ParlaMint-DK_20160426130016	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others.: Bill No. L 176 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on withholding tax and the Law on income taxation of public limited liability companies, etc.) Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 177 (Proposal for a Law on the Labour Market Fund for Posted Workers) and Bill No. L 178 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the posting of employees, the Law on Labour Law and the Law on the Supplementary Pensions of the Labour Market. Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 190 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on clear rules and new proposals for accompanying measures). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 191 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of refugee rights in housing). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Holger K. Nielsen (SF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Magni Arge (T): Motion for a resolution No. Β 192 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the recognition of an independent Palestinian State). Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S) and others: Question No. F 37 (Will the Minister, in view of the fact that the current government in its first year has chosen to cut 10 billion? kr. on research and education up to 2019, explain the government's long-term priorities and ambitions for research and education and explain how this will help to support future growth and prosperity in Denmark?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Mrs Pernille Schnoor has informed me that, from 24 April 2016, she has resigned from the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group and joined the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative. From a member of the Danish Parliament, Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, who is on leave, I have received notification that from 28 April 2016 she can again meet at the Tinget. Per Husted's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130145	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130212	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130241	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130302	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130327	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130342	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 12 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130405	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130427	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 12 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130451	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130522	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 - Acting by a majority? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130539	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130623	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research. We need to calm down on the way out of the Chamber, because we are now in the process of negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426130639	The motion for a resolution aims to allow universities to take over the state-owned buildings that they are currently renting against payment of a share of the property valuation. This means that the universities currently covered by the SEA scheme must be given the opportunity to switch to building property. However, this possibility already exists. Today, the universities have an opportunity to apply for building-related ownership as set out in Section 30 of the University Act. The University Act also describes a process and framework conditions for any transfer. The government doesn't see any reason to change those rules. The current rules include, inter alia, the possibility of an individual assessment of a possible transfer, which must, as a general rule, be cost-neutral for the State. The motion for a resolution envisages a more automatic transitional option, and the proposal to set the price for a share of the property assessment also provides for a discount for universities in connection with the transfer of buildings. The Government wishes to maintain that, in the case of the transfer of buildings, there should be a concrete assessment. The Government cannot agree to an automatic system which does not take due financial account of the specific conditions relating to the university and the building stock which may be involved. Secondly, the government considers that the time has not come to grant substantial discounts in connection with any transfer of buildings. The principle of cost neutrality should therefore be maintained. In the comments, the proposal is also justified by a criticism of the existing management of buildings, i.e. the SEA scheme. To this I would like to point out that last autumn the government adopted a reform of the SEA regime. Danish universities' feedback on the reform has overall been positive. I take this as an expression of the fact that the reform meets a number of the wishes raised by universities. With the reform, universities will be given priority over the renewal and maintenance of buildings and laboratories, which will allow ongoing reinvestment, which will not mean increased rent for universities. The Ministry of Transport and Building has entered into dialogue with universities on the implementation of the reform. Now, in motion for a resolution B 85, the Liberal Alliance has not specifically referred to the University of Copenhagen's own request, but I would like to preface any questions with the following comments: a university, namely the University of Copenhagen, has been dealt with with an application for building autonomy according to the current rules of the University Law. As most people here know, the university has been refused its request. This has been done by reference to an overall economic assessment that for the State as a whole the most appropriate management and management of state-owned educational buildings is achieved by maintaining central management of these buildings. The government has thus made a concrete balance of advantages and disadvantages for the University of Copenhagen and the State as a whole. The Government cannot therefore support the proposal, since the possibility of seeking and processing a request for building ownership has already been included in the university law. The Government does not wish to introduce an automatic transitional option, as proposed in B 85, but wishes to maintain the principle of a specific position on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131026	Since no one has asked for short remarks, we thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131043	Motion for a resolution B 85 on building property lies in the wake of a discussion which has been going on for many years now. However, the discussion is still relevant, because there are, of course, a number of advantages for universities if they achieve building-related ownership. I think most people in the debate will recognize that. The arguments are very much based on whether universities will then be able to make more long-term and therefore better economic priorities if they own the buildings and thus lend them. Similarly, if the authorities are not to be involved to the same degree as is the case today, some bureaucracy will certainly be removed in the ongoing renovation. The Socialists, of course, listen when universities say that this issue is of great importance to their ability to undertake their research and teaching efforts. We are also prepared to discuss the question of ownership thoroughly. The Socialists believe that such a discussion should take place between the parties, and this must be done on a proper and very enlightened basis. I have to say that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance does not respond to that wish in this case. It would be irresponsible to take a decision against this background, since the resolution does not provide any calculations on the consequences in either the short or the long term. That is why I believe that the discussion, if it is to be taken, must be taken under the authority of the Ministry. Now we all heard that the Minister clearly rejected the idea that there should even be a building property for the University of Copenhagen as a concrete example I understood in the Minister's speech and they have also been refused the application which had been submitted. But there are, of course, both economic and training- and research-related consequences of these situations. In other words, if you want to support the intention behind this specific proposal that we are discussing today, you do not know what you are saying in favour of. So this is not an optimal starting point. If the Minister wishes to call a debate on the matter, the Socialists will of course be happy to come up and discuss it. In that case, I would also expect that a discussion could, of course, be held on a sufficiently enlightened basis. But it is the government that has the ball on this issue and the Socialists do not support the resolution. However, I would like to add one comment in relation to the motivation behind the proposal by the proposers. One can of course read in the comments to the motion for a resolution that the aim is to ensure that universities can spend more money on research and education, as well as to support universities' long-term economic priorities. These are all positive intentions, I think, but I would just like to remind you that the proposers, together with the rest of the blue bloc, are behind a financial law that swings the green harvester over universities, with the result that billions are being cut on research and education. This does not create better opportunities to give long-term priority, and that, of course, also means cuts in research and education, with great consequences for quality. So this is a call to start with its own billion savings on education and research when you present your otherwise good intentions to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131358	No brief comments have been asked, so we thank Mrs Mette Reissmann and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131415	Thank you. It was of course interesting to hear the Minister's speech with the reference to the fact that the university law described an opportunity to have ownership of its buildings, and the procedural and framework conditions have been described, as the Minister also says. After all, this is a discussion that we have had over several years and when, among other things, we have had. Reference is made to the fact that the University of Copenhagen has asked for ownership, I would say that this is something they did as far back as February 2013. There has been a very long process, and we have heard a lot of things along the way. A year ago, back in 2014, I asked the then minister about the status of KU's wish for ownership, and the answer at that time was: There is an internal process going on in the government around the University of Copenhagen's request for building roads. It is a large and complex matter which deals with the transfer of assets for many billions. It is therefore important to clarify all aspects and consequences. I expect that the University of Copenhagen will soon be able to receive feedback. It was then in May 2014. This autumn, in November, there was a decision where the KU received a feedback. And then I had to expect that a thorough analysis had been made, that one had looked at buildings, that one had looked at possibilities for how it could be done, so that one could set up a model for how this property could actually be established. But what is it that the University of Copenhagen responds to their application? You start by stating that you have decided to reject the request. Then the Minister writes: it has been a longer process that started under the previous government. The government has carefully weighed the advantages and disadvantages of both the State and the University of Copenhagen on building roads. It is assessed that the state as a whole will achieve the most appropriate governance and management of state property activities by maintaining a central management of the property portfolio, and therefore the University of Copenhagen will not receive an offer for the transfer of state buildings. As a background to that letter, reference has been made to a report which has looked at the University of Copenhagen, and when you look at that report, it is absolutely central that is described there that the University of Copenhagen does not have the capacity to manage construction projects that you need to have, if you are to have self-control and, for example, if you are to have it. to manage large new buildings. Why don't you have it on KU? Well, I guess you don't have that because you don't have that job today. The report then also says that it will of course be possible to build up, but that it will take some time. Then it just puzzles me when it comes to such an overall assessment that the KU should not be allowed to have its own, why it should then take 21⁄2 years to make that consideration. On the way, we've heard different things about looking at one and looking at the other, and then you end up with this very short description. I shall not say what an offer of ownership for the KU should look like and what conditions it should be, but I must admit that in the course of the process I have had an expectation that this would end up in a model. Then it might be that the KU was presented with something that they could not agree to. It is quite another thing. And there could also be some requirements that they had to meet. There could be a lot of models. It is said that there is actually a paragraph that allows for self-determination, but when it comes to the matter, you just make a concrete assessment of the individual place that you cannot. In fact, I do not think that is a decent thing to do. Nor do I think that you are dragging it out in the way you have actually done. I've got too much myself. a year ago, a proposal that is very similar to what the Liberal Alliance has presented today, and that was specifically about the KU at that time, because they were the ones that took place. Now this is about giving all universities that opportunity, and we think they should have that. Then you have to discuss the conditions and see if that is what the universities want. But that they should have the opportunity, we in the Danish People's Party fully agree, so that is why we naturally support the Liberal Alliance's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131843	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131849	The rapporteur describes a very long course of action in which there seems to have been little procedure. Can the rapporteur be tempted to elaborate a little more on what might have been the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131909	It's hard to elaborate on that very much, because I don't know. But you can have the feeling that there is not much desire to complete this building road, in that the process has been dragging out as long and has given the very brief result that has been gained from it. When the Social Democrats' rapporteur earlier refers to the fact that we need to discuss this here, we need an enlightened basis on which to do so, I am in complete agreement. What one might, of course, wish came out of it today was that the material I would expect from the Ministry as the basis for this decision could come to the knowledge of the committee. Then we could have a good discussion about what is a hoax and facts in this and how we move on properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426131957	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132007	Thank you for the floor. Normally, I would like to begin by describing the resolution, but we have come up with a good idea of that. Like my Socialist colleague, I would like to start by saying that I think, as a matter of fact, that the basic ideas contained in the motion for a resolution to reduce the costs of spending money on buildings and administration in order to spend more money on the core task are actually quite sympathetic. I think that is important to start by saying that. Having said that, I am afraid I must follow suit and, like the Minister, announce that my party, the Left, unfortunately cannot support the motion for a resolution. As I have said, the possibility of self-determination through section 30 is already enshrined in the University Act, and I find it difficult to see that what is depicted in the motion for a resolution updates the need to amend the current rules. I also think it is important to consider that last autumn the government adopted a reform of the state's property administration and the special scheme it covers. The feedback from the country's universities and learning environments has thus been quite positive. Perhaps our position would have been different if the reports that had come back had been deeply critical, and the dialogue between the administration, politicians and universities had taken place in a more negative and problematic tone, but that is not the impression I am left with. On the contrary, I have the impression that the reform has worked sensibly and that universities are working with satisfaction on what has been agreed. Then, of course, we can discuss the conditions under which universities can take over the buildings they rent today. The current special scheme allows you to reduce your costs through flexibility and thus actually spend more money on the core task of research and training. I think that is satisfactory, but I would also like to see a wider dialogue if it is the case that the larger conciliation group wants us to have a debate. I do not think, however, that the motion for a resolution is enough to support it and, at the same time, I see the possibility of applying today for self-determination as being quite positive. Unfortunately, I am not so well informed, and it is a pity to have to acknowledge it from Parliament's platform as DF's rapporteur, but it must sometimes be so. In detail, I have not been involved in the bureaucratic process behind the decision not to give the buildings of the University of Copenhagen ownership. It is just to anticipate some of the questions I could potentially imagine that rapporteurs from LA and DF might be able to ask. However, I would like to conclude by saying that the Left believes that the current rules in this area are very well aligned, which is why, unfortunately, we cannot support LA's motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132307	This gave rise to a few brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132313	Thank you. President. - I call the rapporteur. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, says that universities need to spend more money on their core tasks, which are research and education. This is fine in line with the statements of the former Minister for Research and Education, Esben Lunde Larsens, in February 2015, who says precisely that the purpose of the universities is to create the best possible research and education. What does that mean, then, is that the Left Government has saved 3.3 billion? kr. in higher education, 1.4 billion. kr. on research? Could the rapporteur elaborate on this? In other words, how does it relate to the fact that one should be able to focus more on one's core tasks, while at the same time being slaughtered at the economic level?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132359	Thank you. A few brief facts for the debate are that if you look at the funds spent on research from 2005 until today, there is an increase of as much as 44 per cent. I think that is quite a good thing, and it shows something about the research effort. At the same time, the rapporteur also knows that the money we spend on research is a direct consequence of our GDP, and if the former government's reform Mok had now proved successful, it could be that we did not have GDP growth today, which is close to being in a coma and inspiring a need for further reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132436	I would like to know what is behind the fact that, within a period shorter than a year, the Left has carried out a 180-degree forestation on this very question, self or not, and let us just take the University of Copenhagen. When the former Minister for Research and Education sat as rapporteur in the last session, he felt that the only way to optimise research and education was to become self-serving, and now the current government, with the Minister in the lead, rejects the idea of self-determination. So, what's with this turnaround?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132513	First of all, I would like to say that we are not against self-determination. In my remarks and in my speech, I refer to the possibility of doing so in Section 30 of the University Act. In order to follow up on this from the past, I am well aware that it is not always well received in the educational environment that efficiency needs to be made more effective. After all, I've been visiting reality for the last eight months, where I've been training director at Niels Brock. This gave me the opportunity to make savings of 2% without compromising quality. Then you can discuss how long you can do it. I would just like to point out that there are good opportunities to spend our money smarter. I hope that the rapporteur will also acknowledge this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132549	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132552	In fact, I had taken an interest in asking the Minister earlier, but since the rapporteur is a party colleague with the Minister, the rapporteur is asked the question to the Minister instead. It is true that the university law as it stands allows for a concrete assessment. But the University of Copenhagen, which is the oldest university in Denmark and founded in 1479, is in the situation that you have some very old buildings. How is there even going to be a property assessment of buildings as old as many of those at the University of Copenhagen are, if you are going to move on with the law as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132629	I actually assumed that it was a compliment that the rapporteur thought I could reply on behalf of the Minister. That flattery is then translated into a certain nervousness, since the rapporteur is now challenging me on property valuation techniques. Unfortunately, I'm not an authorized real estate agent, and I don't have much insight into how to assess property either. But it is my impression, if we look across the university world, that we are actually happy with the system that exists today. I have not received any representations from universities to the effect that the reform of the SEA scheme I mentioned earlier has been unfavorable; that one is dissatisfied with the parameters set out or that one feels otherwise ill-treated. I understand that in the case of the University of Copenhagen there are some criteria that mean that this is not granted. On the other hand, Mr President, I also recognise that problem. Henrik Dahl brings to squares, namely that especially KU as the country's oldest university will have some challenges in this account. And these are challenges that I really think we should look at together. Unfortunately, I have not brought with me a final set of solutions that I can present on the platform, but we can discuss it further afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132737	The University of Copenhagen feels placed in a slightly asymmetrical situation as the weak party when it comes to assessing these very old buildings and looking for some guidelines on what to do to get on with your case. Can the rapporteur accept that the university feels placed in a somewhat unfair situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132802	Yes, and I would actually go so far as to say that my experience of the education sector in general gives rise to thoughts on how to reduce the pressure that our educational institutions can sometimes find themselves in. We are in a situation where there is less money, there is a demand for higher quality, and at the same time there is a certain amount of bureaucracy and sometimes also a need for more transparency. So I actually understand the rapporteur's comments very well and accept the premise in part. But I would also like to conclude by saying that I believe that the legislation we have today works quite excellently. I understand, of course, that when an application is rejected it can give rise to both frowns and dissatisfaction. But it is my impression that this has been done on objective criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132838	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132843	Thank you. The rapporteur says several times that there is a possibility of building roads written into the law. Then we have had the course that has been going on around the University of Copenhagen to turn around, and in the end the rapporteur also says that there must be some criteria behind it. In view of the decision that has been sent to the University of Copenhagen, does the rapporteur really believe that there has been an opportunity for self-determination, or has it been more a show process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132918	It has certainly not been a show process. The government has rejected Copenhagen University's request for concrete ownership on the basis of a balance of advantages and disadvantages, both for the university and for the state as a whole. That's what's behind it. That's the assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132935	Yes, I can read that the pros and cons have been looked at. But has it been made clear so that one can say: the advantages and disadvantages of the University of Copenhagen, the advantages and disadvantages of the state? Have they been presented anywhere? Is that some we can see? Is it some that the rapporteur is aware of so that it can be said that there are grounds for making this decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426132957	As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party knows very well, I am not the rapporteur of the Left who has dealt with the de facto case. That would also give me a great deal of extra work. I can only repeat what I said earlier, and I sense that the rapporteur finds this unsatisfactory. I have the impression that this procedure has been carried out on clear, objective criteria. There is no imbalance in relation to anything other than what is written in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133023	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133034	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we in the Enhedslist cannot support the resolution. However, I would like to say that it is good to see that the Liberal Alliance is prepared to raise more money for research and teaching, as the comments on the motion for a resolution shows, because that must mean that there is a lack of money in this area, and we in the Enhedslist fully agree with that. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to propose to the Liberal Alliance that they fight against the planned savings in education and research in this autumn's budget negotiations. At the same time, I have to say that I do not fully understand the purpose of this particular proposal, because it is already possible for universities to take over the buildings if they wish to do so in Section 30 of the University Act. That is why I would like the Liberal Alliance to clarify in this debate how this proposal would mean savings for universities and how it would actually change anything compared to now. Because we can agree so far that we certainly do not want state funds to be spent on inappropriate bureaucracy. As I read the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance, it is with a desire for increased privatisation. Of course, we cannot support this in the Enhedslisten. We have a problem in principle with increasing the ownership and ownership processes, as we see it as part of the privatisation process and the marketing of the education system. It is a process which in turn often leads to the Folketing disclaiming part of the responsibility and referring to the self-determination, self-determination and own boards of the universities when it comes to quality and the economy. We do not want any more of this disclaimer of responsibility. On the contrary, we believe that we must take responsibility for universities, including their economy. We agree that the economy in the universities is bad, but we do not believe that the solution lies in allowing universities to mortgage or buy buildings in order to save the economy in the short term. I would also like to say that, with the savings made by the Finance Act this autumn, we have seen that a university such as this one has been able to see. Roskilde University has been able to cancel some of the rented buildings easily. It was a saving exercise that we would have preferred to have avoided, but it was nevertheless easier than it would have been if they had owned the buildings. We want to participate in a debate and debate on how to ease the bureaucracy of universities, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133317	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133321	That would be all, too harsh to say, that the state is acting as a resident shark in relation to universities, so of course I will not do that. But the state is doing a very good job in relation to the universities, and better business could probably be done by entering with others. What is the rapporteur's objection in principle to giving universities the opportunity to act economically rationally in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133351	First of all, I would like to sign off on the fact that the Liberal Alliance does not support housing speculation. We do not think that the state should participate in this either, but we just think it is important that universities are our joint responsibility and that we therefore have to provide a framework for universities that will enable them to act sensibly. And in our view, it would not make sense for universities, for example. had to sell buildings to afford their operations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133420	The question is more of a different one: what is the fundamental objection of the rapporteur to the abandonment of leases which are very unfavorable for universities and then enter into agreements with some landlords who could rent buildings cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133439	The disadvantage would be that it is a responsibility on the part of the Folketing. We would be willing to go in and see if we could renegotiate rental contracts if there are some unfavourable leases compared to universities. But then it is a question of renegotiating them, not of leaving it to the free market forces.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133459	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133509	Thank you. First of all, I regret that I do not look so nice today. I've been out on a little run and stumbled in my running shoes, fallen and got a cut in my face. It was very appropriate with one of the Alternative's t-shirts on which it says Earth calls. That's how you can learn so much from it. As the sweet nurse in the emergency room said, you don't have to take what the earth calls so literally. It's just to explain why I look like that. I haven't been in a fight. To the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance, I should like to begin by saying that the alternative supports the motion for a resolution that universities can take over their own buildings for a payment in the form of a share of the property assessment. We support the whole idea of self-determination in the alternative. One of our classic, one might say, slogans is that we want to set public institutions more free. I know that we at least share some views with the Liberal Alliance. Here we will also improve the ability of universities to have their own buildings. Then there's something in this debate that might somehow be a little hard to understand. There's something about whether we have a section 30. At the same time, we have the KD, which has applied for and received a refusal, and we also hear both the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left say that the reason for the refusal was an overall consideration of the advantages and disadvantages for both the KD and the state. From that point of view, it has been chosen to be a refusal. But one might ask oneself, if there is scope for self-determination, why, in the overall view, the State should also be taken into account. I think that is actually a good question. We believe quite clearly that if you as a university go in and consider that you have liquidity and have the will and the opportunity to take over the buildings that you teach and research, it must be the university's own responsibility to live up to it. That is why we think it is, in fact, a very fine resolution tabled here by the Liberal Alliance. Finally, I would like to mention that last week I and the Minister were at the rector's dinner at the University of Copenhagen, funny enough. I got to sit next to the administrative director of the university. We came to talk about this resolution because we knew it was going to be discussed this week. He said something else that I thought was quite interesting. Of course, I asked about their position and he said that, of course, they would like to see it easier for them to take over the buildings, because, as he says, it is also about the possibility of attracting foreign researchers. For them, it is actually important to have the ownership or ownership of own buildings in order to be able to plan in the long term how to invest in them, which you want to use, etc. It means a lot to attract foreign researchers to Denmark that you have the security. In fact, I was impressed. That is also one of the reasons why we have chosen to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133812	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133821	We are discussing, as has been said a few times today, whether we should give the universities building property. I would like to start by saying that this is a very good idea from the radical side. Firstly, as the proposal also says, there is currently a great deal of duplication of administration, partly because we believe that universities can find a way of doing this. Some people have been very concerned that money from the buildings would be transferred to research and education and that it could lead to worn-out buildings or defaults. I just have to say that we believe that the high schools can find out so that the universities too can find out about building property. I would also like to say that it is good for them to be free to manage this part themselves too, and it is good not to have double management, and so it is also at a time when the government, together with the Liberal Alliance, has chosen to cut very much on education and research. Then we, those of us who do not support cutting education and research, must try to be constructive in other ways and see how we can help universities achieve a better economy. And this is certainly a place where I could hope that there could be a majority bypassing the government, which could then give the universities some more freedom and give them some opportunities to make the economy itself more coherent so that the quality of research and education can be raised. So in the end it would not matter if less money were spent on buildings and more on research and training as a result of building ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426133957	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Jacob Mark from SF now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134011	Thank you. The motion for a resolution aims to allow universities to take over the state-owned buildings they are renting today against the payment of a share of the property valuation. However, the universities already have that possibility under the University Act today, which is why we in the SF cannot support the resolution. The University Act describes both the process and the conditions for any transfer, and so we simply see no reason why we should adopt this resolution and change the rules at this stage. We also note the comments made by the Minister on the new SEA scheme, which has actually tried to improve conditions for universities, and also the fact that Danish universities have actually welcomed the reform of the SEA scheme. Several people from up here have made it sound like this is a model to help universities financially. I can be a little worried, because if the argument for giving the buildings free is to help them out of the bad economic situation, I would say that it does not work as a viable solution to provide better quality in education, and then I basically feel that if the Liberal Alliance really wants to help universities, they can vote against the government and drop the re-priority contribution in universities, because I believe that makes a much greater difference than the fact that universities are going to be better able to mortgage their buildings perhaps. But is it sustainable in the long term? I can be doubtful about that. Nor do I have anything in principle against self-determination, nor do the SF, and therefore I am glad that there is the legal basis for doing so. That is why we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134203	There is one brief comment from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134206	The University of Copenhagen is of the opinion that the state rents on some very, very unfavourable conditions, and therefore wants some what to say about more favorable terms for itself. What is the rapporteur's position on the assertion of the very unfavourable conditions on which it feels obliged to enter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134231	I think that is actually an exciting discussion. I have heard the Minister say that Danish universities have actually praised the new SEA scheme, and I think that could be followed up by the rapporteurs too. I also know that a large surplus is being pulled out to the Danish state on the basis of the SEA scheme, and I myself have been in question, because that money could have been spent on education and research. So if the rapporteur asks whether I want to take part in looking at the SEA scheme and whether it can be done differently, then we would like to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134303	It is noted with great pleasure. That then leads me on to the next: e.g. The University of Copenhagen has also mentioned that the depreciation rules are very, very unfavorable because there can actually be no depreciation of the buildings, and this puts the university in a very difficult situation in terms of renewing the building stock. Is this also something that SF might be able to take a closer look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134329	Now, as has also been mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, it was a very brief justification for refusing the self-determination given to the KU. So if the KU has some ideas or some perceptions of what they are facing of problems, then I think we can actually take that dialogue forward-looking, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134345	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Anders Johansson, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134355	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Liberal Alliance very much for raising this debate, because it is both important and good. We Conservatives are convinced that self-determination contributes to greater responsibility. We are also concerned to ensure the best possible framework for our universities and their economy, and therefore we support the government's investigation and submission of proposals for models of ownership. Selvej will provide a number of new opportunities for universities to reduce investment and operation, and when responsibility for budgets and decisions is brought together in one place, precisely in the individual educational institutions, everything else will provide less trouble and bureaucracy and better opportunities to develop good solutions that fit into the operation of universities. At the universities, management and employees know the daily challenges and needs, and they are also the ones who can see the possibilities, so that the management itself strengthens its management, because the responsibility is clearly unified and ensures that the financial incentives point in the right direction. Selvevej also offers new degrees of freedom and the possibility of prioritising, so, in principle, we Conservatives are naturally happy with the very nature of the matter. That is why I think it is important for us to have a thorough analysis of the facts and opportunities, and above all the economic side, because it is enough here that we Conservatives have the greatest reservations about the resolution, because when the text simply says that universities will be able to take over buildings against payment of a share of the property assessment, what exactly is the point of the term'share'? We need to clarify that. The Conservative People's Party supports the overall intentions of the resolution, but we want the government to present different options for economic models and until they are available we will wait for a final model of self-sufficiency. However, I would like to thank LA for raising an important debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134548	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134603	Margaret Thatcher considered the TV series... Yes Minister... as a documentary series. This is undoubtedly due to her experience with officials who recalled one of the main characters of the series, Sir Humphrey Appleby. But in Denmark we can also participate. We have our own Sir Humphreys, who are also able to come up with extremely elegant little tricks. The state wants to be seen as a generous sponsor of the research, it wants to be seen as a state that meets the Barcelona objective, but the state also wants to save, and therefore rents out the buildings and demands an overpayment from the universities that go back into the treasury. Now the state has both respected the Barcelona objective and saved a lot of money. I know that the Sir Humphrey Prize does not exist, but if there was a Sir Humphrey Prize for creative official work, we would have a candidate here. What further takes the method into account for the Sir Humphrey Prize is that with this system we have a very excellent system to give universities opposing interests and play them off against each other. Of course, Sir Humphrey would be proud of that. I have taken note of the reports that have come from the various parties. I can also count, and I can hear what has been said so far. I am very much looking forward to the committee reading now, because perhaps what could come out of it, in addition to the general good work being done in the service of the information, might be that there would be a clarification of how the existing rules should actually be applied, so that the universities who wish to use the existing rules would be better able in future to earn a positive treatment and earn the benefit of the rules as they exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134812	Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134816	Thank you. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I generally welcome the ideas behind the rapporteur's formulation of the resolution. As far as the Sir Humphrey Prize is concerned, I would like to give points for the creative approach, but I also hope that we can agree to report the house by at least in the blue block. We can, of course, discuss this further. My specific question to the rapporteur must be: if we now imagined that we were going ahead with the legislation, what percentage of various assessments would the rapporteur think it was reasonable for the KU and other universities to take over buildings from then on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134853	As far as the University of Copenhagen is concerned, this is a very difficult discussion, because we are dealing with some historic buildings, and it would not be possible in practice to implement it here without the Danish Cultural Authority and other relevant authorities also being involved in it. Where there is a will, there is usually a way, and the decisive thing at this stage is the very simplification of the rules that will be and the very possibility that will be for the university to act also more professionally as a building owner and building manager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134929	If I now take the liberty of challenging the rapporteur on the more economic side of the matter, this is because the motion for a resolution has not informed Parliament of the economic consequences, and that is also the reason why every part of the reservation we take note of in the Left comes from. I do not think we are getting any closer to that, but we must acknowledge that it is at least an outstanding issue in the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426134957	Well, that is a good starting point for sensible committee work and for us to have a sensible second reading of the proposal. Of course, the crucial thing, and this may bear a little emphasis on repetition, is that when you are dealing with protected and historic buildings, it is a very difficult matter at all to price them, because protected and historic buildings are not normally a commodity in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426135021	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426135036	The debate is open. Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426135056	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution to set up an independent institution in the field of alternative treatment to ensure research and dissemination of knowledge on alternative treatment and natural medicine. The reason for the proposal is that an increasing number of Danes are using alternative treatment. From this point of view, the SF's proposal to focus more on alternative treatment is quite fine, and it is an intention that we in the government fully share. However, although I also fully share the intention behind the SF's proposal, I am at the same time a little puzzled by the resolution here today, because if you turn the time back just a little bit, it was precisely with a health minister from the SF in the lead that the then S-R-SF government from January 2013 chose to close down the then ViFAB, the Knowledge and Research Centre for Alternative Treatment. ViFAB was precisely an independent institution aimed at ensuring research into and disseminating knowledge on alternative treatment and natural medicine. But now you can understand that the SF seems to have changed its mind and wants this government to create a new form of ViFAB. Perhaps it is a little strange in itself that the SF is asking a new government to give priority to alternative treatment, after you only cut down on it yourself. Having said that, the SF may also be a little late because, as I think it is also SF known, the government, together with the other parties behind the Finance Act, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, has already strengthened the area of alternative treatment. We have set aside 5 million in the Finance Act. kr. of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment; of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment; of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment; of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment; of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment; of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment, out of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment, out of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment, out of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment, out of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment, out of the 5 million ECU for alternative treatment, out of the 5 million ECU for The pool focuses on bridge-building between the treatment in the established healthcare system and alternative treatment methods, which is why it can be sought by patient associations that enter into partnerships with research institutions, established health services, trade associations for alternative practitioners, RAB-registered practitioners or others. This in itself contrasts with the previous government, which, as I said, with a minister of health from the SF, removed the funds allocated to research into alternative treatment. The current government gives priority to refocusing on research in alternative treatment. We have done this with the 2016 Finance Act and, in addition to research, the remaining part of the 5 million will. kr., i.e. 1 million. kr., be used for more information and communication about alternative treatment. In 2016, the Board of Patient Safety, which serves the Council for Alternative Treatment, holds a series of conferences, workshops and information meetings for both alternative practitioners and authorised healthcare professionals to raise awareness across the board. The Council's website will also be upgraded with a number of professional contributions on alternative treatment, and citizens will be able to go to the Council's website and search for registered alternative practitioners near their place of residence, and at the same time, through leaflets and on social media, will inform citizens about, among other things: The RAB scheme and means of redress. Overall, it is my expectation that the 5 million will be spent. kr. will be able to achieve increased research-based knowledge on alternative treatment, and at the same time we will support bridge building and partnerships between the established healthcare system and the research environment, patient associations and alternative practitioners, and that is what is needed. Finally, the funds will also help to raise awareness between alternative practitioners and authorised health professionals and to improve the dress of the population in relation to their opportunities and rights when using alternative treatment. Then, in the motion for a resolution, the proposers mention that an independent alternative treatment institution can help to strengthen patients' safety when using alternative treatment methods. When you read the motion for a resolution, you can almost get the impression that it is a little uncertain for patients today to take advantage of alternative treatment options. I do not think I quite share the view expressed in the motion for a resolution, but that is perhaps not quite the case with the SF, because the safety of patients is already being dealt with within the current framework. As the whole parliament is aware, we have the so-called RAB system, which is an industry-managed registration system, where the purpose is precisely to strengthen the safety of Danes when they use alternative treatment. When the patient chooses a RAB practitioner, he or she can be sure that the treatment provider meets a number of requirements including: training, ethics and good clinical practice, and at the same time the patient, the citizen, has the right to complain about a RAB practitioner of the association that has registered the practitioner. And even though the government has now set aside 5 million. kr. In the case of alternative treatment, that does not mean that nothing is happening today in relation to alternative treatment. The Danish Health Authority states that alternative treatment is part of the Danish Agency's professional work on national clinical guidelines. So far, alternative treatment is included in five clinical guidelines, including: with focus on acupuncture, climate therapy and mindfulness. In addition, we also have the Danish Health Authority's Board for Alternative Treatment, which performs a central role in providing knowledge about alternative treatment to citizens, patients and health professionals. At the same time, the Council is the main central cooperation forum between alternative practitioners and the relevant authorities. It also involves the important task of providing a bridge between alternative treatment and the more established health system; a bridge building which the government considers to be central to strengthening alternative treatment for the benefit of patients. Finally, there is the economic part of SF's proposal. Here the SF is proposing that the 5 million already earmarked for the 2016 Finance Act should be transferred to the independent institution you want to set up as a start. It has to be said that, in 2016, the funds have already been used, even though the SF is now proposing to spend money that has not been taken responsibility for helping to find it. At the same time, SF forgets to mention or point out from which to get the money to run the independent institution after 2016. So, all in all, we have to understand that the proposal is unfunded. Finally, let me give a brief summary: in the government we acknowledge the intention of the SF's proposal to strengthen the area of alternative treatment. That is also why we have prioritised funding for the area through the Finance Act for 2016. At the same time, we consider that the safety of patients in relation to alternative treatment is already adequately maintained today; this is done, among other things. through the RAB scheme and through the work in general in the Danish Agency for Patient Safety and the Danish Health Authority. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426135911	Since no brief remarks have been asked, we thank the Minister and go to the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426135925	Thank you. For the Socialists, it is absolutely essential that citizens and patients who wish to use alternative treatment receive information, information on a very factual basis, so that they can make the right decisions. Many Danish citizens use alternative treatment, and there are many groupings within the hat or umbrella of alternative treatment. Now SF is proposing to create an objective knowledge centre to be located outside the Danish Health Authority. But let me just sum up what the history is: yes, that is, the former knowledge centre for alternative treatment called ViFAB started in 1998 and it was closed per year. 1 January 2013. I could have asked the Minister for Health if it was not true that it was the former bourgeois government which had decided on very drastic savings under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. Then we got a change of government, but then the money had been taken away from the budgets, and it was then the Social Democrat-led government that came in 2011 that had to ensure the savings that had been decided. This included the fact that VIFAB had to be closed down in order to make the economy coherent. What was then done was that central parts of what was ViFAB's function were transferred to the Danish Health Authority, among other things. to operate and update the website which ensures a very high level of accessibility and up-to-dateness in the field. It is also important, as the Minister for Health has already mentioned, that initiatives have been taken to strengthen the area. We also think that this is right from the Socialist side, both in terms of getting research started in this area, but also because it is at least as important to ensure that dissemination takes place at a very high level. I want to make it clear that we want Danish citizens and patients to be informed and informed on the best possible basis with the greatest possible objectivity. That is why I would also like to say that if we knew that setting up an independent body, institute, centre was the right way to go, then perhaps I could stand here in the Chair and nod for the Socialists and support the proposal, but this is based on too many assumptions. That is why I would suggest that we discuss it in the committee's work towards the second and third readings, and I would certainly like to make the suggestion that the Minister for Health should ensure that an evaluation of the current system is carried out so that we can find out how it works today. Because we know that it is not always the best thing to roll things back to what things were before. I believe, and the Socialists believe, that we should have an evaluation, because no evaluation has been carried out since it closed at the beginning of 2013, in addition to what the Minister has replied to in some questions, namely that there has been an ongoing evaluation. So the Socialists do not support the resolution as it stands here, but support the idea that patients and citizens must have the best possible, the most objective information and information in order to make the right choices. That is why we will be working very constructively towards what may prove to be the result of an evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140309	Thank you to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140317	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, when we saw this proposal, it gave us a little gibberish. We actually thought it was a joke, but we understood that you meant it. We think that is a bit tragic, and we do not really know whether we should laugh at it. The story is that Dansk Folkeparti made proposals to establish ViFAB, Knowledge and Research Centre for Alternative Treatment. There was a majority in favour of this and ViFAB became a reality in 2000. For Dansk Folkeparti it has always been important to focus on the alternative, as many Danes resort to alternative treatment as well as natural medicine. ViFAB was an independent institution under the Minister of Health, which was based in Aarhus and had six employees. The Centre had, overall, two tasks. It should collect and disseminate knowledge about alternative treatment and support new Danish research. During the years, ViFAB supported several different types of research in alternative treatment, including: impact studies, case studies, statistical surveys, etc. In total, ViFAB supported 77 research projects for a total amount of 28,5 million. kr. in the period 2001-2012. We would have liked ViFAB to have been enlarged and that there had been an investigation into how we could do a real improvement. Unfortunately, this is where the tragic thing comes in, namely that the SF came into government and a SF health minister decided to shut down ViFAB, which happened. Since then, nothing has happened in relation to research into alternative treatment, which we in DF are very sorry about. Indeed, we would very much like to have raised this area just as we did when we established the RAB system, Registered Alternative Processing. But unfortunately, the Red Government with the SF at its head laid down everything around that research. Fortunately, with a new government, we had 5 million set aside. kr. for research into alternative treatment • it's not much, but it's a start. The comical thing about SF's proposal is that as good socialists they will spend others' money. The SF's proposal is to spend the 5 million. kr., which DF together with the government had been assigned to establish a center. Yeah, we're shaking our heads. In the Finance Bill, DF was allocated these 5 million. kr. to a pool to strengthen the Danish Health Authority's advice on alternative treatment. The pool is targeted research projects in the field of alternative treatment, partnerships with patient associations and increased dissemination, including through websites and conferences. The funds consist of a grant pool of 4 million. kr. for research and the like in alternative treatment and 1 million. kr. for increased dissemination, including: via websites and other. The applicant circle consists of patient associations which enter into partnerships with research institutes in the established health services, trade associations and alternative practitioners, RAB-registered practitioners, etc. There is a requirement that representatives of both the established health system and alternative practitioners should be included in the project. The pool has been opened up and it is being implemented, so this suggestion to spend the 5 million. kr. is like missed at this time. But we are willing to go together another time to increase the economy to the alternative, because in the Danish People's Party we would like the alternative treatments to have a much greater place in health care. However, as I have said, we cannot support this proposal, nor can we really see that there is any direction on how to operate a centre forward-looking. So the Danish People's Party says no to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140716	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140720	I find it a little embarrassing to hear the Danish People's Party refer to others' proposals as a joke. I actually take a little exception to that. So let us now deal with the substance of this proposal, and the rapporteur still has to deal with that. We recognise that there is a need for research into alternative treatment, and that was the starting point for this. I am fully aware of what happened, which Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen mentioned earlier that the savings decided by a former bourgeois government, supported by the Danish People's Party, resulted in a number of savings in the public administration. Then you can welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party will set aside 5 million. kr. in the Finance Act. I think that is a good thing. If you couldn't influence other places, it's a good thing you've got a little influence here. But it is only in 2016, and that is why we in the SF are interested in looking at what we can do to actually get some research in this area, and that is what this proposal is about. I still have the merit of hearing what the rapporteur thinks about this. Will the rapporteur support the intentions of strengthening research into alternative treatment and possibly setting up an independent body? It's basically quite simple. That is what we have to deal with today, and not all sorts of hoaxes about everything else. And to call other people's proposals a joke I think one should refrain from in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140835	As I also said in my speech, the alternative treatment DF is very much at heart, which is why ViFAB was also a heartchild for the Danish People's Party when it was established in Aarhus. It is true that there will not be funding for this in the next few years, and therefore we cannot understand why the SF has now put forward this proposal. Then there may be a lot of discussion about what happened in the previous government and the government before it, but one cannot escape the fact that it was a minister of health from the SF who thought it was exactly in this area that was going to be saved. And the Danish People's Party may wonder. But we do not think that this proposal has any time on earth either. Firstly, as I also said, the pool is being put into effect and that is to say, it is a post office too late and, secondly, the SF's proposal does not specify funding for the further operation of a possible centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140939	When this proposal was put forward, the funds available under the Finance Act had not been implemented. I think the rapporteur is also aware of this. I understand that this is something you want to avoid. But what I actually asked about before, and which the rapporteur is again skilfully trying to avoid, is: Does the Danish People's Party support the creation of an independent institute to research alternative medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426140958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141000	I also said in my speech that the questioner would have heard if he had listened to the fact that now 5 million have been set aside. kr. for research into alternative treatment. It's not much, but it's a start. And that suggests, of course, that if there is money for it and they can be found in a financial bill debate forward-looking, we would like more money to be spent in the alternative area of health care. We can only see how this will be achieved if there is either a legislative proposal or a motion for a resolution. But basically it has to be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141032	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141043	Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing first with B 67, draft parliamentary resolution on the creation of an independent institution to ensure research into and disseminate knowledge on alternative treatment and natural medicine. The proposal has been tabled by the Socialist People's Party. The motion for a resolution places particular emphasis on the safety of patients and the fact that more and more Danes are seeking alternative treatment methods. On the Left side, we agree so far with the Socialist People's Party that more and more people choose to take advantage of alternative treatments or alternative treatments, and that it is therefore quite natural that, as a result, we, too, from a political point of view, increase our attention to the field and focus on both patient safety and research. The last 25 years have seen a marked increase in the use of alternative treatments among patients, also in Danish hospitals, and many rehabilitation institutions and treatment sites for drug abuse use alternative treatment. For us in the Left, patient safety is crucial, whether you choose a traditional or alternative treatment. It should be safe to approach a public hospital, and there should be the possibility that alternative treatment can also be sought with security. The RAB system is a good example of how to use, or patient with a desire to be safe, for example, that the treatment provider meets the regulatory requirements, which include: provided for training and good clinical practice, can be accommodated. In addition, there are already a number of clinical guidelines under the auspices of the Danish Health Authority which include alternative treatment. That is, for example, the case. within acupuncture and mindfulness. The motion for a resolution proposes, in addition to disseminating knowledge, the creation of an independent institution for alternative treatment and natural medicine. As I mentioned earlier, we in the Left share the ambition that we should strengthen the area of alternative treatment. Therefore, together with the other blue parties, we set aside 5 million with the 2016 Finance Act. kr. to strengthen the Danish Health Authority's advice on alternative treatment. The funds are intended to strengthen the Council and to further focus on the area of alternative treatment. The appropriation was therefore allocated totalling 1 million. kr. I would like to point out to the House that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. can organise conferences and can have an increased digital focus. I shall not fail to wonder why the proposers consider it necessary to have an independent institution when today we have both an economic focus through the Finance Act, but also a legislative focus on the safety of alternative treatment via the RAB and the research carried out at the Rigshospitalet's Cochrane Center and on the interdisciplinary evaluation studies on complementary and alternative treatments at the University of Southern Denmark. But what I am most puzzled about is the fact that SF is tabling a resolution when we all know that it was the SF that was in charge of shutting down ViFAB or the Knowledge and Research Centre for Alternative Treatment, as it was called. Allow me to remind you of what SF's then Minister for Health and Prevention, Astrid Krag, said in a consultation on 17 April 2012 about the background to the decommissioning of ViFAB. At the hearing the Minister said the following and I quote: to transfer ViFAB's dissemination function to the Danish Health Authority, we collect all functions related to alternative treatment in one place. The Danish Health Authority is the top health professional authority in Denmark, and a collection of all functions related to alternative treatment will, in my opinion, help to ensure that there is a bridge between alternative practitioners and health professionals to a greater extent than today. It is therefore surprising that SF has now turned on a plate and sees the need for an independent institution when SF's former Minister for Health and Prevention was himself in charge of dismantling ViFAB a few years ago. Last but not least, I must not fail to mention that the proposal is unfunded, because although the comments point to funds from the Finance Act for 2016, no funds have been identified for the operation of an independent institution after 2016. And if I don't remember quite wrong, I think it was also the former Minister for Health and Prevention, Astrid Krag of the SF, who said that she didn't have access to a money tree in the backyard. As the resolution is unfunded, I must conclude that this is still the case for the SF. The left cannot support the motion for a resolution with the comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141523	A brief comment was made by Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141526	I'm all for the history. I don't really doubt that much. I agree very much with what the rapporteur said at the time about the health minister, namely that it was about looking at whether a bridge could be built between the then ViFAB and the Health Authority. I would like to conclude today, in all due respect to this resolution, that I do not think that I have succeeded in doing so enough, and I therefore believe that it should also be said that if things have not succeeded, as they were supposed to, or hoped for, they would, then we must also look at what we intend to do. I would really like to ask the rapporteur that. Does the rapporteur think it has been possible to establish a coordination and to use the words of the then Minister • bridge the gap between the alternative treatment and the established system in relation to the Health Authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141613	I fully agree that we can do much better, and that is why we have set aside 5 million in the Finance Act. kr. Of these, 4 million will be needed. kr. e.g. The aim is precisely to bridge the gap between the established health system and the alternative treatment methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141632	I'm pretty much in on that. That is also what I included in the proposal. When I made this proposal, none of the money had been allocated to the Finance Act. I would like to sign for what has been done in relation to the Finance Act in relation to this part, but I do not think it changes the challenge of ensuring independence, and that is what this proposal is all about. That is why I just want to hear: is the view of the Left, is it the view of the rapporteur that, in relation to research into alternative treatment, it is still considered by the Health Service, or is it supposed to be in an independent body, which is what is being proposed today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141704-2	Well, the rapporteur asked earlier about building a bridge between the established and the alternative, and I recognise that there is a need for us to build a bridge to a greater extent. That is precisely why the Blue Parties have given priority to funding under the Finance Act, so that we can strengthen research into how to bridge the gap between the alternative and the established.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141729	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426141739	It is of course a fact that there is a major discrepancy between interest in alternative treatment and the Danish state's investment in development and research in alternative treatment. The great popular interest in alternative treatment requires active participation by the state, and we in the Enhedslisten would like to support this. As several people have mentioned earlier, ViFAB, the Knowledge and Research Centre for Alternative Treatment, was established in order to be able to raise the area and optimise both knowledge and research in different alternative treatment types. The previous government chose to close the Centre in 2012 and hand over the task to the Danish Health Authority, but without the same funding, and there we have unfortunately seen that in practice this has meant a heavy under-priority of the area. Now there are a number of people who have expressed astonishment at the fact that the SF is putting forward this particular proposal. I would like to say that we are not at all puzzled. We think it is very, very wise of the SF to make this proposal, because it was a wrong decision that was made at the time, and we can then hope that the same wisdom will affect the rest of the Folketing. The creation of a new and independent centre, which this proposal proposes, will provide a stronger focus on alternative treatment options in the major public diseases and on the most widely used alternative therapies. I also think it is important to emphasise that the government's proposal is just an infinite amount of effort in relation to public and, in particular, private investment in traditional medical treatment. These are investments and treatment approaches, which are very much dictated by the pharmaceutical industry, which, of course, have very important interests at stake in maintaining the status quo. In Enhedslisten we acknowledge that there are a great many Danes who choose alternative solutions and approaches each year rather than traditional medicine, and therefore we would like to support research and especially knowledge gathering on alternatives to biomedical treatments, which often have quite major side effects both human and economic. At the same time, we support the proposal's idea of an independent centre, which ensures independence from the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and from the general and traditional biomedical approach, which may naturally be influenced by the Danish Health Authority. Throughout history, the medical world has often rejected alternative treatment in strong terms. There are huge economic and research interests at stake, and we know that the pharmaceutical industry has had an overly decisive influence on both research and the choice of therapies by doctors. However, more and more doctors and researchers recognise and refer to alternative practitioners, and we see that there will be increased recognition of the alternative sector as positive. We would like to help push forward this positive development by supporting this proposal. In the Enhedslisten we also note that access to alternative treatment is far away reserved for people with financial resources, since alternative treatment often takes place privately and is quite expensive. This is therefore an inequality in health for many of the groups that are being cut off from treatment. The Enhedslisten would therefore also like to emphasise that we support the proposal in order to document the impact of alternative treatment and thus to incorporate new and effective methods into public health care. An important part of the proposal also envisages the creation of evidence as to which alternative therapies actually have an effect. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of attempts to incorporate alternative treatment into the public sector, which has been shut down in recent years due to savings. One area in which we have seen good results is, among other things, one of the areas where we have seen good results. use of acupuncture during pregnancy and childbirth and in some places during chemotherapy. Such initiatives with free, effective and side-effect-free treatment are much more widespread, and it is actually a mystery to us that research in this area will not be given priority. It is good that 5 million will be set aside. kr. in the Finance Act here, but, as I said earlier, it is infinitely small in relation to what else is being devoted to research. At the same time, we believe that it is important to support the intention contained in the proposal to create an independent institution in which efforts can be concentrated in research and evidence. This is what this resolution does, and that is why the Enhedslisten supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142233	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142246	Thank you. I find it very sympathetic and relevant that there is more focus on alternative treatment and natural medicine, partly because there are more and more citizens who use it, partly because in some cases it can have better or the same effect as traditional treatments, but often with fewer side effects. That is why we have also set aside 5 million in the 2016 Finance Act. kr. to the area by strengthening the Health Authority's advice on alternative treatment. The funds must be used partly for research into alternative treatment and partly for more information for citizens and health professionals. The Liberal Alliance therefore believes that the area is covered. It is also assessed that the safety and health of patients in the context of alternative treatment are ensured by existing measures, inter alia: registration scheme and clinical guidelines. The Liberal Alliance therefore does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142347	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142400	With this motion for a resolution, the SF is proposing the creation of an independent institution to ensure research into alternative treatment and natural medicine. We are very pleased about this in the alternative and we want to commend the SF for the proposal. I would like to quote paragraph 3.1 of the alternative party programme. It says that we want to set up a research centre for complementary treatment. It will then be a university-based knowledge and research centre to gather and disseminate knowledge about complementary treatment. It will be set up in cooperation with the medical faculties of universities and health care. As several have mentioned, we increasingly see that Danish patients use alternative or complementary treatments. I think it is just over half of the Danish patients who have made use of it. Nevertheless, the scope of research in this field is far, far less than that of research in what we might call established medicine, the established medicine. And it is interpreted by many as saying that complementary treatment does not work because there is no evidence. That's usually what we hear. When there is no evidence, it is just as much about the fact that there is no basis for assessing whether there is evidence because there is not much research. It is, after all, again about the fact that the money for research lies primarily in the pharmaceutical industry. There is in itself a huge challenge in our healthcare system. If we do not overcome the challenge that money lies in the pharmaceutical industry, why research remains in the products that the pharmaceutical industry has an interest in spreading, then we will have no more money to research in the complementary field, despite the fact that we all agree that we should have it. So that element is important to get along. As I have said, the SF's motion for a resolution is very sympathetic and we also support it. There is such a need for an independent university-related institution which can undertake research into complementary treatment. Perhaps we could miss a little more vision in the resolution, because what exactly is this research centre supposed to be doing? When I say that, it is because SF mentions that you can find inspiration in ViFAB. ViFAB had some good things in it. ViFAB also had some major challenges in it. Among other things: the Minister mentioned the idea that one should be a bridge builder between the complementary field and the established one. ViFAB did not do so to a great extent because ViFAB built bridges from the complementary into the established. We really need to have an institution and get some research that can learn to speak the same language as the medical science we already know. This was one of the things that was mentioned when, in the Alternative, we held a conference on complementary treatment in February here at Christiansborg, by good people, among others. Asbjørn Drewes, a doctor in Aalborg, and also Vinjar Fønnebø, head of NAFKAM in Norway, Norway's research centre for complementary treatment. Both mentioned that if this is to succeed, it is extremely important that it comes from within the health care system, understood in the sense that we must bring established medical science into the challenges of research in the complementary field. I very much agree with that part of it. When I mention it, it is just because I think that dimension is missing from the resolution. Some of what I also think is missing and which I do not think we have talked about today is evidence. There are several who have mentioned that there is evidence. The Left rapporteur mentioned that we have the Cochrane Centre, which has valid methods of producing evidence. There is a lot of need to look at how we expand our understanding of evidence. In Norway, they are researching evidence typologies. They do, too, down in Germany. This is very interesting, because it is about evidence that can well be more than the RCT studies, randomised controlled trials that are being carried out in the established medical world and medicine. That is not to say that they are wrong, but it may well be that one should also open one's eyes to the fact that we need other forms of evidence typologies, other forms of evidence to measure. This is something I think a research centre for complementary treatment should be able to do. That is what I am missing from this motion for a resolution. But it is just elements and wishes that we have for what else can be put into it. All in all, we think it is a very positive motion for a resolution and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142845	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142856	We have it in the Radical Left as also the Socialist rapporteur. We believe that research and knowledge on alternative treatment and natural medicine are important, but I do not have a firm position on how it is best organised. That is why I would suggest that we do what the Socialist rapporteur also proposed, namely to follow this and learn more about it, because the answer is rarely just to roll back to something that was once, but rather to learn more about whether there is any need to do it in a different way. So that will be our position on it, and thus we do not support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142940	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Well, there was the honourable Member. Then we have reached the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426142954	Today we are discussing this motion for a resolution on the creation of an independent institution to ensure research and dissemination of knowledge on alternative treatment and natural medicine. We know that more and more Danes use both alternative treatment and natural medicine, and therefore there can be good reason to strengthen both knowledge and research in it and dissemination of what results are achieved. That is why we are also pleased that this 5 million pool has been set aside. kr. in connection with the financial year we are this year. 4 million kr. In addition, there are a number of projects in the field of research and 1 million in research and 1 million in the field of science and technology. kr. for That is why we cannot support this resolution, which goes in and, so to speak, imposes on us how to spend the money that has been found in connection with the Finance Act. That is why we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426143047	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426143111	Thank you. And also thanks for, I think, a lot of interesting kicks. I shall return to them a little bit. The reason for this proposal, which was mentioned by several speakers, is that, in view of the savings reported, a closure of ViFAB was carried out back in 2012. I also think today, and it is also SF's recognition, that the desire to build a bridge was a good intention. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who used the expression from the conciliation that was left in April 2012, namely that we should build a bridge. I think that is very true and I very much agree with that intention. I also believe that we must recognise today that this has not happened. In any case, I do not think that the Danish Health Service has sufficiently succeeded in building the bridge between alternative treatment and established treatment. This may also highlight the need to look at what we should do. At least that's what we've been thinking about inside the SF. We sometimes have to look at, if things are to be done again, what is to be replaced. The alternative rapporteur said very wisely, and I very much agree with it that there was a great deal of good in the old ViFAB, but there was something bad too. There were things that didn't work the way it was supposed to. It may also highlight the need for us not only to reinvent something that we have had, but to look at how we move forward to strengthen research into alternative treatment and natural medicine. Apart from the fact that I thought it was a little paradoxical to be accused of making a joke when making a proposal in the Danish Parliament, I would like to acknowledge that there was a desire on the part of the Danish People's Party to look at alternative treatment. I hope that a wide range of the parties will be able to gather together on this, among other things. The Socialists, who have just insisted that we should evaluate not least the experience of ViFAB, and perhaps not least of what was being done after ViFAB, and the coordination which, at least in my optics, did not seem to have been possible. We need a thorough evaluation of this. Hopefully, we will be able to gather support for it in committee afterwards. I very much hope so, because I think there were a number of parties that were just going to look at an evaluation. And then you have to look at whether it is exactly the model we are putting forward today that needs to be worked on or whether it is a different model. I'm very pragmatic. However, I believe that there is a need to explore the possibilities and, above all, to ensure that there is research into and knowledge acquisition of alternative treatment and natural medicine, and I do not think that is being sufficiently exploited at this stage. I would like to acknowledge that the Socialists were talking about the historic part we have shared and the desire to evaluate and look at it in the further work of the committee. It was again with the radical rapporteur, the alternative rapporteur and the Enhedslisten, who fully supported the proposal. I will address what the Danish People's Party has said. It is clear that we need to look at the funding that I would like to contribute to discussing. We are based on the draft financial regulation which was then in force. In fact, it was not the time to give effect to the funds available in this area. That is why we have written it into the proposal we have put forward. I take as a positive move the fact that this has been achieved since then. There has also been willingness to follow up on the finance agreement that was made, but that does not change the fact that it is still funding for 2016 that was made up. We must therefore find a long-term solution to the financing element and, above all, to the question of what we should replace. That is why I think that the idea of evaluation can be a very good initiative, which I hope can provide a basis for perhaps creating, with a few exceptions, a relatively broad political majority, which will ensure that research into alternative treatment and natural medicine is strengthened in the future. Against this background, I am actually looking forward to further committee work and would like to acknowledge the comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426143514	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426143530	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426143614	Thank you. I would like to start from behind with B 172, which I would like to thank Enhedslisten for presenting. To that extent, I could reject the proposal that it is a blow in the air, because it is totally unrealistic to have the necessary support for it among the other EU countries, and in our own view the time is not available to discuss treaty changes. But I'm not gonna do that. I would like to discuss the substance of the proposal, because I think there is reason to correct some misunderstandings. In particular, the purpose of a social protocol must be to ensure that social rights always take precedence in cases of opposing economic rights. The comments on the motion for a resolution state that workers' rights and the right of Member States to protect themselves against social dumping are not guaranteed by EU rules. It goes on to say that the European Court of Justice has prohibited trade unions and Member States from guaranteeing posted workers the same pay as nationals of host countries by law or collective agreements. These are some grounds for the motion for a resolution which, in my view, are wrong. The EU and the European Court of Justice recognise workers' rights and their enforcement. There are several examples of this which the proposers themselves are aware of, because one of them is directly mentioned in the comments to B 171. This is the case between a Finnish trade union and a Polish company. In its decision, the European Court of Justice emphasises that the wording of the Posting of Workers Directive means that the minimum wage is defined in accordance with the national law and/or practice of the Member State in whose territory the worker is posted. The judgment also states that the minimum wage for posted workers may not only be the free choice of the posted employer for the sole purpose of offering lower wage costs than local labour costs. I believe this is an expression of the fact that Member States have the opportunity and the right to ensure orderly working conditions in the labour market. What is crucial for a competitive and socially sustainable European Union is that freedom of movement and social rights are balanced against each other. Consideration of the service provider and freedom of movement implies that a service provider must be able to calculate in advance the cost of a task, including what a specific worker is entitled to according to the nature of the work, qualifications, seniority, etc. It is therefore impossible to wait until the service provider is aware of the costs involved in the subsequent agreement at local level to determine the actual salary. With the Danish Laval solution together with the social partners, we have found a good solution for this. It is a balanced solution to a specific problem which supports the work of the social partners on orderly conditions. I could also mention another important tool that supports orderly relationships, and that is our RUT register. The European Court of Justice has not expressed an opinion on this, but has dealt with the similar Belgian system, LIMOSA. Here the Court expressly states that the protection of workers through the fight against social dumping is one of the concerns which can be taken into account even if it interferes with freedom of movement. The government sees this as a balanced approach between the interests of free movement and the interests of workers' rights, and we think that is the right balance. It is clear that if you are against the internal market and against the European Union, you can also disagree with the fact that there must be a balance between the rights of workers. This is an honest matter, but the government is in favour of the internal market, of which both companies and workers have great advantages. It is always possible to discuss how the actual balance should be made and how we should combat cheating and abuse in practice, but we can do so within the existing Treaty framework, and that is one of the things we can do. The European Commission's proposal for a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive expresses. I will come back to that in a moment when I will explain the government's position on B 171. So, in the opinion of the government, a social protocol is not necessary and, as I said at the outset, it is not realistic to come through. The government wants to pursue its objectives using realistic means. With these words, I must inform you that the government cannot support the B 172. Now let me get back to B 171. The proposal has both a substantive aspect and a procedural aspect, namely the procedures for obtaining the government's mandate for negotiations. I shall start with the substance, and it is clear from my comments on the proposal for a social protocol that the government basically has a different view of the balance between free movement and workers' rights than the proposers have. At the same time, however, the government believes that there is more scope for protecting the interests of workers in current EU law than the proposers suggest. There is a central part of the legislation being made up precisely of the Posting of Workers Directive. The Posting of Workers Directive reflects the balance I have talked about. The Directive, on the one hand, allows Member States to enforce the most central terms and conditions of employment with regard to posted workers, and, on the other hand, provides seconded undertakings with knowledge of what to conform to. The first Finland judgment confirms that Member States can use a broad minimum wage concept. The Government's immediate interpretation is that the Commission's proposal for a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive consolidates the interpretation of minimum wages by the European Court of Justice following the current directive, and we will of course clarify this in the negotiations, and we will ensure that the definition of pay and other conditions remains a national matter, and on this point I fully agree with the proposers. This brings me to the procedural aspect of the resolution. In accordance with the usual procedures agreed between the Government and the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, the Government has sent a basic and proximity note to the Committee. As usual, I will inform the committee of the work on the presentation of Council agendas and, at an appropriate time, present the matter for discussion. With the proposal, the proposers propose a procedure for obtaining a mandate other than that agreed between the Government and the Folketing. It's a bad thing, and I can't recommend it. With these words, I must inform you that the government cannot support B 171 either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144447	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144453	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Do we also have longer speaking time when we have short comments, as we do in the case of rapporteurs, when we work together on proposals? Does that also apply to short remarks? No). Do you get two rounds of brief comments? No). Oh. It is not entirely fair and democratic. I just have to say that we read the different decisions of the European Court of Justice completely differently. However, I have a brief question: does the Minister believe that the Finnish judgment to which the Minister refers puts the following four judgments out of effect: the Viking Line judgment, the Laval judgment, in which the court intervened in the conflict between Swedish construction workers, the Rüffert judgment and the Luxembourg judgment, in which Luxembourg was given a prohibition by the Court of Justice that all foreign companies must not be required by law to follow the same agreements as Luxembourg companies. Does the Minister really believe that the Finnish judgment has nullified the four judgments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144604	I simply do not dare to answer that question as the question is put. However, I dare to relate to the regulation of labour market conditions that we have in Denmark, which is based on the Laval solution, which is based on a clear conflict law in Denmark, linked to the fact that we both ensure transparency through the RUT register in relation to the companies that come here and also ensure employees access to a legal conflict law which has not been disputed in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144641	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144643	Thank you. Well, the Minister will have to deal with that question. After all, it is the four judgments that caused the European trade union movement to get all the way into the red, because it was a clear interference in the conflict law of the Swedish construction workers, and hence of course in the law of conflict at all. And it was a clear violation of the right of Member States to protect themselves by legislation against social dumping by demanding equal conditions, such as the right to self-determination. Luxembourg did so by saying that all the agreements concluded in Luxembourg must apply to all companies, wherever they come from. So the minister has to deal with it. Otherwise, the Minister cannot claim that things can easily be dealt with within the current legal framework of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144726	When I replied, as I did for the first time, it was because there are a great many interpretations between these judgments, which are linked to different countries and different situations, a diverse regulation of collective agreements and a diverse definition of statutory salaries and generalisations, and that is something you can spend a great many hours discussing. The interesting thing here I assume is what it is for opportunities that are for the Danish Parliament or for the Danish social partners to ensure the proper pay and employment conditions we want in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144804	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144808	Thank you. When I take the floor here, it is in fact because I have noted that the Minister for Employment used a very strong expression, namely to call this proposal an unsuitability. Then it is that I am a little puzzled because the case is that the Enhedslisten basically has no option but to table such a motion for a resolution here, if Enhedslisten would like to influence the mandate that the government will give, because the likelihood of the government coming up in the European Committee with a mandate similar to this one is quite limited. So I would like to hear from the Minister for Employment how else the Minister for Employment would think that Enhedslisten should approach this if Enhedslisten would like to promote the agenda that this motion for a resolution expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144901	What was behind my comments is that a procedure has been agreed for the interaction between the government and the Folketing when it comes to mandate in relation to the European negotiations for which we are responsible as a government. These are, of course, some processes that I feel obliged to observe and will not question. I disagree with the desirability of changing these processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144933	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426144935	Nobody is talking about changing any processes at all. It is a question of the Enhedslisten having a political initiative here in the Parliamentary Assembly which requires the government to pursue a specific policy, just as it wants a resolution that does not attack a European context but a Danish context. Here, then, it is just a European context. I simply cannot understand the Minister's argument. Again: The Minister should of course answer what Enhedslisten should have done instead if it was the case that Enhedslisten wanted to promote it here, in order to respect the processes that the Minister himself talks about. Or is the fact just that you won't actually be able to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145010	Once the process has been agreed, I assume that it is a desire for a practical organisation of the negotiations in the European Union, which is, of course, very comprehensive and practical for all parties in the Folketing. Of course, it is entirely legitimate for any party, including the Enhedslisten, to propose changes to these processes. But I have said that these are not changes I would recommend.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145041	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145045	I have to ask: will the Minister not recognise that there is a contradiction between freedom of movement, which is, after all, the cornerstone of the internal market, and the professional and social rights which the trade union movement has acquired around the various European countries? I do not quite understand why the Minister is so strongly opposed to the introduction of a social protocol which, as an annex to the Treaty, would give precedence to social and trade union rights so that they would not be subordinate to the internal market and freedom of movement and the contradiction that has arisen. Will the Minister not acknowledge that conflict law has actually come under pressure, primarily as a result of free movement in the internal market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145145	I would like to acknowledge that these are two sides of the same coin, or they are two themes that go hand in hand as equal themes. The various European countries have taken a very different approach. There is no doubt that the increased legislative regulation, the increased generalisation carried out in a large number of countries, but not in Denmark, undermines conflict law. Because where the rights and obligations of the parliaments are established, there is no parallel right of conflict. The Danish social partners and, until now at least, a majority in the Danish Parliament have wanted it to be different in Denmark • have wanted the social partners to continue to have the right to deal with these matters. That is why I do not think that we in Denmark are in any way challenged here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145234	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145236	Then the Minister will have to explain to me why. When you actually made the Laval doom, it was clearly a "what to say"? A verdict had been given which clearly undermined the right of conflict around Europe as a result of freedom of movement and here, therefore, on the basis of Sweden. Then you had to do something in Denmark. Is it not true that the conflict law which, like the Laval judgment, came out of seconding companies and companies from outside is very much a conflict law that applies, let us just call it B-agreements, that is to say requirements for minimum wages and such things, whereas Danish agreements usually contain somewhat higher rates, at least when we talk about wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145321	No, the Laval solution was, in my view, by no means a panic solution, but I would like to acknowledge that it is an illustration of the complexity of this. When there is to be an interaction between 28 different labour markets with a transparency and a goodness, it is complex. What is the content of the Laval solution is precisely to ensure that it is not significantly lower collective bargaining standards that can be applied as a lock-off to conflict law in Denmark, but that a conflict law is granted in Denmark within some described framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145402	Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145425	Thank you for the floor, President. I shall start with, because that is what I have the most to say, Amendment B 171. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing the debate on this subject, in our opinion, very crucially on the agenda in this Chamber. The Commission's work programme for 2016 set the objective of implementing a principle of the same pay for the same job in the same place. Implementation of this principle would be a unique step in the fight against social dumping at European level, and the announcement was originally that the Commission would present a revised Posting of Workers Directive which could implement the principle in full. At the same time, the directive should respect national labour market models and should not affect national wage formation. In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome the fact that the European Commission has taken steps to reopen the Posting of Workers Directive on the basis of an objective of ensuring equal pay for equal work. The measure has taken place under pressure from a large number of countries, including Denmark, which is concerned with adapting EU legislation in a way that will enable us to combat social dumping and brain drain, etc. In particular, the revised provisions of the Directive consider that Member States should provide that posted temporary agency agencies should guarantee posted temporary workers the same rights as those of host country temporary workers. At the same time, we welcome the introduction of a new provision concerning subcontractors, a form of recognition of the possibility of introducing different types of chain liability. This allows Member States to require an undertaking to enter into agreements only with subcontractors guaranteeing compliance with the same pay conditions that the former undertaking must comply with. But we must also admit that we share the disappointment expressed by both the LO, the FTF and the academics in their response to the Commission's draft, because the Commission's proposal does not immediately meet the ambition of introducing a genuine principle of equal pay for equal work at the same workplace. The Commission's draft, probably for political reasons alone, is a minimum review. Therefore, it will also be crucial how the negotiations are going to take place, and it is crucial that the government is fully up to the mark to ensure that employees working in Denmark receive the same pay for the same work in the same place. We note that both the trade union movement and employers express concern that a number of the provisions comply with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. In particular, on the concept of pay and on the limitation of Member States' access to equal treatment for posted workers with domestic workers, there is a need to be extra vigilant. A process is already under way in the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, a process in which we in the Social Democratic Party are currently very much involved. As I said, we recognise the good intentions of the proposers, but we also find it rather strange that a motion for a resolution containing the five very specific points should be put forward for the mandate. The wording of the motion for a resolution that attaches decisive importance to all five points in the forthcoming negotiations will unnecessarily bind the government and can, in the utmost consequence, tighten the way for possible improvements to the Commission's draft, and this will lock the government to the unattainable, because, as I said, the position of the Social Democratic Party is that we are pleased with the revision of the directive. We would have liked the Commission to have gone further, but we hope that this can be achieved in the negotiations. The individual objectives of the resolution are in isolation excellent, but it is important for us that the government has room for manoeuvre in the forthcoming negotiations. Against this background, we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution. As regards motion for a resolution No. B 172, we again recognise in the Social Democratic Party the good intentions of the proposers in relation to safeguarding workers' rights in the EU Member States. Social democracy is in favour of the free movement of labour, but of course provided that foreign workers are employed on Danish pay and working conditions. In addition, taxes, social contributions and VAT must, of course, be paid in accordance with the rules in force either in the country of origin or in Denmark. We therefore recognise the relevance of the resolution in this context. Nevertheless, we reject the motion for a resolution on a social protocol for two reasons. Firstly, we do not think that the comments in the motion for a resolution are fair. The comments indicate that workers' rights, as the rules are today, are not guaranteed at all in the European Union, for example. It is not true that employers in the Member States are completely free to play, as stated in the comments. In addition, fundamental social rights, including conflict law, are already guaranteed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, such as: Nor is it apparent from the comments made. Secondly, the fundamental social democratic policy is that the re-orientation of European policy should not be based on fragmented resolutions, but should be determined by a broad consensus and taking into account Denmark's overall relationship with the European Union, especially if we want to change treaties or write new protocols. In view of this, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. B 172.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426145924	Thank you. So, I can hear from the rapporteur that he, like the Minister, is not of the opinion that there really is the big problem with the judgments that have been handed down. For now the rapporteur says that there is a fundamental charter in which conflict law is guaranteed. No, it's not. That is what the Court of Justice had to say in the Viking Line case, where it was said that this could be ignored if it was contrary to the rules of the internal market on freedom of movement. And so it was said with the Lavaldom and so on out there. I would like the rapporteur to take a look at this. Then I am surprised that the rapporteur does not support this proposal because, as the comments also show, there was an opportunity to prepare for that view.SAMAK, the Co-operation Committee for the Nordic Social Democrats and the LOs, not so long ago, has held a meeting. I have read that they agreed to support the demands of the European trade union movement for a social protocol, and I have not read that the Danish Social Democrats and the Danish LO should have distanced themselves from it. Maybe I need that information. Perhaps the rapporteur can inform me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150030	So, to be quite honest, it is quite true that there was a recent meeting in SAMAK, and this has been a debate in my party as well as with the trade union movement and the European trade union movement for a very, very long time. However, when I say in my speech that we are not going to agree, on the basis of a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and on the grounds that the Enhedslisten has put forward, that a social protocol is being drawn up, it is because it is something we want to look at properly and we want to analyse through what it might look like. But I also started by saying that we recognise the good intentions of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150107	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150108	This proposal for a social protocol is not something that Enhedslisten made up. Our motion for a resolution, in all its simplicity, is that we should support the proposal made by the European trade union movement. Then it can be said that we have misunderstood something in the remarks. I do not think we do, but that is not the case, because what is interesting is that we are dealing with a concrete proposal made by the European trade union movement and endorsed by the Nordic social democracies and the Nordic LOs, including the Danish ones. You know, you've gotten to it right before you did it. So I simply do not understand how the rapporteur can stand here and say that this will not be supported. It is, of course, a proposal which the rapporteur's party itself has sat and supported in a Nordic context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150156	Well, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, yes, we were part of that resolution in SAMAK, and we recognised that we would work in this direction. But that does not necessarily mean that we saw here in the Chamber on the premises which Mr. Finn Sørensen has put forward a motion for a resolution in this context. In other words, it might be that we might need to analyse it more thoroughly to find out exactly what we want to stress if a social protocol is to be written.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150223	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150229	The rapporteur recognizes the intentions of the resolution, but also says that the five proposals tabled here are too specific. That may surprise me, because what are the demands? Sir. Finn Sørensen has just explained that it is some that have been asked, among other things. In the light of the European Trade Union Confederation, it is necessary to lay down the same rules on pay, working time and employment conditions, as in the host country's own enterprises; to ensure that this is achieved through means such as collective action and legislation; these are means to ensure that wages are paid on equal terms; to ensure that the necessary collective action is taken to ensure compliance with the principle of equal pay for working conditions; to ensure that the European Court of Justice does not have the power to interpret the legality of collective action, as in the case of the judgments in question, the Viking Line, Laval, Rüffert and Luxembourg judgments; and that the definition of pay rules and other provisions relating to terms of employment is purely national competence. What is it in these five demands that the rapporteur does not consider sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150341	But there is nothing in the five demands that we do not necessarily think is sensible, and that is why it all depends on an interpretation of what this mandate is binding on the government. And when Enhedslisten writes in the proposal that the government must place a decisive emphasis on all five requirements, that is our interpretation. Well, then, sir. Henning Hyllested corrects me, but it is our usual interpretation of the way we usually do it in the Folketing, and then it will mean that the government must place emphasis on all five things when they go out and negotiate. And if you cannot do all five things or the like, you have to leave the negotiating table or give up, etc. In this way we do not want to bind the government, because we hope that, if nothing else, small improvements can be made to the draft submitted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150429	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150431	I understand that the Socialists apparently have one, I would almost say borderless hahaha, when we talk about the EU's trust in the government when they have to negotiate this. Still away: five very concrete proposals have been put forward, and then the Socialists make this a purely procedural matter, rather than looking at the substance and asking: is this sensible to fight for? Then you will have to see what the negotiation process brings with it, but as a starting point it is quite reasonable to require the government to go down and fight for if you agree that social dumping is a major problem in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150511	Well, sir. Henning Hyllested, we believe that social dumping is a major problem in Denmark and we believe that all the steps that can be taken to combat social dumping must be taken. But this is, then, when you choose to withdraw the mandate into the Parliamentary Chamber... and I acknowledge both the good intentions behind Enhedslisten, but also their full right to do so, regarding the discussion between the Minister and Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth before the meeting we also have to deal with what we do when we sit at the European Committee meetings. And I have to analyse what the Socialists should, if necessary, agree to and mandate when writing in the motion for a resolution that the government should place a decisive emphasis on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150550	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426150602	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for taking the initiative for this important debate in the Parliamentary Assembly today. The proposers have put forward two proposals for a parliamentary resolution, both of which contain important considerations in relation to the future protection of workers. As you know, the Posting of Workers Directive is before a much-needed review, but it is also clear that the revision proposed by the Commission does not meet the wishes that could have been expressed in advance. The Commission itself has suggested that a future review of the Posting of Workers Directive would address the question of how long someone may be temporarily posted, but this is neglected in the draft review. However, one can reach as far as to conclude that it will probably be more than 24 months, which is not so much temporary. In addition, the new draft directive, as far as the importance of the directive's concept of pay is concerned, shifts competences from the nation states to the European Court of Justice. In the motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten proposes to equip the government with a mandate for the negotiations on a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, which implies a number of improvements in relation to what is existing, both as regards the existing directive as the proposed revision. Basically, the Danish People's Party believes that people working in Denmark should be subject to the same rules on pay, working time and employment conditions as apply to the other labour market in Denmark, and this is also the basis for the agreement between the Danish Employers' Association and the LO on posting in 1992. The Commission's proposal for a new directive interferes with what has hitherto been to be regarded as national matters, namely the issue of the concept of pay, and it is positive that the Enhedslist is critical of this in its proposal. It must be maintained that, of course, it cannot be attributed to the European Union in a directive that is enshrined in the Treaty and maintained as national matters. Afterwards, Enhedslisten clarifies matters which from a Danish optics seem obvious, namely among others. the right to strike and other collective action. The Danish People's Party fully shares the dissatisfaction with the interpretation of these facts by the European Court of Justice, as expressed by the verdicts in the Viking Line and Laval case. It therefore makes good sense to clarify that the conditions which should apply to the Danish labour market must of course also apply to companies covered by the Posting of Workers Directive. As you know, the Danish Government already argued in the Viking Line and Laval cases that the EU had no fundamental right to interfere in conflict law. It is therefore also logical, in the view of the Danish People's Party, that this fundamental position should be repeated with regard to the Commission in the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. It may also be part of history that the Employment Committee currently has the proposal for a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive for a proximity check and that an opinion should be given on it on 2 May, and here it is perhaps not entirely unlikely that the committee will come to the conclusion that the Commission should be equipped with a yellow card. The first proposal from the Enhedslisten can therefore be supported by the Danish People's Party. As far as the second proposal from the Enhedslisten on the introduction of a social protocol in the Treaty of Lisbon is concerned, we understand the ideas behind it, in other words the desire to protect employees in Denmark and, in so far as other countries are concerned, from social dumping. The only question is whether it is the right medicine in relation to the diagnosed disease. Basically, I believe that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten agree that the ambition is less EU regulation than more EU regulation, but with the introduction of such a social protocol as Enhedslisten wants, we risk opening up more EU regulation, in other words for the EU to take on greater responsibility in the labour market area. Moreover, it is not self-evident that just because, for example, we in Denmark, as the authors of the motion for a resolution want, ask for a social protocol with the wishes we may now have for such a one, the social protocol which will be reached when it is completed will also express what the Enhedslisten or other parties may want. It may well end up being a social protocol which, de facto, does not strengthen the legal position of employees but weakens it. That depends on the content. Furthermore, it should also be borne in mind that if you first move on to the track that says that you need a protocol to deal with a specific problem, then you may also risk that a number of other stakeholders will want various other protocols to deal with specific issues that are important to them, thereby really launching an unfortunate process towards more EU regulation, and that is certainly not the starting point of the Danish People's Party. The question is whether it would not really be more appropriate to attack the issue raised by Enhedslisten through a Danish reservation. In the past, we in the Parliamentary Assembly have discussed the issue of a 'welfare reserve', and in our opinion it would make very good sense to tackle the problem of social dumping under the same heading. So I would recommend the proposers to consider that. So although we in the Danish People's Party understand the reasons for the proposers of the proposal for a social protocol, we are therefore somewhat reluctant to support this second proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151213	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151220	Thank you. It is interesting to hear the Danish People's Party place such crucial emphasis on conflict law. I think that is a good thing. I agree with that approach, which is why my question is whether the Danish People's Party has changed its mind on this issue. Since back in the summer of 2012, we had the discussion about Restaurant Vejlegården, the Danish People's Party, together with the Left, tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at restricting the conflict law for 3F and other trade unions. And I just need to know if the Danish People's Party has changed its mind on the issue of conflict law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151255	No, we haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151259	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151301	Well, then I'm confused. For what the Danish People's Party now confirms is that the Danish People's Party is still in favour of limiting the possibility that trade unions in Denmark may conflict. And with the answer I received to the first question, I assume that the Danish People's Party will continue to work to limit conflict law, including in an EU context. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151330	What the Danish People's Party wants to work for in a European political context is, in fact, very well described in the motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151342	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151346	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for supporting the proposal on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. Thank you also for the very precise representation of what the purpose is and how it is screwed together. After all, it is a pleasure to hear that rapporteurs are making an effort to read what is actually written and what is the intention of it. So thank you for that. I think the rapporteur has misunderstood the proposal for a social protocol and what it will lead to. It will not lead to more EU regulation of industrial relations. On the contrary, it states precisely that, if there is to be a conflict between professional and social rights on the one hand and the rules on free movement, i.e. economic freedoms, on the other, then professional and social rights prevail. It was, after all, a proposal made by the European trade union movement on the basis of the judgments which we agree to criticise. If such a protocol were to be promoted, it would mean that the Court would not be able to give such decisions in the future. So this is not about giving the European Union more power, on the contrary. It is about giving the Court less power.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151458	To that extent, I can follow Mr. Finn Sørensen somewhere along the way. Where I think the chain is jumping off is by the confidence in the EU system, as Mr. Finn Sørensen's line here is an expression. Because I do not necessarily believe that one can expect that just because there is a desire for a social protocol with some content, x that what then comes out on the other side of the EU mill when it has been through the process is the same x. It could have turned into z. It may also have become a or f. That is what I am afraid of: that you run the risk of moving into a ball street where you are not sure that you will actually get the result you intended to get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151545	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151547	That is absolutely right. That is the risk, every time a proposal is put forward, even here in the Danish Parliament. A minority can make a good proposal and then the majority will take over the proposal, and then it will not be able to know again. But it is voted through because then there are some members of the Folketing who have the power to do so. So if we are to follow that logic, we can never make any suggestions for fear of what some others can use them for. That's not gonna work. We have a very urgent problem on which I can hear we actually agree. And then there is a narrow legal justification for having such a social protocol as well. We have to agree to interpret the Treaty provisions used by the Court of Justice when it handed down the judgments which we agree to criticise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151633	I basically don't think that sir... Finn Sørensen and I are so far apart. I would just prefer to attack the problem in another way. After all, there is a little more hand in dealing with it if it is we here in the Folketing who decide what is right and wrong in the policy being pursued here in the country. That's also why we and Enhedslisten had thoughts about this welfare reservation. That is what we decide for ourselves, you might say, the framework of, and we would not do that in the same way with such a social protocol. So it is probably more a question of how to solve the problems rather than whether there is a problem on which we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151710	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426151723	Thank you. Motion for a resolution B 171 has a substantive aspect which I would like to comment on. After all, it is based on an premise that EU law does not recognise conflict law; that there is no balance between freedom of movement and workers' rights; that the Posting of Workers Directive does not provide posted workers with minimum protection; and that Member States do not have the possibility of enforcing the rules. I would just like to say that, basically, the Left does not agree with the premise on which this motion for a resolution is based. Then we have a resolution called B 172. And there is what Enhedslisten is proposing to introduce a social protocol, that is to say to add it to the Treaty of Lisbon, which will mean that professional and social rights always outweigh the rules of the internal market on the free movement of workers. If that happens, the free movement of workers will be restricted and we therefore consider that it will have a negative impact on the growth that we all want to speak up and want to see in Europe. We believe that the need to legislate at EU level could be about pay and other social rights • is not a matter for the European Union. In this way, we already have a well-functioning system that ensures healthy competition and a flexible labour market. And the European Union must respect that countries have different ways of dealing with the labour market, and we do not want the European Union to regulate Member States' labour market systems. In other words, there is a good balance between freedom of movement and respect for workers' rights. As I have said, there is a good correlation between freedom of movement and the Danish labour market model, and there should be no doubt that we are working to choose the implementation from the one that is the least intrusive in relation to the Danish labour market, including that pay is a matter for the social partners when we come to implement the enforcement directive. The Left is in favour of an internal market which both companies and workers, I believe, have a great advantage and benefit. And we do not want to give social rights such priority over other economic rights. So we do not want to support the two motions for resolutions and therefore we are voting against them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152021	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152026	I would like even more than usual to appreciate and commend the rapporteur for his totally undisguised honesty. We do not want to give trade union and social rights precedence over economic freedoms. It is then a clear posture that is to feel and that just shows that the Left and Enhedslisten are on opposite sides of a deep, deep abyss. So thank you for the clear message. Much less thank you, yes, no thanks at all for the fact that the rapporteur, and I hope it is not conscious, attaches some things to our proposal that are not in it at all. After all, we have not criticised the fact that posted workers are not entitled to a minimum level of protection. What we are criticising is that they do not have the right to have the full agreement that we usually use here in Denmark. That's what the criticism is all about. Nor is the proposal for a social protocol a proposal for the EU to start regulating wages and working conditions, on the contrary. That is exactly the opposite of the proposal for the social protocol. So I do not think that changes the rapporteur's position, it is clear enough, but would the rapporteur please read the proposals a little more carefully before he begins to attribute to them things that are not in them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152142	I am very happy to study the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, and there are some of them, and that is very good, because then we will be discussing both EU policy and labour market policy in the Parliamentary Assembly. We are just not of the opinion that we guarantee employees and their rights in the best way possible by wanting to add a social protocol. The fact that this is unrealistic, we believe, is another aspect of the matter. However, we do not believe that the social protocol helps to ensure growth and employment and thus more people in work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152227	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152229	Thank you. No, it is clear that the Left is not in favour of such a person when one has a position that professional and social rights should not be overarching economic freedoms. That is what the proposal from the European trade union movement is all about. My appeal was simply that the rapporteur should not present it as if the proposal was that the EU should legislate on wages and working conditions. If you read it, it is crystal clear that the European Union should not interfere with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152300	No, but it remains to discuss what the outcome of a social protocol as an addition to a treaty will mean. What will this have to do with the opportunities to organise things on the Danish labour market? This is very unclear to me, which is why we do not want to go down that road. We want to maintain that the social partners have an important role to play in the Danish labour market, and we do not want to undermine them by following and supporting this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152337	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152342	It might almost sound as if the rapporteur did not fully recognise that there is a major problem on the Danish labour market, namely the problem of social dumping. I guess I do not have to repeat that this is actually a very serious problem. It threatens in reality to undermine the labour market model that we are otherwise celebrating here at home. If the rapporteur is so clearly opposed to going the way that the Enhedslisten is proposing here in relation to the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, then what needs to be asked is: what are we going to do? These are some very, very concrete proposals that give the opportunity to take action against social dumping, which I say threatens the Danish labour market. What else do you do? Are we just allowing things to flow and allowing what has always happened to happen, that is to say we recognise or accept that there is widespread social dumping in the Danish labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152443	I believe that the Danish labour market is characterised by generally arranged conditions. The vast majority of people who come here also work by appointment. After all, we have taken a large number of steps together in the Danish Parliament to ensure that when you get here with your company and your employees, you are also registered. There is also increased access for the trade union movement to actually obtain information about where the company works and how many employees work in that place, so that they can actually avail themselves of the opportunity of conflict. So it is also a great deal about the professional organisations now also using the opportunities that exist to conflict and to ensure orderly relations for their members.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152538	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152541	But it is surely a fact that it is now clear that social dumping is relatively widespread. We have just been documented in a new report from the Research Centre at the University of Copenhagen, which is researching these things, that it is still a very widespread phenomenon. We must note that at least the RUT register has not been able to solve the problem. On the whole, it has to be said that the funds that have been used are used at home, and so on. If, at the same time, you have a number of judgments, no less than four, which undermine so much the conflict law that could enable you to intervene if you cannot, if I may say so, negotiate with the seconding companies, then you are in a bad position if you do not do some of the things which, among other things, you do. Enhedslisten suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152630	No, in fact, I believe that a large number of measures are being taken in the Danish labour market to ensure that we have arranged conditions. The authorities make control actions; information is available in the RUT register so that the trade union organizations can take action. The study to which the questioner refers shows, as I have read it, that the vast majority are thus covered and receive minimum wages on the Danish labour market. Then I admit, yes, that there are challenges in some places. I admit that, but we must take care of that with the possibilities and the systems that already exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152710	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152719	Thank you. In fact, the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, is prevented, which is why I am allowed to stand here today in the Chair and make her speech as rapporteur. Motion for a resolution B 171 is divided into two parts and aims to strengthen the fight against so-called social dumping, and to reflect on the balance between European and national competences. The Liberal Alliance disagrees with the interpretation of what the resolution calls social dumping. It is important to distinguish between healthy competition and the circumvention of rules, and for us freedom of movement creates opportunities for individuals and is also a benefit to society as a whole. This also applies to the working groups which are experiencing greater competition in their particular sector. In addition, we disagree with the scale of the problem. According to the Danish Employers' Association's Labour Market Report, three out of four foreigners work under Danish agreement. The current Posting of Workers Directive also already requires uniform conditions for minimum wages, working hours, paid holidays, protection of pregnant women, etc. etc. In addition, an enforcement of the directive has been adopted to further ensure compliance with the rules, but we have not yet seen the full effects of this, as it will only have to be final and fully implemented later this year. However, like the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance is also concerned with the case law of the European Court of Justice and the balance between national and European competences. Overall, however, the Liberal Alliance cannot vote in favour of motion for a resolution B 171 nor in favour of B 172.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426152925	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of healthy competition. I would like to try to get some more concrete pictures on that. For example, is it... In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the European Union's role in the world economy and its role as a partner in the world economy. of Polish construction workers do not receive any extra pay for overtime, even if they work 55 hours a week on average; 35 per cent. No overtime is paid at all when working more than 40 hours; only 46 per cent. of which they are paid holiday allowances; 27 per cent. of the posted Poles it is posting that we are talking about here • do not have a contract of employment at all; that 19 per cent. Fear firing if they talk to the Danish authorities; that 45%. of them are not trained in construction at all; and that they are afraid to contact the union? And I could go on forever. Is this an expression of healthy competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153023	Thanks for the list. In fact, I believe that we must note that the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten do not entirely agree on what is competition and what is not competition. It is clear that we in the Liberal Alliance are also not in favour of a proper circumvention of the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153041	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153043	No, but now it wasn't all an actual circumvention of the rules. It wasn't necessarily. But I can just say that only 10%. of the Poles tells that they are covered by an agreement and that 58 per cent. do not know whether they are covered by an agreement. Then there will be a minority who may think they are. But there are 25,000 stationed in the building, and the vast majority of them are Poles. Is it an expression of healthy competition that so many of them work under the conditions I have described here? And I didn't even have time to finish the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153124	In general, free movement is an expression of competition and also of healthy competition. In this context, it also creates growth in Danish society and free means for society in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153142	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153151	Is it an expression of healthy competition that there are craftsmen on the Danish villa roads • probably mostly in North Zealand, but bad now with the • which works for 83 DKK. in the hour, far below both the minimum payment of the agreement, but above all far below the wage level of Danish craftsmen, i.e. about DKK 175. In class?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153216	I do not think I will deal directly with various agreements between employers and workers in Denmark, other than to refer again to the fact that I believe there is a great difference between Enhedslisten's and Liberal Alliance's view of competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153234	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153237	But what does the rapporteur think it does about the Danish labour market? If you offer your labour to well below the level that Danish craftsmen have achieved in this case over decades of struggle for decent pay and working conditions, what does the rapporteur think it is doing about the Danish labour market? Does the rapporteur really believe that with it, and I therefore call it very, very unhealthy competition, we can maintain the orderly, regulated labour market that we know in Denmark and which is the cause of the prosperity that Danish society is after all expressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153319	I think it helps to increase competition in general that there are different opportunities to take back labour for the individual employer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153331	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153344	In the alternative, we are very much in favour of the internal market and the free movement that we see as the cornerstone of the European Community; that is something we must be careful of. Having said that, however, in the alternative, we are very focused on the fact that we have three bottom lines that need to be balanced: the social, the economic and, of course, the environmental. Unfortunately, we have seen that there has been an excessive focus on the economic bottom line of European cooperation in the internal market and on freedom of movement. So there is a need for us to have a much greater focus also on the social bottom line. That is why we welcome the two motions for resolutions tabled here by the Enhedslisten, which require the government to work to ensure that the national competences of the Member States are safeguarded in important areas such as pay and working conditions in the context of the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, as well as here the inclusion of a social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon. We believe that these two measures are important tools in the fight against social dumping and tools, of which the European trade union movement has been stressing the importance for several years. Then we can ensure that professional and social rights are not subordinate to economic freedoms and that equal pay is paid for equal work and, among other things, ensure that they are protected. the right to strike by the trade unions. The Enhedslisten writes in motion for a resolution B 171 how the European Court of Justice has created problems with its interventions in conflict law and in the right of Member States to protect themselves against social dumping. It must be stressed that in the alternative, we also find these judgments very problematic, and this clearly demonstrates the need for a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. But it is important in these discussions also to bear in mind why these problematic judgments come. After all, the European Court of Justice must interpret EU legislation, and when these problematic judgments come in, it is often because the Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States have not been good enough to clarify the wording of, for example, the directives. So it is not always in the European Court of Justice that the dog is buried. After all, the European Court of Justice acts on the basis of the scope left by the legislators in the form of the European Parliament and the Member States in the form of imprecise terms when, in negotiating situations, it is not possible to agree on precise definitions. So it is important that we do not just blame the EU institutions when decisions are taken by the European Court of Justice, which we do not like, because we on the part of the Member States are often very much involved in creating these situations ourselves. It is when we blame the European institutions for situations which we in the Member States are very much helping to create that we are also helping to create unnecessary scepticism, from our point of view, towards European cooperation. We do not believe that, as Enhedslisten writes, it can be written in that the European Court of Justice should not have powers in these and those areas, because, as I have said, the European Court of Justice must interpret EU law. However, this shows the importance of being very careful on the part of the government in negotiating the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive and making it clear precisely that, for example, the definition of wage regulations must be national competence and that the right to strike for the trade unions must be guaranteed. So there is this little thing that we hope we can work on together in the work on the resolution, and otherwise we are very positive about both B 171 and B 172.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153718	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153722	I would like to thank you for your support for the proposals. I can also hear that we actually agree on why they are necessary. I would like to confirm that the purpose of this is not to frame the Court of Justice in this sense, because the Enhedslisten fully agrees that the Court of Justice will give its rulings on the basis of the legislation made by the Member States and the European Parliament. And if the treaties and directives had been completely crystal clear, the Court would not have been able to make the decisions it makes, so that is a fundamental error of EU law, as we actually point out in the comments. So maybe I don't quite understand the disagreement. If, at last, there is a dispute, that is what the Court of Justice should have jurisdiction for. If you rewind the foundations of Danish membership of the European Community in 1972, it was a crystal clear condition that was promised to the Danish electorate and the Danish trade union movement that the Court of Justice and the European Union would not interfere in conflict law. It has always been a clear premise that the European Union should not be allowed to interfere in this. So I think it is still right to stick to it and to put together some EU legislation that prevents it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153834-2	As I have already said, I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Finn Sørensen and that suggestion. It is about how it is formulated here in the proposal, namely that the European Court of Justice does not have the power to interpret it. There I think we should look elsewhere to get an apt description in the resolution. However, I fully agree with that and that is why I am saying that we are very positive about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153901	Sir. Finn Sørensen? No. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426153914	I've been wondering if I should try bluffing here today or if I should be honest, but I'd better be honest. This is the first time I have had a proposal in this area, a great deal of respect for all of you rapporteurs, because stop it, it is a complicated area of labour law, the European Union, etc. I haven't worked on it before. It is deeply, deeply complicated, and so I will not try to bluff myself through some big statement about EU law, directives, negotiations, etc., but just stick to the superiors. Of course, we also want equal pay for equal work and we want to combat social dumping, but we also want to ensure the free movement of workers in Europe, and then we have to find a balance there. However, I hear the Minister in that way that this balance can be ensured within the legislation in force. At least that is what is being proposed in the Posting of Workers Directive. So we support the fact that the government is negotiating it, whereas it does not seem so realistic to get this social protocol through because it requires unanimity. That is why it is not so realistic, and that is why we cannot support it. I know that these are very general and fundamental statements, but I know that if I try to bluff Mr. Finn Sørensen, I'm being exposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154046	Same sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154051	To be honest, I would simply like to take my hat off for the rapporteur. My mother also always said: " With honesty you get the longest, and then she added: " But you rarely get rich from it. That doesn't mean that all rich people are lying. But then it was a side jump. I now think that the rapporteur has the heart of the matter: is it possible to ensure a level playing field for foreign workers, i.e. posted workers, as well as for Danish workers, so that they have the same conditions as Danish workers? Experience has already shown that this is not possible within the current EU rules, and that is the decision of the Court of Justice in the Laval case. For it said that the Swedish construction workers' union should not conflict with the fact that Latvian posted workers were subject to exactly the same agreement as Swedish construction workers. That was the crux of the matter, and that is still the state of law, and that is what we are trying to rectify. My question to the rapporteur is this: is there any balance in the matter if it is forbidden for a Swedish trade union or a Danish trade union to demand that posted workers be subject to exactly the same agreement, that is to say exactly the same pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154207	But now I think I hear different interpretations in this Chamber among people, all of whom have quite a lot of sense in this area in relation to this judgment. So that's why it's really hard for me to answer it if I take Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen's interpretation as a premise, because I understand that there are other interpretations as well. But I want to say so much that it is also our ambition that people working in Denmark work on Danish pay and working conditions and that I also think it is a problem when there are workers who do not. But then I understand that this doesn't have to be the solution. It can be resolved within EU law, and I think that we should give the government a mandate to go further in the negotiations that it can be done in this way. But I agree that this is a problem. I do not want to stand up and say that this is not a problem, as I almost heard the Liberal Alliance or some of the bourgeois people do, as they only advocated the free movement of workers. I also believe that it should be under proper conditions, otherwise we are undermining our own model. I fully agree with the Enhedslisten. And here I lean on the government, which I do not otherwise lean on in all sorts of other areas, but I do not think it is necessary in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154321	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154323	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the rapporteur hopefully has a long life ahead of him, at least a much larger part of the future ahead of him than I have been able to do, and there the rapporteur can get himself into all this law. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to start by reading the Posting of Workers Directive and the Laval judgment, because it is crystal clear what this is about. The Posting Directive says that posted workers are entitled to minimum wages and overtime payments, and that is what is when we talk about wages. And the courts say it's maximum. We must not demand the full agreement, which is, after all, much more in an agreement than a minimum wage, but we must not. Yes, we can demand it, but we can't make a conflict to get it. That is the crux of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154409	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Zenia Stampe I have to answer). That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154414	I would like to spend some of the rest of my life getting better into it so that we can have a really good discussion another time. But at least I think the issue is relevant. We take that too seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154423	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. No, I have to say, I can't believe you could miss Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. The word is sir. Karsten Hønges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426154442	Thank you. Fortunately, there is a single party that is smaller than SF in the Folketing. The judgments of the European Court of Justice have put our labour market under pressure, and in the SF we fully agree that both the social partners and the Folketing can do more to ensure conflict law. We do not believe that we in the Danish Parliament can secure the entire conflict law as long as the European Court of Justice can interpret the current EU treaties and the current Posting of Workers Directive as it has done in relation to the Laval judgment, the Viking Line judgment and the Rüffert judgment. We need to clarify the interpretation of the EU Treaties themselves by means of a new social protocol, such as: The ESF, the European LO, has proposed. At the same time, we need to improve the Posting of Workers Directive on some crucial points. Both can and must work for the Danish Government in the EU. However, even if there is no prospect of either a new social protocol or an improved posting directive such as this tomorrow, Parliament can actually do much to secure conflict law and thus ensure that foreign workers in Danish jobs get better pay and working conditions, and secure Danish jobs against social dumping from foreign companies. Since the enlargement of the European Union to include the countries of Eastern Europe, the trade unions in Denmark have been working on a permanent basis. Moreover, I am sure that enlargement of the European Union will benefit all of us in the longer term, both democratically and economically, but here and now we must say that it also presents us with a number of challenges, especially when moneymen from Eastern Europe and cynical Danish intermediaries see the possibility of a quick profit by underpaying employees. Foreign companies and employees are therefore welcome in Denmark, but they have nothing to do here unless they respect Danish trade unions, Danish agreements and our health and safety legislation and then also pay tax and VAT. The competition for jobs must take place on fair and equal terms and not by looking at who can fastest tighten the belt. And if we are not awake now, then we can rightly be blamed later for having slept per hour, while the Danish labour market was set for sale by the way. If we do not manage this area, the consequences for the whole of society in just a little longer term will become completely incalculable. Experience from Germany and England shows the risk of not tackling the challenges in time, because in those countries wages are under pressure and the trade unions are on their heels. There are, of course, some people who think it is really nice with such a robber capitalism. But the stakes in this poker game are the very way to set up the labour market. And mostly, when we talk about welfare, it is of course about tax, transfer income and public service, but for ordinary workers, welfare is very much a matter of access to secure and orderly conditions in the labour market. That is why it is not just a trade union matter, but simply a matter of defending our welfare society and the Danish way of organizing the labour market. The trade union movement is doing a huge task here for the benefit of the whole of society for its own resources, and this is strictly not sustainable in the long term. Why should union members have to finance that effort by their quota alone? In order to carry out this task, it will be necessary for us to have even more opportunity than we do today, both the trade union movement, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the SKAT, to use the tools they need. And it is necessary that we constantly adapt tools and efforts in relation to the task. The situation is, of course, that the labour market is shaken by these three judgments of the European Court of Justice: both the Laval judgment, the Viking Line judgment and the Rüffert judgment. And for the SF, it has always been important to follow two tracks in this work: on the one hand, a national track, where we are correcting the legislation, so that here and now, and as far as possible, we free the Danish labour market from the consequences of the unfair decisions of the European Court of Justice, and, on the other hand, an EU track, where we have some arrangements that will ensure that the European labour market is organized in respect of national systems and traditions. It is absolutely crucial for the SF that we get an agreement at EU level that cannot be amended afterwards by the European Court of Justice. If we do not get such a guarantee, we simply run the risk that the curtain will later be pulled away under the trade unions' right to dispute for an agreement and that the curtain will thus be pulled away under the labour market, as we know it. There is a risk that we will open a barn gate for social dumping, where Danes are competing out of their own jobs by employees from low-wage countries. I don't want a Trojan like that to be shut inside. Even with legislation, even with a new posting directive and even with a social protocol, one should not think that the problems have just been solved. Because there is already a very low minimum payment in the agreements we have today. There are different historical reasons for this, but the fact is that even with the minimum payment we have in the agreements, we can see that they are often both 30, 40 and 50 per cent. In the light of what Danish employees actually receive in terms of salary. The use of minimum rates by the agreement system is not suited to the situation that we have had since the enlargement of the European Union. We can then hope that the trade union movement will have the strength to convince employers of this. What I'm trying to say is that an agreement doesn't solve all the problems. It just makes it more manageable, since after all it is connected to a professional system. But the conclusion is that these things cannot stand alone and that there is a need for a new, modern posting directive and a social protocol defending the right of workers to fight for agreements. The conclusion is that it is a good debate that Enhedslisten has raised. And we believe that the proposals that lie before us deserve support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155132	We cannot support the motions for resolutions. It's probably gonna come as a shock. I can see the horror in Mr. Finn Sørensen's eyes. But I really think the Minister explained this very well and we agree with the words spoken by the government. I would also like to say that I find it strange that, when we always pay tribute to what we call the Danish model, where legislators have to stay out of the labour market situation, we show such an eagerness to have it treaty-enforced with certain rights that trade unions and employers' organisations usually agree on. I'm a little puzzled about that. But it is such an attempt to push a little socialism into the European Union, and of course we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155222	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155226	Thank you. I could understand the surprise of the rapporteur if our proposal was based on what the rapporteur says. I believe that the rapporteur is well aware that the Enhedslisten is vertically opposed to the EU interfering in the rules of the Danish labour market. So if that's what we suggested, then I could understand. But I think the rapporteur's surprise will disappear if the rapporteur makes the effort to read the European trade union proposal for a social protocol. The rapporteur will then see that it is a question of clarifying the interpretation of some very central Treaty provisions, so that we cut the Court off from, for example, the Court of Justice. to interfere in the Danish conflict law and in the legislation of the countries on such matters as we are talking about here. So I can warmly recommend to the rapporteur that he read the proposal for a social protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155315	Thank you. I read it. I have read and heard that some rights must be guaranteed to implement a lot of demands. It is my view that the trade unions and companies have their professional struggle. They fight, and then they find out what conditions should be in the labour market. They have the tools for that, as we know. They should then be allowed to do so, but I do not think that these demands should be laid down in an EU Treaty. I don't think it belongs there at all. There is no such thing in the Danish constitution either. So I think it's weird if we suddenly have to write it into a treaty. It is such a handshake to the trade union movement, and they have made it in Denmark without us having such treaty fortifications. I find it difficult to see the need for this at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155405	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155408	Can the rapporteur not understand the problem, or will the rapporteur not understand it? After all, the problem is that the Court has interfered in how the social partners in Denmark, Sweden and all the other countries should resolve their conflicts. That is what the Court of Justice has interfered with. The proposal for a social protocol is about preventing the Court from interfering with it. So if the rapporteur really was in favour of the freedom of the social partners themselves to solve these problems of pay and working conditions, then the rapporteur should support the proposal we are making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155443	Now I was actually talking about motion for a resolution No. B 171, since we are discussing the two proposals together. In B 171, it's not about what Mr. Finn Sørensen says, but about some specific rights that need to be enshrined in the Treaty. At least I don't see the purpose of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155501	Thank you. And then, sir... Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten right on the last minute. Here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155509	It was because of Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's alleraller's last remark that this is about some specific rights. Yes, it does, and it is because today there are some specific rights on the Danish labour market that regulate it and make the Danish labour market today well regulated and offer orderly conditions. And these specific rights are under pressure. Of course, the labour market is under pressure if you can work as a craftsman to 83 DKK. per hour, where a normal Danish craftsman gets 175 DKK. It's an hour. And, of course, the labour market is under pressure if judgments are handed down by the European Court of Justice which undermine the ability of the trade unions to address and address this, possibly through conflicts. These are the specific rights we are proposing. We are not suggesting anything at all about what should be in the agreements and what the wage level should be. But we are talking about the rights that can preserve the Danish labour market model as it is today, where the trade unions also have some rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155615	Well, we agree on that, so there is no suggestion in this that there should be a certain level of pay or specific elements in the agreements. But what you are trying to do here is to protect yourself from outside competition. You don't want pay competition, and it's fair enough that you don't want it. I see this as part of the struggle that is taking place in the labour market, and there must also be the opportunity to challenge it. I think we must live with that and see it as something positive if there are those who would like to work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155649	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155651	That was quite a statement, I must say. No, what the Danish labour market model has taken into account is precisely to protect oneself from unfairness. Rasmus Jarlov, that he thinks it's okay that people come and work to 83 kr. in an hour, which is far, far below the contractual payment in this country. But it is the case that when you have fought and fought in the labour market and agreement has been reached between the trade unions, between the unions, between the LO and the Danish Employers' Association and the Danish Employers' Association's member organisations, what you agree is reasonable, the level of working on the Danish labour market. And that is what is exposed to unfair competition. But I understand that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov thinks is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155740	Well, that's the level you've agreed on. Those who are not part of these organizations are not covered by that agreement. Then you have to fight them. I guess these are the tools you have as a union. But I do not think we should go in and legislate on it. I think it is interfering and using the state apparatus for the benefit of trade unions. I think that is contrary to the ideals of the Danish model, which is otherwise hailed on the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155809	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426155823	Thank you. And thank you for the debate, which has been fruitful in many ways and also revealing where the various parties stand. So thank you for that. In one of my brief remarks, I quoted from a report published yesterday by the FAOS. I'm not going to repeat all those things. I can highly recommend to all rapporteurs to read it because they will then see that there is hard evidence here that we have a major problem with social dumping, at least in construction. And I believe that those of us who know a little about the labour market know that it is very much in other sectors as well. But at least now it's documented. And it is a scary soundboard and a very topical soundboard for the proposals we are discussing here today. I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Karsten Hønge, when he says that these proposals, should they be adopted, do not solve all problems, far from it. One thing is good laws and regulations: we lack that in this area, and that is what these proposals are intended to correct, but there must also be a strong trade union movement to follow it up; and there must be a society that supports the principle that foreign workers in this country must work on equal terms with Danish workers, because that is the core of the matter. There we just have to recognise that there are some who will, but unfortunately there is a majority in this Chamber who do not want to recognise that the EU rules on free movement and the European Court of Justice have caused us very great problems and have gruesomely limited the opportunities for the trade union movement and the Member States to combat social dumping. There's a lot of law and technicalities in this, but the short of the long term is that it's about a level playing field. It is about having the tools to ensure that when there are foreign workers, that is to say posted workers, that is to say, if they come individually and look for work here as a migrant worker, as it is said, then in principle there are no problems • we should have the opportunity to ensure a level playing field. There is therefore no point in ignoring the views of the bourgeois parties and the minister, because the Court of Justice has prevented us from doing so with a series of judgments which we have mentioned here. Therefore, it is insanely important that we establish what principles we are working on when we are going to enter into negotiations on this Posting of Workers Directive. We simply need to ensure that the Member States and their trade unions, if it is now the trade unions that manage it, have the right to demand that employees be covered by the same rules as employees in host countries' own companies. It must be stated that the Member States have the right to implement this requirement of equal treatment with the means that each host State now wishes to use, that is. through legislation, which many EU countries use, or by collective agreements or a combination of both. We have then chosen here in Denmark that it is the social partners and that it is collective agreements. We must ensure that the trade unions in the individual Member States are given the freedom to start collective action, as it says in a fine word, that is, conflict law, in order to ensure that this principle of equal pay for equal work is applied in accordance with the rules currently in force in that Member State. We must make it clear that the Court of Justice does not have jurisdiction to interpret the legality of collective action initiated for the purpose I have just described. And then we have to make it clear that when it comes to defining pay regulations and other provisions relating to employment conditions, it is only national competence. It should have been a matter of course for members of the Danish Parliament to say without further ado: yes, of course we must have it. For that was the prerequisite for Danish membership in 1972. We are so old that we can remember the slogan: The nuts we break ourselves. It was a joint statement by the then chairman of the Danish Employers' Association and the then chairman of the LO who said: "Don't worry, because membership of the EEC, as it was then called, will not affect conflict law and our collective agreement model. It was a clear promise that was made and it was a very important prerequisite for the success of the Danes in voting in favour of membership of the European Community. But history has just shown that that promise did not hold water, which some people also warned against then. It should then be a matter of course, and, indeed, what would be more natural for a Danish Parliament, when one now finds that the promise did not keep water, that the principles have not been respected, than to make those demands to the other countries of the European Union and to the Commission; especially when it is a principle that Danish governments have maintained throughout as recently as in the Viking Line and Laval judgments in 2007, when Denmark made a contribution to the matter, which clearly stated that it is not the EU's competence to interfere in conflict law. It was then told by the Court that Denmark was therefore terribly wrong there. So even then, we should have put our heels in and protested against signing the Treaty of Lisbon. You did not, but now you have a chance, because this Posting of Workers Directive is under negotiation. But then there is a majority in this Parliament who will not. It's the government, it's the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Conservatives. The Socialists do not want to go back to that in a few moments. What is surprising in the argument is that it does not really mean that there is a problem, and if there is a problem, it can be resolved within the EU rules in force through negotiations on the basis of the Commission's proposals. We simply do not want to deal with the real content of the judicial decisions we are discussing here. Let us just take them very briefly: the Viking Line judgment was handed down in December 2007. What was it about? It was about the Court of Justice agreeing with itself that the Court of Justice had the right to interfere in a Finnish ongoing conflict. That was quite a shock report. I will not tire the House of all the legal subtleties that the Court of Justice used. Unfortunately, it was probably right somewhere when you look at the EU rules, as they are screwed up. There, however, the Court of Justice ruled that it is entitled to intervene in the European Court of Justice. A week later, the Court of Justice entered into the conflict initiated by Swedish construction workers in order to ensure that Latvian construction workers in a posted Latvian company would be covered by the same agreement as Swedish construction workers were covered by, in other words, completely in line with the basic position in Denmark on the incompatibility of conflict law with EU rules. The Court of Justice said: No, it is not acceptable because this Posting of Workers Directive only allows minimum wage to be charged, and because, incidentally, there was no legislation on minimum wage in Sweden, yes, for that reason too, the Swedish conflict was illegal. However, what was interesting about the judgment was that it stated that the requirements referred to in the Posting of Workers Directive were the minimum wage, overtime payments and a few other more socially-conditioned claims. That is the maximum that must be demanded. Nevertheless, we can hear the Minister and his colleagues stand up and say that we really do not have any problems that we cannot solve. It is just very interesting why a change of the posting law was made in Denmark if there was no problem with conflict law. It was probably because there was a problem when it came to it. That is where the Laval judgment sent a shock wave throughout the European trade union movement because it turned completely upside down how this Posting of Workers Directive had so far been perceived, i.e. that the scraped minimum requirements set out in that directive are a maximum. It is not legal to conflict, nor to legislate on anything in relation to posted workers who go beyond it. This also means that Member States and their trade unions have been prevented from ensuring a level playing field. That's how simple the problem is. The next judgment was the Rüffert judgment, and it was against a German Land, Lower Saxony, which was told not to require a Polish service provider to comply with the local agreements in this area for German construction workers if the Polish builder concerned was to have a contract with the Land. That was a very clear decision. In other words, the German Land was not allowed to ensure a level playing field by means of the legislation and agreements that were now in place. Then came the Luxembourg judgment. There it was a Member State that was convicted. Luxembourg was told by the Court of Justice that it was prohibited if the agreements in force in Luxembourg were to apply to all companies, not only those from Luxembourg, but also those from other EU countries. So once again a clear decision that we are not allowed to ensure a level playing field. So how can you avoid that relationship? I simply do not understand that. We can only do that if we are actually prepared to see that the minimum wage is good enough, and then we can do it. But there are many other important things in an agreement other than the minimum wage, and as Mr. Karsten Hønge also mentioned, the Danish minimum wage agreements are certainly not geared at all to ensuring a level playing field on that level. So unless you think it is okay with such little social dumping at minimum wage level, it is incomprehensible that we do not support the proposal we have put forward. Then the Minister is sorry that we bring it down to the Chamber. I think that is an inappropriate remark. If we in Parliament are not allowed to discuss what mandate and what objectives a government should pursue in negotiations on such an important issue, then I do not know where else we should be allowed to discuss it. There I agree with the Danish People's Party and thank you for your support on this point. What other options would the Enhedslisten have in order to promote the views that we believe should be promoted? Because that is not the way the negotiations are conducted in the Committee on European Affairs. It is just that if you do not find a majority against the government's proposal for a mandate, it will slip through. So I think that was a very inappropriate remark which does not give a very good indication of a more democratic and open approach to the discussions on the European Union. Then there is the position of the Socialists on both proposals. I have to say that this is an extremely ambiguous affair, because it is in this way in agreement with the individual points. In any case, we have not heard that there should be just one of those people with whom we did not agree. So what's the problem? Then the next battle had to decide how far we could get with it. But then we get such a process excuse that we should not bind the government. Well, if you mean anything by any suggestions, you will of course try to tie the government up on it. That is also the first condition for a government to support the seven other Member States, which have clearly told the Commission that we must now have a review of the Posting of Workers Directive, which guarantees equal pay for equal work. The Commission's proposal by no means does that. There we are, of course, very much in agreement, I think, the Social Democrats and the Enhedslisten. I hope that agreement will also bear fruit tomorrow when we discuss the Commission's proposal and what we do with it. But I think we should be supported if we do not agree with the content of this. That the proposal for a social protocol cannot be supported, I have been astonished at the short comments that have already been made. I just don't get it. The Danish Social Democratic Party, the Danish LO, has met with its Nordic sister and brother parties and organisations and supported the demands of the European trade union movement that we should have such a social protocol. But when it comes to a specific position in this Chamber, you will not be in it. Frankly, I think that's too lax. On the social protocol and then we are over in the slightly more technical discussion, but I would like to say it anyway: this is not about what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has read into it or tried to read into it. He then came to a certain realization of this as the questions progressed. We are not trying to describe a large number of specific requirements. The social protocol is simply about stating that if there is a conflict between professional and social rights, for example. the right of conflict or the right of Member States to protect themselves against social dumping, and freedom of movement, i.e. economic freedoms, must take precedence over professional and social rights. Then there's no point in talking about balance. After all, there is no balance when the Court of Justice has made it clear that we must not impose a level playing field when it comes to posted undertakings. The main purpose of this social protocol is to interpret the specific provisions of the Treaty which have been applied by the Court of Justice when it handed down the judgments in which it intervened in conflict law and intervened in the right of Member States to protect themselves against social dumping. That is why it is so a greeting to the Danish People's Party that such a social protocol will not open up more EU regulation. It will open up less regulation because it will prevent the Court from interfering in areas where it is interfering today. Finally, I would just like to thank you for a good debate. As I said, it was nice to clarify that the bourgeois wing has made the choice. Yes, growth will suffer if we now place so much emphasis on the social rights that Enhedslisten and other parties would like. That's a clear message. It's easy to feel. So thank you for the clear message and thank you for the parties that support the proposal. This is the alternative and the Socialist People's Party, and it is partly the Danish People's Party that supports the proposal for the Posting of Workers Directive. Thank you to these parties for that support, and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161429	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161446	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161503	Thank you. The Government does not agree with Enhedslisten that chain liability legislation is the best way to ensure fair competition and orderly conditions. In general, chain liability legislation, according to the government's assessment, will result in an overall increase in uncertainty and administrative burdens for businesses. Legislation on chain liability in relation to pay and collective claims will not be in line with the Danish model, where, as you know, there is no tradition of regulating wages. On the contrary, it is the desire of the social partners themselves to regulate wages and conditions of employment in Denmark, and the government has no intention of contesting this. But I would like to admit that this is a very topical issue, like the Enhedslisten with motion for a resolution No. B 173 focuses on. Today, therefore, the government has also put forward a legislative proposal on the implementation of the EU Enforcement Directive. This is among other things. a legislative proposal to set up a fund to cover the claims of posted workers. The legislative proposal on this has been in external consultation and we will have occasion to deal with it in this Chamber in the near future. In relation to the introduction of chain liability, I would like to point out that with the draft law on the creation of the Labour Market Fund for Posted Persons, the government is proposing the implementation of the enforcement directive's requirement for chain liability in a way consistent with the Danish model of agreement. I look forward to the forthcoming parliamentary reading of this bill. However, I would like to point out now that what the government has proposed is based on a joint presentation by the LO and DA, and it is the government's assessment that the fund model is, overall, the least intrusive way of implementing the enforcement directive in Denmark. With the common understanding between the LO and DA and with the creation of the fund, it is my view that we have dealt with the issue of securing seconded claims in a Danish way, and that the debate on chain liability is no longer relevant in a Danish context. We have therefore complied with the enforcement directive's requirement to ensure that employees' contractual claims are paid. So it is not the case that nothing is being done to safeguard employees' claims. Something is being done, and what is being done is being done in full agreement with the social partners, and the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161812	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161818	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Well, we can discuss that. It has just been put forward and we have not had time to read it, so it is a little difficult to include it in the discussion in a concrete way at least. So I just want to address the arguments used by the Minister against the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten. I do not understand why the Minister is talking about rejecting it because you do not want to legislate on wages. Well, Enhedslisten doesn't propose to legislate on pay. Where did the Minister get that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161853	If you take Enhedslisten's proposal as it stands, it is of course a proposal for chain liability in relation to a number of listed points • both in relation to contractual terms, in relation to contract pay, tax etc. This means that company obligations are given to a whole chain of subcontractors and subcontractors. It creates uncertainty. But if there isn't a foundation on which to do it, that is, if it's not built up on something clear, then it's completely meaningless. Well, then it's just an elastic in meter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426161931	If the Minister will read the proposal, he will see that it is quite clear what the basis of that chain responsibility is. That is the wage agreed between the company, i.e. the subcontractor down there, and his employees. The agreement can then be either in the form of an individual contract, and it can of course be documented what the salary is agreed to be there or in the form of a collective agreement, and it can be documented what it means. So it is quite clear what the basis is. I simply do not understand the Minister's rejection on the grounds that came there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162010	In other words, Enhedslisten believes that it is a very good idea to legislate on chain liability against the recommendation of the social partners on the contrary. And the second is that Enhedslisten believes that it has solved problems by giving a chain responsibility in relation to e.g. Individually fixed wages of perhaps DKK 65. It's an hour. Well, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162030	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162037	No, that's not what's in it. What lies in it is also an attempt, of course, to protect employees who, at the very bottom of some chain, are exposed to unbearable competition, we have just discussed examples of this in this Chamber, and to protect companies from unfair competition in reality. It is a fact, of course, that the Minister must agree with me that it has been quite difficult in spite of labour law judgments and so on. to recover claims which employees have benefited from in the undertaking in question after having won professional cases. So it is that this proposal has been put forward so that you have a place to go, and I would think that this has a what should we call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162143	It will certainly have a costly effect and an insecure effect. In addition, I also agree that there may be recovery challenges, and these are challenges that we are working on, and I am working on through the establishment of bilateral agreements between Denmark and other EU countries, so that we can have a better legal basis for doing these things, and these are also things that we are improving with the proposal that has not been recognised by the Danish Parliament yet had the opportunity to deal with, but which we come with on the part of the government, which, in relation to a firm basis, in other words, the contract guarantee, creates a much better legal basis and creates much greater security for employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162228	If the proposal contains that fund, and I assume that it is still doing so, as was in the draft legislative proposal, it is, in the view of the Enhedslisten, a strange one, to say the least, that it is proposed that the good employers, who have actually arranged conditions both in relation to their employees but who also calculate VAT and tax, should apparently have to pay to a fund where you can then pay back against the nasty employers who do not have ordered conditions that have run out of the bill, whether it is for VAT or it is for the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162313	I recognise that we cannot discuss the proposal in substance now, but it is at least a fund based on the consensus of the social partners, the private parties to the Danish labour market, to ensure that posted workers to Denmark in a proper way in their view, and that is what we support. It is by a quite different method from the method proposed by Enhedslisten here, which is based on legislation on chain liability, which the social partners in Denmark expressly disapprove of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162350	We thank the Minister and move on to the range of rapporteurs. The first speaker is Mr. Jeppe Bruus as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162358	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten is a re-submission of a similar proposal that we discussed in the Danish Parliament in March 2015 and builds on previous proposals before it. The reason for this is, as Enhedslisten explains, the implementation of the Enforcement Directive. With this proposal, the Enhedslisten wants a general law on chain liability in three areas: the public sector, when it comes to taxes, VAT, the lack of registration for the RUT register, etc., obligations towards workers such as salaries, pensions, etc., when it is apparent from collective or individual agreements on terms and conditions of employment, and finally, obligations towards decisions in the trade or civil law system. Let me make it quite clear if anyone is in any doubt: we Social Democrats are not just supporters of the Danish model, where wage and working conditions are agreed between employees and employers without political interference; we have, as a result, helped to develop that model and protect it, and we think that the model is a cornerstone of the development of our welfare society. After all, the model is based on flexibility and is a safety net flexibility, because the safety of fixed pay and working conditions for employees goes hand in hand with flexibility for employers when it comes to the possibility of hiring and firing employees. These are conditions which are much better for both employees and employers compared to the rest of Europe, largely, at least if you look down south of the border. That is why it undermines the model when employers employ workers for wages well below the agreed minimum wage; it undermines the model when foreign companies do not pay the VAT, tax, etc. to which they are obliged; and it undermines the model when the state does not fulfil its role, which is to be a safety net under those who become unemployed, and also provide training while people are unemployed, and not least to check that there is no cheating and cheating on the things businesses and employers have to live up to. That is why, in our reign, we also used many tools and, above all, funds to strengthen the fight and protect against social dumping, which the current government, unfortunately helped by the Danish People's Party, is tearing down stone by stone. And it is at a time when we have received it yesterday we did a report published on the conditions of Eastern European workers in Denmark which documents what we already know, namely that the pressure on the Danish labour market is great, that wages and working conditions are poor, and what we could then read in yesterday's report from FAOS is that it is also special when it comes to building on private property. And exactly the control of it has been abolished by the government by making sure that SKAT cannot go in and control professional construction on private property. Therefore, the answer to these challenges is also numerous and we need to use many of the tools; we need to ensure that there is still a high level of protection in relation to the fight against social dumping. Then comes the effort with this resolution, which is then about making chain responsibility, and we are not in favour of that. When we are not in favour of it, it is with the same argument as when we were not in favour of it a year ago, namely that when you look at the implementation of the enforcement directive through which the social partners have negotiated, of which the employees have been a part, and which I can now understand Enhedslisten seems to be bad, it is precisely about the social partners having taken care to create a model in which there is also a chain of responsibility without political interference, but as we now promise to law as implementation of the enforcement directive. This is entirely in line with the way we normally implement EU legislation that concerns the labour market, and therefore also provides the opportunity to strengthen the conditions for posted workers in Denmark. Does this mean that chain liability cannot be applied? No, there are different areas, including in the legislative area where chain liability is already built in, let me say, for example. I should also like to mention the VAT area and elsewhere. But we do not support this resolution, and I should like to welcome it from the Radical Left, which unfortunately cannot be present, and say that they are also against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162825	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162831	It is a little disappointing, but of course not surprising, that the Socialists are opposed to this proposal. The rapporteur himself refers to the enforcement directive, and if you read it, you can see that exactly the enforcement directive provides for the possibility of introducing chain liability, even very broad and not just in a single industry. The proposal itself mentioned in the Enforcement Directive is quite limited, but it is precisely contained in the Enforcement Directive that it provides for the possibility of introducing chain liability broadly where the Member States themselves wish to do so. I am therefore surprised that the Socialists do not think this could be a good idea. This is, of course, a means of combating social dumping, which the rapporteur has rightly and very well explained is a huge problem. So it is a means. It is not, of course, the case that this resolution legislates on the content of the agreements, but it is a matter of having a place to go with the bill when it has been found that there has been underpaid here or that there is a lack of VAT and tax. Because today we can see that we cannot do so many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162941	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426162946	There are several elements in this, and we need to keep our tongues straight in our mouths. It is quite right, in relation to the enforcement directive, that it opens up some opportunities. However, it is equally true that the agreement now negotiated by the social partners uses politically to implement the enforcement directive when we now have it presented by the government. I understand that the Enhedslisten is against that agreement. This also runs counter to the way in which we traditionally deal with this labour market matter in a Danish context, and as I think we should also deal with it on the part of the Danish Parliament. I think that if an agreement is negotiated, that is a very good way of implementing it. The questioner then refers here both to VAT and tax, and to the collective issue. In other words, there is both a piece of legislation, and then there is something that is contractual on the labour market and that I can read in the history of at least if you look at the comparable one then we do not lift such agreements up to law in Denmark. And that means that there is something there too which might make the proposal from the Enhedsliste more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163059	One thing is to point out that an agreement has been made, another is that the agreement is to set up a fund in which the employers who are in order in the cases, who pay what is to be paid, both in VAT and in tax and to employees, actually have to pay for all those employers who are not in order and where it is found that they are paying their employees or not paying for VAT and tax. I do not think that the system proposed is very fair. I do not really care that it is a scheme drawn up on the recommendation of the LO and the DA, because it has to be said, as the rapporteur also did in his rapporteur's speech, that the problem of social dumping is a huge problem. And how's it going? There is no lack of funds, such as: a regular chain responsibility would be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163146	We fully share the analysis that this is a serious problem which requires political intervention. To the thing about the fund and the resistance to the good having to pay for the bad: I just want to say to Enhedslisten • Now I'm not allowed to ask questions that it's not an unknown thought. If we look at the field of internship, I actually assume that we agree that it is a very good idea for everyone to pay into a fund and for those who then take responsibility and train apprentices to be reimbursed. So that idea of collective responsibility and ensuring that we have a good labour market on orderly terms, I do not think that is so foreign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163218	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163223	Let us return to the proposal on that fund when we have the opportunity to read the final version of the legislative proposal that has just been put forward today. I would like to deal with the question of chain liability. Now the rapporteur says that there is a chain of responsibility in that fund, but I understand so much that it is not there and the parties agree that it is not there, so I guess that is not an argument. But there is another place where there is actually some chain responsibility, namely in something that we did together with the previous government. It was an excellent circular on how it is felt that the State and other public authorities should apply the requirement for work clauses, i.e. the requirement for proper pay and employment conditions, as a condition for concluding a contract with private companies. There's chain liability in that circular. The word 'chain liability' is not being used, but it is clear that we should demand a guarantee of possible loss of pay all the way down the chain of subcontractors. That's what the rest of us call chain responsibility. That's such a popular word for it. Yes, please!). So if you can use that, why can't you use this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163341	Now we didn't quite get the question. The questioner says he doesn't really want to discuss the fund, but does it anyway. When I read the reasons for this motion for a resolution, it is very clear that Enhedslisten thinks that the fund structure negotiated by the social partners is bad. That's why you want something else. There I am just saying that when we are discussing this substance, the implementation of the enforcement directive, then I think it is appropriate to deal with what has been negotiated by the social partners. I think this is fully in line with the way in which I think we should develop our labour market policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163422	It is fine that you justify your questions, but the question must be asked within the measured time, and we share the sun and wind equally. The questioner for the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163430	That's right... a reprimand, but I'll try to make it short now. After all, it is not an argument against our proposal that the social partners have agreed otherwise. I would like to hear what the rapporteur's arguments are against this proposal, i.e. using chain liability here, when we actually agreed with the previous government and the Social Democrats on the description of a circular containing exactly the same thing, namely chain liability. Then why can't we make general legislation on this? The rapporteur must admit that it will be far more effective than some fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163505	One of the differences I tried to list in my rapporteur's speech was that the circular made it possible for the state to do so, but in fact also optionally for the municipalities if that is what is referred to as introducing it in the context of invitations to tender etc. and, in a way, implement it in cooperation with the social partners. We want a general law on chain liability here, and that is what we are contesting with the reasons I have already mentioned, but now I do not have much time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163532	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163542	Thank you, President. This resolution is, after all, a re-submission of an earlier proposal, which we discussed in 2014-15, and at that time the Danish People's Party wanted us to make a limited chain liability. This means that, for us, it means that anyone who hires a subcontractor who frauds is responsible. The Enhedslisten writes that now you walk away from what you call ordering responsibility and switch to main contractor responsibility instead. Of course, it is also a slight relaxation in relation to it, but it is still not this limited chain liability that we in the Danish People's Party are advocating. We do not believe that it should be a main contractor or contractor to account for 20, 30 months, depending on the size of the contract, but that it is the one who is right ahead and who has made the agreement responsible for ensuring that the person who has been hired is also in order. That is what we said then, and we stand by it. That's why we're having a little trouble with this proposal. We have the same attitude as last time. Nothing has changed much in the direction that the Danish People's Party would like to see if we were to live up to our desire for limited chain responsibility. Then we have this enforcement directive and, of course, we are eager to see how much loosens up in it, because this fund has been created, which the social partners have agreed on, and it is in the field of collective bargaining. We know that there are some who are outside the scope of collective agreements, but many of them may not be those who have any work to do with the major contracts, so that it can be discussed there. We would have liked to have seen it be possible to tighten up a little more on the foreign companies that come to Denmark and work for underpayment, but that is where the government says they should be reported in the RUT register, and there we would have liked to have seen that we could tighten up more or have a slightly more cash attitude to it. We had suggested that a deposit should be made in connection with work in Denmark, and if you complied with the rules, you could get that deposit back. There was no majority in favour of this, but we still believe that this is the way to go for that group. However, right to this point of chain responsibility, I would like to say that, as I said, we are sticking to what we said at the time about our view of limited chain responsibility, and that is why we are abstaining from voting on this. There may be something to work on, and I think we should also look at what comes in that enforcement directive, in other words how effective it will be. We may get an assessment of this when we are going to deal with the bill, although I am not even sure that we can give a real assessment of it for a few years to come. I assume that there is a review in the enforcement directive that you can look at, that is, whether it has had the effect that you wanted it to have when you introduced it here, otherwise we should at least have such a review clause in it, so that you can take it up and see if it meets what you had expected. As I said, it is a good thing that Enhedslisten is putting it forward, and there is also something to work on. It is not the case that we are totally opposed to chain liability. We just have our position on what it should look like, and that position is not entirely in line with that of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163932	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426163937	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. I would like to discuss the proposal that lies here. The second thing we have to look at when we have time and when we have to deal with it. I would very much like to understand what the Danish People's Party's model is really about. Well, let's say there are ten subcontractors. There's a main contractor, and then there's ten subcontractors. They may be in a chain, they may also be ten that are directly contracted with the main contractor. How does the Danish People's Party model work in the two models?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164016	Thank you, President. I don't have to start early. If it is a contractor or contractor who has contracted ten subcontractors, it is the contractor who is in front of everyone, and it is the contractor or contractor who is responsible, but if it is a contractor who has hired a subcontractor who is in turn employed by a subcontractor who is in turn employed by a subcontractor and a subcontractor and a subcontractor, then it is the contractor who is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164052	Thank you, then I think I understand it, but then it just means the same thing, because in the end the demand ends with the contractor anyway, because there will always be a subcontractor who is over and who has made a contract with a subcontractor. The only thing that will happen with the Danish People's Party's proposal is that it will take an infinite amount of time to recover these demands, because the chain is infinitely long and you have to go through all the links before you end up with the main contractor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164124	That is precisely the problem, because the main supplier must then, if you are to have the model that Mr. Finn Sørensen has to go through all of them, and every time a subcontractor hires a subcontractor, the contractor has to go through all of their accounts to see what it's like. It's a very, very troublesome system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164148	The next question is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164155	That's a little wondering. The Enforcement Directive actually provides for the possibility of implementing chain liability, even unlimited, as it were. In other words, it actually leaves it to the Member States to implement the system which is now thought to be in place in each Member State. It is therefore surprising that the Danish People's Party is not prepared to implement, for example. this Enhedslisten proposal for a chain liability. One might say that the proposal we are making is of course central to the contractor or contractor, but it is certainly also intended that it should be the top link in the chain that knows what they are dealing with. After all, they are the ones who offer a main contract or a main delivery and who must therefore also ultimately be responsible for the bid being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164253	Well, that's exactly what I've been explaining. We probably do not entirely agree with the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten on how a chain liability should look.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164300	There are no more questions. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next speaker. It's sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164315	Thank you. As I said, this motion for a resolution is a partial re-submission of a previous motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten from 2014-15. We have the same position as we had last time, and you know the answer: the Left does not support this resolution. The Left wants to see conditions in the labour market regulated, but overall chain responsibility for subcontractors would be an unnecessary financial and administrative burden. It is mentioned in the motion for a resolution that the Metro Company, which was sentenced to pay 22 million. kr. through the professional system, as is the example of why we have to resort to chain responsibility. However, I believe that this shows that the system of professional law works. Then we are convinced that the Folketing should not legislate on minimum wage. This is contrary to the Danish model, and it is one of the pillars of our welfare society, and chain responsibility will undermine this. That is why we need a sensible solution that supports the Danish labour market and the social partners. As I said, the government is now making a proposal on how to deal with the implementation of the enforcement directive, and it is with a provision on chain liability that must be done in the least intrusive way in relation to the Danish labour market model. Among other things, it has to be done. the creation of a fund to ensure orderly working conditions in Danish workplaces. So the conclusion of this resolution is that if this is implemented, it will result in small and medium-sized enterprises being given enormous administrative and financial responsibility to check whether their subcontractors are complying with what they have to do. It is quite unreasonable to want to impose additional burdens on companies in a situation where we just need Danish companies to grow and not shut down. So, on this basis, we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164556	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164602	There are a lot of examples of this being a problem, and we have been well helped here today and yesterday by the new report that has come from FAOS at the University of Copenhagen. It clearly points out that this is a problem and also that it is a serious problem, and I think that is actually acknowledged by both the trade union movement and the employers' organisation. I hear that the rapporteur, like the Minister and others, is still trying to say that this is legislation. Where does the motion for a resolution say that this is legislation on collective agreements? It's not. It does not say that we want to legislate on the content of the agreements. We're not gonna touch that. We're just saying that there has to be a general access for SKAT to go somewhere and print out the bill that we can't many times ascertain can't be printed or that companies run off.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164708	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164711	Yes, but the Enhedslisten must also recognise that when the social partners come and say that the way we can implement the enforcement directive is by means of an agreement to set up a fund that can, like, ensure that, for example, employees who are not paid for what they have to do on the metro construction get what they have to pay for. Does the Enhedslisten not recognise that the social partners are, in such a way, the best at ensuring good pay and employment conditions in the Danish labour market? Or does Enhedslisten think that legislation from here is the right way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164758	Again: there is no legislation from here on the agreements, let alone on the content of the agreements. The fund now proposed at the request of the Danish Employers' Association and the LO is, after all, a fund to which everyone must contribute in order to ensure that those who cheat, those who do not settle for tax and VAT, those who cheat their employees, can run from the bill. There is no incentive in that scheme, and then I don't care if it's on a proposal from the LO and the Danish Employers' Association. There is no incentive in the scheme for companies which intend to cheat and many of them have to adjust in advance and conform to the conditions of the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164842	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164847	I think that what is proposed with a fund is, in fact, a very good model that can ensure that employees who do not get what they are going to pay can be covered, and that is what we are actually in common in Denmark. The companies are in fact common to pay and support the fact that there is actually money for it. That is, of course, the problem today, and now the social partners have reported back and said that this could be a model with respect for the fact that pay and employment conditions remain a matter for the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164920	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426164923	Thank you. I do not understand the talk about legislation, because the rapporteur himself is in favour of legislation that is just a form of legislation with a different content than that proposed by the Enhedslisten. So I don't understand that. I'll tell you what. Would the rapporteur agree that if you make a chain liability, as the Enhedslisten proposes, for that matter also what the Dansk Folkeparti has proposed, just in a slightly different way, then you place the responsibility where it should lie, namely with the supplier main contractor or subcontractor who concludes the contract with another supplier. That is where the responsibility lies. Then we're sure it's located in an effective location. Then it's not just something you pay off from. Then it is something that the main supplier in our case can be hit by, which will make the main supplier very, very careful to make sure that the subcontractors are in order, and that is what is the whole hop in such a proposal. Will the rapporteur admit that it is more effective than a fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165023	Absolutely not. I believe that imposing a chain liability would have insurmountable administrative and financial burdens on companies, Danish companies that can buy goods abroad, for example, and I do not want to be involved in that. I want us to be able to sort this out and do it with, among other things. the fund now being set up by the social partners. There, I believe, we can certainly deal with ensuring that there is pay, including the salaries of those who may have been cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165102	It only has major administrative consequences for the contractor if you assume that all subcontractors cheat, because then there is a whole lot to be watched for, but I wonder if a chain of responsibility will work in such a way that the sheep will be sorted very quickly from the goats, because every contractor will be very, very careful with whom he signs the contract, namely that he will only contract with companies that are in order and possibly make sure that they ask for a guarantee of some kind. Would the rapporteur not agree that we will separate the sheep from the goats and ensure fair competition in the Danish labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165141	I certainly want there to be fair competition, and I am certainly concerned that we have arranged conditions on the Danish labour market, but when the social partners come to us and say that a model with a fund can handle the implementation of the enforcement directive in such a way, I am listening a lot. Then I do not want to go further and, for example, go further here and carry out chain responsibilities. I do not think that is the right way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165208	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165225	Thank you, too. On this motion for a resolution, B 173, I am a kind of substitute for our usual rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen. The proposal here will introduce chain liability so that a contractor is made financially responsible for the subcontractor's negligence, and this applies in relation to public service obligations, to the respect of contracts between subcontractors and employees and to obligations imposed by the trade or civil law system. The Liberal Alliance is opposed to chain liability as a general principle. It should be entirely voluntary for the buyer of services whether they wish to impose chain liability on suppliers in the agreement concluded between the parties. It is certainly also expensive when a contractor has to monitor whether subcontractors meet a number of specified requirements. We find it very difficult to understand why public claims to private companies should be included as part of chain liability. It is for us to see an authority task to ensure that the public receives the revenue that the public is entitled to. Should a subcontractor cheat on taxes or the like, we find it strange that a contractor suddenly has to hang on the bill. In addition to requiring a private undertaking to carry out a regulatory task, it will also create an unfortunate incentive for subcontractors. Nor do we support chain liability on the part relating to pay and working conditions, and we believe that we have a fairly well-functioning labour law system that must interpret and enforce the agreements that are now concluded. To place all the responsibility on the contractor is to undermine the role of the trade union movement in ensuring that companies comply with the agreements they enter into with their employees. The obligations placed on the contractor by this proposal are, for us, unfair and we will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165439	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165448	The EU has instructed Denmark to implement a so-called enforcement directive. The Enhedslist responds to this request from the European Union by tabling a motion for a resolution which has gradually been so well described by the previous rapporteurs that I just have to sum up that the proposal obliges the government to table a draft law on a general law on chain liability, so that main contractors and main service providers are made financially responsible for the omissions of subcontractors and subcontractors respectively in terms of public obligations, obligations to employees and obligations to the civil and professional system on the first two points. The alternative is positive with regard to the proposal. We note that chain liability is not contrary to EU law and we believe that the proposal for a chain liability is a better proposal than the proposal which has been referred to today by the Minister. We understand this so far that the parties to the tripartite negotiations are proposing a labour market fund for posted workers, which all employers have to pay for. also those who do not hire subcontractors who make mistakes or who do not have pure flour in the bag. As I said, we think that a chain liability solution is a better solution, but we also note that the DF and Enhedslisten proposals are very similar in many ways, and if they could agree on a common proposal, it would be even more interesting for the alternative to support it. That would probably not lead to a majority, but it would be more fun to count mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165634	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165646	There has now been a natural opportunity to discuss chain liability when we have to discuss in advance how to implement the enforcement directive. There are, of course, dilemmas in the proposal from the Enhedslisten. Over the years, the SF has balanced between the desire to allow the social partners to deal with as many issues in the labour market as possible and the desire that something should actually happen in this area. The ideal thing would be for the social partners to have long since put together a system that effectively tackles the challenges of some companies leaving bills with individual workers or with society. In particular, the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 has made us ridicule over the years since then for many foreign companies that have earned large amounts of money in Denmark and have subsequently just turned their backs on payroll payments, fines imposed by arbitration, labour law and other obligations. We could simply and can still hear the companies laugh all the way to the bank. Of course, it is a dilemma how we can keep a leash and chain in the companies. As far as the SF is concerned, we can say that we have therefore waited long enough for solutions. The fight against social dumping must be given our full attention and we must be willing to go further. Social dumping is not only a threat to individual workers in particular sectors but a threat to the whole welfare society. That is why SF is positive about the proposal from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165848	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur present in the Chamber. That is why I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426165909	Thank you. Thank you for the debate here today. I think it has been a very good debate in many ways. It is, of course, a very repeat of what we have debated in the past when we have put forward proposals on chain liability, but we do not really think that we can discuss this too often. We do not think so, because we therefore believe that social dumping is a huge problem for the Danish labour market and the way we have regulated the Danish labour market. So thank you to the Danish People's Party, which at least partially supported it. Thanks to the alternative, which is positive about it, and which calls for us to be able to work together on the proposal from the Danish People's Party and ours during the committee work. We are clearly open to this. As the alternative points out, there will probably not be a majority out of it, but okay, we might as well try to gather as many about it as possible. And thanks to the SF, which has also been clearly positive. As I said, we cannot talk about 90 mandates behind the proposal, and that is really a pity. That is a pity, because in fact in this Parliament there is a declared majority in favour of combating social dumping and unfair competition. In this case, we must call for the Socialists to pull themselves together and help manifest the majority for a long-standing wish list in the trade union movement, at least in the foot of the trade union movement, which is struggling every day with social dumping from greedy employers, who are primarily using Eastern European labour. It is also a pity because chain liability will be a really effective means of combating social dumping and unfair competition for companies that do not play by the rules. And that is a pity, because on 9 May we will have to deal with the implementation of the enforcement directive in Danish law, which is due to be implemented in June of this year. It is precisely under the enforcement directive that the possibilities for chain liability exist. This is a very good opportunity to make it clear, as I have done several times in my questions from the House, that the enforcement directive provides for the possibility of introducing chain liability and even provides for the possibility of introducing more far-reaching forms of chain liability than is actually described in the directive. That is why we find in the Enhedslisten that it is unsatisfactory if the Folketing does not avail itself of the possibilities offered by the Enforcement Directive to introduce chain liability. Clearly, this is not envisaged in the draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act, which is intended to implement the Enforcement Directive, and which we have just been talking about in several stages during the Question-answer session. We are well aware that the LO and the Danish Employers' Association are not enthusiastic about the introduction of chain liability by law. To this I would say that we have now had several years and several contractual negotiation situations to implement something that works and has not succeeded. Social dumping is flourishing, and it is despite some of the few initiatives that have been taken. The problems have not diminished. We have just seen the report now from the research centre at the University of Copenhagen, FAOS, which clearly demonstrates that the problem has not been solved, but that, on the contrary, it still has a huge scope and still poses a major threat to the Danish labour market and to Danish employees. Social dumping, which cheats on wages, but also on tax and VAT settlements, remains the greatest threat to our regulated labour market, which is based on agreements on wages and working conditions between trade unions and employers. And since our well-tested labour market model is also a cornerstone of the whole welfare society, social dumping, of course, by its very nature is also a threat to the welfare society. So let me stress once again that with the motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten, there is no indication whatsoever that we are legislating on contractual relations. We are just trying to say that there has to be a place to go with the bill when we find that there are some who either cheat the employees or cheat the state for VAT and tax etc. It is therefore also important to find the most effective means of combating social dumping. And we actually believe that chain liability is one of the most effective means. This is to ensure that the companies that offer a task think very well before it is a very good incentive for a company to look after a possible subcontractor by naturally asking for calculations that show that there is actually work for contractual wages and that you have order in the accounts, so that VAT and tax are also settled and what else needs to be settled. And with the knowledge of a main contractor or contractor to its territory, such a firm will soon know whether there are owls in the bog when tenders are coming from subcontractors or subcontractors, as the enforcement directive says, and which, of course, cover completely broadly. Do you not think the main contractors and main suppliers will secure against losses further down the chain through the requirement of a guarantee, i.e. a bank guarantee? It will only be one way to make sure that it is understood in the sense that if a subcontractor says that it will not be asked, yes, he will of course not get a chance. And I wonder whether a main contractor and contractor would prefer to use companies that are in order, perhaps in reality, through membership of an employers' association? There are some who would argue that chain liability by law is contrary to the Danish labour market model I have mentioned that but in our best opinion it is nonsense. There is not a word in the B proposal to legislate on the content of the agreements. What chain liability means is that the companies which use subcontractors and subcontractors respectively have a responsibility for ensuring that the agreements or agreements between the company and the employees which they will hopefully have signed up to, work under and have been negotiated through their organizations are not undermined and that the very same main suppliers and main contractors respectively are not tempted to use other firms which do not have purely flour in the bag to carry out the tasks involved in the task offered, in an attempt to make their own offer cheaper and thus to impose unfair competition on other companies, other firms. That is why, in fact, we also think that this B proposal is much better than the draft law put forward by the government on a labour market fund for posted workers, with the reservation that it has only just been put forward today, and that so far we have only seen the draft bill itself, where all the employers who comply with their obligations in terms of pay, etc., are apparently required to pay for those employers who do not comply with their obligations. I find that incomprehensible. I find it quite incomprehensible that the Minister, with a past in the Danish Employers' Association, may think that it is fair to, among others. many of the DA's own member companies in the organizations which are now affiliated to the DA. In fact, we think that the introduction of chain liability is much fairer and, as I said, a far, far more effective means of combating social dumping in the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426170743	There is one point I should like to make. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426170745	Thank you. Now the rapporteur also mentions it here at the end and thunders against this fund structure as something that would be completely unfair or unknown. I assume that the rapporteur can confirm that the Enhedslisten is for both the Barselfond and what is called AUB, i.e. the employers' training contributions to internships. The idea of creating a fund structure in the labour market is not an unknown phenomenon. I understand that the terms here are some others. But how can it really be that Enhedslisten is so opposed to employers contributing collectively and that a number of rights are then entered into for posted workers, and thus there is also a regulatory mechanism of those companies that use to outperform competitors who are in control of the conditions? I don't understand. Can the rapporteur not try to elaborate on what this great ideological opposition is to the construction of the fund in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426170844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426170845	After all, we do not have any ideological resistance to fund constructions. But this is a fund designed to compensate for cheating and deception committed by certain companies. I think that is quite something quite different from the fact that you have an employer's pupil's payment or that you have a maternity fund. It is a question of solving a problem which has been identified, but there is no question of anyone suddenly having to pay for someone who is simply cheating and cheating. It is, of course, to increase educational efforts and to enable people to have proper maternity leave. Furthermore, we believe that our own B proposal is far more effective in the fight against social dumping. The proposal for a fund with all sorts of reservations as to what the actual draft law looks like, I would like to stress that does not provide any incentive for companies to comply with the rules. On the contrary, I would almost say. I suppose that gives some sense of feeling that: Well, there is someone paying for me if I don't comply with the rules, so why would I actually do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426170951	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426170952	Well, we'll find out when the model is laid out. I find it hard to believe that such a foundation structure has been created as a gift book for companies that cheat and deceive. Nor can I imagine that is what Enhedslisten really thinks it will end up with. There are, of course, some sanction options built into it. I don't understand this thunder against implementation, and Enhedslisten shouldn't get away with saying that it doesn't really matter in this context. No, that is the whole reason for this motion for a resolution. This is the implementation of the enforcement directive. Now there is a model that the social partners have negotiated, and the Enhedslisten makes a proposal that the LO is opposed to, and then you stand and thunder against the social democracy and all sorts of others in order not to take it seriously. Well, I just don't understand the position here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171035	It's not that difficult. It is clear that the Enhedslisten as party has the right at all times to make a B proposal and to try to obtain a majority for it, whether there is any recommendation from the social partners, in this case the LO and DA. So we have no problem with that. When we compare our own motion for a resolution with that draft law, with all the reservations that I keep emphasising, I must take before I have seen the final draft law, it is my clear opinion that the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is an effective means. It places responsibility for pay and working conditions, and that VAT and tax are charged in the right place, namely with the main contractor or supplier who makes an offer. It must be more effective than the other, where some employers have to pay for other employers who are not in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171127	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else will ask questions to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the second round, and we shall give the floor to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Jarlov, who unfortunately didn't just make it to the first round, but we're taking it now. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171145	Thank you. I should also like to explain the Conservative People's Party's position on the motion for a resolution. We're so against you, you can even imagine that you can be. In fact, we think this is a rather crazy proposal. I sometimes wonder, when I see Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, whether people from the Enhedslisten know anyone who has a company at all. Because I think that if they had a dialogue with people who operate, they would probably know what a nightmare it would be if you were to sit and watch your subcontractors, whether they comply with all kinds of rules, agreements and everything else, and then be accountable for it. This would simply lead to the need for a recording equipment in companies with many suppliers, which would make it extremely expensive to operate. I think there can only be two options: either Enhedslisten knows no one who is operating, or you completely do not care about the costs that companies are being charged with with a resolution like this. If that is the last, I think it is a really strange attitude to take, because it must also be the case for Enhedslisten that we recognise that it must be as easy as possible to operate, otherwise there will be no jobs. There must be limits to how much you can bother businesses. So this is totally unfair. We should go after those who violate the rules, instead of leaving it the case that if you have a supplier who is going to violate some rules on the Danish labour market, then you have to be punished for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171328	There are a few questions, first from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171329	The last statement by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, I would just like to remind you of when we are going to deal with the proposal for a fund for secondment, because this is actually what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov criticizes. Otherwise, I have to say: yes, it must be easy to operate, but it must also be fair. It must be fair competition with employees, and it must be fair competition with companies. As I have said, among other things. My rapporteur's speech: is it not also the case that the main contractors and main suppliers know their lice very well? They have such a good knowledge of the industry in which they operate that, of course, they are aware and very quickly can see through if there are offers coming in from subcontractors, whether it is worth going deeper into it. You can quickly see whether this is a fair offer based on orderly conditions, on decent wages, on contractual wages, and that VAT, tax and so on are charged. And that is why I do not believe that such companies need to set up huge control mechanisms to check it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171441	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171443	Of course they can't quickly. How on earth should they have knowledge of • I just list some of the things up • tax, VAT, fines, health and safety legislation, pay, pension, holiday money, insurance and other items that may appear in collective or individual agreements, agreements, etc.? How on earth would you know about all this from your subcontractors? It is quite unreasonable that, just because you are dealing with a company, you have to be financially responsible and be able to be fined because they do something that you have no chance of seeing through. I believe that Enhedslisten stands very alone with the view that it should be easy to understand it. In any case, no company owner will be able to sign that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171529	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171530	This is due to the fact that the problem has arisen in the Danish labour market, that there are a number of companies, mainly foreign companies, which are coming from the bill, who subpay their employees and who do not settle for VAT and tax. If you're gonna come after them, you need a place to go with the bill. And it would be natural to go to a main contractor who knows very well the situation in the industry and therefore knows very well in advance, when the offers come in, whether there is reason to be attentive and therefore not necessarily ask for accounts, and what do I know you don't need to do, but you can secure a bank guarantee. It can be ensured that if claims are suddenly made against the company in question, and the main contractor will be hanging on the bill, there will be money for it, in other words because a bank guarantee has been provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171620	What is natural is that you go to the people who violate the rules. It is also not the case elsewhere in Danish society that because you cooperate with certain people, you are responsible for their offences or rule violations. It is also not the case that we come after Enhedslisten, if you have bought some product and then there is a company that has violated some rules. I think it is completely in the woods and that it is a totally unreasonable burden to lay down on some companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171645	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171647	Well, you can paint the bureaucracy so big, and then nothing can be done. What's kind of shining through in mr. Rasmus Jarlov's position is that employers in this country have no obligation to ensure that there is fair competition. That is the purpose of chain responsibility. After all, there are very simple ways to secure against loss. But what made me press the button to get the floor was Rasmus Jarlov's perception that we are all alone in the world with it. The letter A4 carried out a survey a few years ago, unfortunately I do not have the exact date, but I will find the reference to the rapporteur ■ among the master craftsmen, who showed that 74 per cent. of them are in favour of chain responsibility. They are in favour of a contractor or a municipality providing tasks requiring that there are contractual arrangements all the way down the chain, and that is because the small master craftsmen have seen that they are exposed to unfair competition precisely because of the posting directive we have just discussed under the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171757	What you are responsible for is that you abide by the rules yourself. You don't have to be responsible for whether someone else does. I can imagine that there will be small suppliers who think that it is an advantage if those to whom they provide are placed on some major burden to ensure that others who may compete under some other conditions are kept out. But I don't think you get any of those who are being imposed on these rules on chain liability, and that's what was my claim before you think it should be a good idea for them to control all their subcontractors. The fact that subcontractors then think it is a good idea can be imagined, but those who get the huge control task will hardly think it is a particularly good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171842	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171843	I think that is quite right, because the big employers in this country do not see that they have quite a lot of obligations or that they have to do something. They just have to enjoy. Well, that's kind of the basic attitude. That's just where the water divides. We are not going to put an end to social dumping, which everyone is talking about is a bad thing, including representatives of large companies, if not all promises are made. It is no use simply leaving that task to the trade unions alone, because then we will not get through with it because we are up against great powers, among other things. EU rules. So it is simply a question of basic attitudes: do you think that the big companies should have some obligations or that they should not? That is the crux of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426171934	That is not the crux of the matter at all. All large companies recognise that they must comply with rules in Denmark. I think it is nonsense to say that large companies have the attitude that they should just enjoy without giving anything, given that it is the companies that drive all the wealth in our country and pay so much tax. Then I just want to say that I understand Enhedslisten's frustration that there are some things you can't do anything about, but I'm just asking you to remember that the medicine you prescribe mustn't be worse than the disease you try to cure. Therefore, even when you find it difficult to find good solutions, you have to refrain from crazy solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172008	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172022	The debate is open and the first speaker is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172042	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance for tabling the motion for a resolution. Nearly a year ago, the Folketing discussed a motion for a resolution from the then opposition to amend the river basin law. Today, we are again discussing almost the same proposal, but a lot has happened since we took over government power. One of the things that has not changed, however, is the big focus on watercourses: on large streams, small streams, streams with too much water and streams with too little water. The river basin is an area in which there are many opinions and interests to take into account. That is why it was one of the first areas we started to look at when the present government came into being, because we will not stand by and watch good agricultural land be taken out of production, because watercourses cannot be sufficiently directed away from land. Watercourses must be maintained so that they can ensure a proper drainage of water, but this must of course be done so that at the same time nature and the environment are taken into account. We're doing a lot of work on this. Firstly, a letter has been sent to the municipalities stating that they must ensure that public watercourses are maintained so that they comply with the requirements laid down in the regulations. However, public watercourses are only approx. 25% of the open Danish streams. Compared with the remaining approx. 75% It is the private broad-owners who have the obligation to maintain the watercourses. Secondly, a research group has been set up to make recommendations on how crop cutting should be carried out in order to take into account, as far as possible, both drainage and natural and environmental water quality requirements. The recommendations must form the basis for the Danish Nature Agency to draw up a proper guide on crop cutting. The research team's draft is on the way in consultation with stakeholders. The guidance itself is expected to be ready sometime after the summer break. This does not mean that new methods of crop cutting will solve all problems, but it is a step in the right direction. Thirdly, among the bourgeois parties, an agreement has been reached on a food and agricultural package stating that the criteria for when a watercourse should be included in water planning must be reviewed so that narrow, flat and dug watercourses should not be part of the river basin plans in the future. The municipalities and local water councils will be involved in that work. Once the results of these initiatives are available and come from the municipalities' evaluation of their climate adjustment plans, we have a good overview of where there may still be problems with the discharge of water. I will take that knowledge with me, considering at a later stage the launching of a major investigation work in which I will review the existing legislation that has an impact on water dissipation, so that we can better safeguard both country and city against flooding and dumping, so that people do not lose great values, whether on land or in city. We have long focused on the need for climate protection for our cities, but it is important that we also address the need for climate adjustment in the open country. The Liberal Alliance's proposal contains three sub-proposals. Watercourses shall primarily serve drainage purposes. Such a change in the law would mean that in all watercourses the watering interest would always have to be given priority, no matter how great or small this interest is. This will mean that Denmark will have difficulty in meeting our obligations in relation to the EU Water Framework, Habitats and Birds Protection Directives, unless we implement significant compensatory measures. In the worst case scenario, the cost of compensatory measures can amount to a very considerable amount if we are to prevent deterioration of the aquatic environment. It is also important to bear in mind that even if we resolve a drainage problem locally in one place, we may risk moving the problems to another place further down the river. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution states that the river basin law must be amended so that the municipality must prove that it is necessary to derogate from the requirements of the regulations for maintenance for environmental reasons. It should be stressed that it is already the case that according to current administrative practice, the municipality must provide the professional basis for determining whether a change in watercourse maintenance would harm or not harm the habitat types and species designated by a Natura 2000 site to protect. In the administration of the Watercourse Act, it is also the responsibility of the municipality to assess whether a modified watercourse maintenance will destroy or damage breeding or resting areas for a number of species covered by the Habitats Directive. The final element of the proposal is to remove watercourses from section 3 of the Nature Conservation Act and move them to the Watercourse Act, so that the protection of watercourses is based on a basis that allows the adaptation of watercourses' watering capacity based on an overall balance of considerations of drainage, nature, environment and climate adaptation. The reason why watercourses are part of section 3 of the Nature Conservation Act is the protection of watercourses as habitats for wild plant and animal life in interaction with the surrounding bogs, meadows and lakes, as well as ensuring the open course of the watercourses as green corridors through the landscape, so that the streams are not completed, dug up, refurbished or similar. The protection helps to meet the requirements of the Habitats Directive to protect selected habitats and habitats for a number of species. The protection provided for in Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act does not mean that changes in conditions in the protected watercourses cannot be made without derogation. General maintenance of watercourses, including maintenance in accordance with the river basin regulations, and maintenance of drains do not require derogation, but regulation of watercourses such as: changing the profile or deepening does. In such cases, the municipality has the power to take decisions. There is therefore a good correlation between the rules of the Watercourse Act and the Nature Conservation Act. A year ago, the Left was one of the authors of the motion. Today we cannot support the proposal. This is because we're changing the law on watercourses now will be like reading the end of the book first. I am not saying that the government will never change the law on watercourses. I say that the time is certainly not right right now. However, as I said, I am considering initiating legislative preparatory work on a possible amendment of the river basin law once we have seen the results of the initiatives already initiated by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172651	There are questions from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172653	Thank you. After all, the minister is not responsible for what the minister's predecessor did, but the minister himself brought this shepherd's letter, which was sent to the country's municipalities last November, 2015, on the field. The essence of the shepherd's letter may well be said to be: Remember, municipalities, that you must abide by the law. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that the municipalities are not complying with the law or why such a shepherding letter should be sent out, because it should be a little vague if there is no problem in complying with the law. Otherwise, there were probably thousands of areas where shepherd letters could be sent out if it was not about whether the law was observed or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172737	Thank you for the question. I think there is an incredibly good reason why a letter was sent out to the municipalities, because there have been challenges with river maintenance around the country in relation to water management, and I think everyone has seen that there has been dumping and the like. I do not think this has been of bad will from the municipalities, but in some places there may be doubts about who is responsible where and how, and it makes only good sense to have a frank discussion with the municipalities about it. For example, there may be challenges when it comes to water running from a stream into a fjord. Who is responsible for it if there are cloggings there or the like. So in my world and in the government it makes very good sense to have that dialogue with the municipalities of the country, also on the basis of a shepherd's letter. So I am not saying that illegal acts have taken place; I say it makes great sense to have that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172823	The questioner on the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172825	Now the Minister talks about a large number of things, which we hope we can also discuss today, so that we can also get some facts on the table: what happens when the land is printed, and a lot of other things, when we see water in the fields. I would just like to ask the Minister if he believes that six cases in total in 2013 and 2014, where a complainant was entitled to the conclusion that a municipality, out of all the municipalities in the country, had complied with their obligations in relation to watercourse maintenance, i.e. whether three cases a year in all the municipalities in the country are sufficient to send a shepherd's letter saying that you should remember to comply with the law. That's why we also have a complaint system in this country, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426172916	I believe, as I also said in my first answer, that it makes great sense to have a frank dialogue with the municipalities of the country on these matters. These are great landscape values; they are great values in relation to people's private property if floods occur due to lack of watercourse maintenance, etc. It is therefore extremely important, both that the municipalities are very keen on how and how they handle their task and that we have a responsibility. After all, we have received a letter from KL and Agriculture & Food, which suggests that there among other things. must be seen in the law on watercourses, and that is because there may be cases of doubt. There may be discussions about how to carry out watercourse maintenance and the like. To be honest, it's not just something you do every day. It is a difficult discipline in relation to watering in our streams and streams. That is why I am of the opinion that I would very, very much like to have a frank dialogue with the municipalities of the country on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173011	The next thing for a brief comment or question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173017	Thank you and thank the Minister for a fine statement. I am, perhaps not surprising to the Minister, of course disappointed that there is now no support from the government and the Left for this resolution, despite the fact that the Left, together with the Liberal Alliance and the other parties in the blue bloc during the last session, tabled a similar motion for a resolution. The minister says it would be a bit like reading the end of a book first. I can tell the Minister that this is actually something I do sometimes. But thank you for the initiatives that have already been taken, namely the shepherd's letter and the crop-cutting guide, which the Minister described in his statement here. The Minister also said at one point that it certainly does not solve all the problems. Then I would like to hear what the Minister thinks can solve the remaining problems in the watercourse area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173116	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173118	Thank you for the question. And I can reveal that I never read the end first when I read a book. It is clear that when researchers are now required to make recommendations for consultation, there will be a number of stakeholders who will come up with input and input into the consultation process, and it should, of course, make it possible for us to have better watercourse maintenance, which, on the one hand, ensures watering and, on the other, ensure a good environmental status in our watercourses. Therefore, I do not see in advance that there are problems in category A, B or C, but think that we should have much more discussion with the municipalities and with the pilot owners, because there are also many private watercourses, so that we ensure that the watercourses have the function they should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173200	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173206	Thank you for your reply, and thank you also for saying earlier that the government may be considering a change of law at a later stage, but that the timing for that is not the right one. Does the Minister not agree with KL that there are case-law and rulings of the Board of Appeal, etc., which make it impossible for the necessary adaptation of watercourse maintenance to take place at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173239	Well, I certainly believe that the things that KL claims are a challenge in relation to our watercourse maintenance, and that is also why I have sent the signal that the government has thought about following the recommendations made by KL and Agriculture & Food in an approach both to me as Minister, but also, as I recall, to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173303	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173307	Thank you very much. There were a lot of things you could do here. I would like to address some of the many myths that exist, why farmers' fields are being flooded. For basically, it's no wonder when you've drained a whole lot of old and wet meadows and turned them into farmland. And when it has been cultivated intensively for years, so that the humus layer has disappeared, so that the soil layer is now much deeper, it is no wonder that with rising rainfalls there will be flooding. It is simply not true that this is about watercourses not being maintained. Does the Minister not recognise that there is this link between drainage and wetlands and floods on the day of climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173359	Thank you for the question. I certainly recognise that there is a link between rainfall and how land magnifies. I certainly do. But I certainly also recognise that there is a connection between whether the cutting of porridge is sufficient to get a flow of water through our streams and streams.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173415	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173417	That's very interesting. There are researchers who have studied that the more you remove, the more you benefit rapidly growing plants, so the more you promote a problem that you continue to have to solve with huge costs for the municipalities. But if you leave the streams more naturally, you will benefit all the life that is the streams, but at the same time you will also get a growth that can be kept alive in the watercourses themselves. So what we are doing, if we cut the crop to a large extent, as the Liberal Alliance is proposing here, is to increase the problem that needs to be solved in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173455	That is the question. After all, we have asked a number of researchers, and I do not know whether the rapporteur is a researcher in this area, to make recommendations on crop cutting methods, so that we both have an effective cutting of the crop, while at the same time we also have a protection of the natural state that must be in our creeks and watercourses. I look forward very much to getting those recommendations. I think it'll make us all smarter. It is possible that there are members of the high thing, who are experts in porridge cutting. I am certainly not, and that is why I am very much looking forward to having the recommendations made by the Professor's or Researcher's Group, but also to the response of both the green organisations, agriculture and the like, so that we have a qualified debate on this. Because I think that all Members here are interested in both watering, but also having a good environmental status in our streams and streams.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173545	The last thing I would like to make is a brief remark, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173550	At the risk of starting to read the book from behind, I shall reveal the conclusion of the Social Democratic Party and our position here in the debate, namely that we cannot support this proposal either. We cannot do this because we think that the balance is tipping with the Liberal Alliance's proposal. We believe that the Liberal Alliance goes too far by making water dissipation the primary purpose of the Watercourse Act. What I really just wanted to ask the Minister is whether the Minister also believes that the Liberal Alliance's proposal goes too far by making the water dissipation the primary purpose of the river basin law. I heard the Minister say that it would be voted against by the government, so I almost assume that this is the case. But I would like the Minister to say a little about whether this is going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173636	Well, when the government rejects the resolution, it is because we need to have that recommendation from the researchers in relation to crop cutting, and when we have it and have had the hearing to follow, we have an opportunity to decide what tools we should then use. For me, streams and streams are all about the fact that they are both aquifers and that we have some obligations in relation to environmental objectives. At the same time, of course, it is also important that I believe that everyone who has been sitting especially in the last period, when we have discussed streams and streams to a large extent, agrees that we will have complete clarity about what are actually water-leading creeks and streams; in what should we have a good environmental target state, and what are just drainage channels and the like? It's not a red, blue, green or yellow vue on it. It is simply a question of finding out where we are going and where we are not going to take action. We need to clarify this with, among other things. the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173730	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173733	Now it was perhaps too much to ask the Minister to give air to the Liberal Alliance's desire to make it the primary purpose of the River Law, that is to say, water dissipation. But then I can ask in another way, because I know that the Minister and I like watching TV MIDTVEST, which is a great TV channel. On 12 January, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, on TV MIDTVEST, and he says here and now I quote: there must be a balance between respect for drainage of our terrain and a good environment. There has been a gliding in that balance, so that one has not had enough focus on water entering the sea. We need that back so that the main purpose of the creeks is to divert water from our terrain. Does the Minister agree that the primary purpose of our watercourses should be to divert water from our terrain?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173824	I fully agree that we have a very good watercourse rapporteur in the Left who has been involved for years in this matter and who has a strong focus on both protection and use in relation to our rivers and streams. That is why I am also clearly of the opinion that streams and watercourses must take water away, while at the same time there must be a good environmental target state, and I also believe that this is a view shared by my rapporteur. Whether or not it has come out quite clearly in the statements made on TV MIDTVEST, I dare not say, because I have not seen the report in the context that Mr. Simon Kollerup is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173859	Thank you, Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. The first speaker is the rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426173912	The motion for a resolution we are debating today reiterates three of the elements of B 145 from last year and, in short, is that watercourses should serve mainly drainage purposes rather than nature and environmental purposes. When B 145 was tabled, Denmark had a Social Democratic Minister for the Environment who clearly said no to the elements of this proposal, and much has changed since then. One might be tempted to say that there is a lot of water under the bridge, although the Liberal Alliance will probably object that there is too little water under the bridge, in the light of this proposal. Denmark, for example, has. no longer an environment minister with one resort. Unfortunately, Denmark no longer has a government that will find the right balance between environmental considerations and the interests of the industry. However, there is one thing that has not changed, and that is that the Social Democrats still cannot support this proposal. We still believe that a balance needs to be struck between environmental considerations and considerations of growth and employment. We still believe that this proposal does not reflect that balance. Firstly, the proposal proposes a unilateral clarification of the river basin law so that it is clear that watercourses are intended to serve drainage purposes. In other words, dewatering interests must take precedence over environmental considerations. The balance must be tipped, one must understand. We basically disagree with that. Watercourses must be provided both for farmers, for nature, for anglers and for the environment. The 1983 Watercourse Act has just been put in the world to weigh those considerations, and we are not quite interested in changing that balance. We want a law on watercourses to resolve the conflicts that may arise between the various considerations. It is important to make it clear that drainage considerations and considerations of the environment and nature are not always contradictory. Often it is possible to strike a reasonable balance, and that is what our law on watercourses must contribute to. By the way, several of our municipalities have shown that they can do so. It is also important, of course, that in this context we consider how to spread the best practice to the other municipalities in the country. In this way, we can ensure the balance between the environment and drainage throughout the country. I welcome the fact that increased rainfall is a challenge. On the other hand, I completely disagree with the fact that crop cutting can solve the problems associated with climate change on its own. Firstly, the changes are a hint that we should not relax the ambitious climate change course, in which the government has unfortunately proved to be champions. Secondly, there are already instruments in the river basin law that enable increased rainfall to be dealt with. For example, there are instruments that can finance water storage. Finally, it has to be said that it will be difficult to comply with our EU commitments if we allow concern for our environment to give way to watering down. It can have major consequences for Denmark and can end up in a bill for agriculture and for the environment if, for example, the European Union does not want to approve our rural programme because we are relaxing the protection of the aquatic environment. No one is interested in that. The Liberal Alliance also wants the burden of proof to lie with the municipality in the specific cases where there are doubts as to whether watering considerations should take precedence over environmental considerations. In this context, I should just like to say that it has always been the responsibility of the municipalities to provide the necessary basis for establishing whether a drainage of a river can be kept within the framework of EU law. Finally, the Liberal Alliance wishes to remove section 3 of the protection of watercourses. The Socialists do not believe that § 3 protection is a barrier to the maintenance of watercourses. In the event of major changes, derogations can be sought, as the Minister also explained in his speech, to ensure drainage. At the same time, it will have consequences for nature protection if protection is removed, and it will go out and animal and plant life. So, on this basis, I can say that the Socialists cannot support the proposal, but I would like to say that, of course, we are listening when the set up working group we have set up... it then exists, I understand, no longer, but then there will be another group to report in. We want to help look at the river basin law, but it just needs to be in the right balance, where the environment and drainage considerations are better balanced with each other. So with these comments, I must say that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174412	I have three comments to make in short. The first is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174420	Thank you, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which quite rightly quoted that the motion for a resolution calls for clarification of the river basin law so that it is clear that watercourses serve drainage purposes. Neither the word nor the word is mentioned primarily in this context. It is, as the rapporteur also asked the Minister about earlier, I believe that the rapporteur for the Rivers of the Left has used the word primarily. However, I would like to hear from the Social Democrats' rapporteur whether they do not recognise KL's input on the difficulty of making the necessary adjustments to watercourse maintenance in the light of the case law and the complaints and appeals orders that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174523	However, I think I would say that if you read the motion for a resolution, you cannot have so much doubts as to what is the primary purpose of the word 'primarily' in the motion for a resolution or not. It is shown quite clearly that the drainage purposes are the ones that fill the most. I am not entirely sure that environmental considerations are really mentioned in the resolution. However, the rapporteur can say a little about this when he has his second comment in a moment. It is clear that we in the Social Democratic Party always listen when the KL says something, of course, as a former municipal rapporteur I can sign it so much. That is why, at the end of my speech, I also say very clearly that we want to take part in looking at the law on watercourses. It is not such a thing that is chiseled in granite, so you cannot look at whether you can do things differently. We are just saying that when you do this, you have to ensure that the balance between drainage and environmental considerations is there. And we just can't see that in this resolution. Here we see that it clearly focuses on the drainage purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174623	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174626	Thank you. In fact, it is in the very last sentence stated that it is not certain that Mr. Simon Kollerup reached the conclusion that it should be based on the overall balanced consideration of drainage, nature, environment and climate adjustment. It is just to clarify that. Does the rapporteur not agree with me, moreover, that it might well be necessary to amend the law, given that no changes have taken place since 1983?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174657	Yes, if you can find the right balance in it. Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, who was Social Democratic Minister for the Environment, set up a working group to look at this. I have understood here today that it has been dropped and where stakeholders should bid. It was precisely in order to get the balance of the recordings that must be for a possible legislative review. Now they have been turned into consultative parties, and that is perhaps a step down the ladder, I cannot say that. But the bottom line that remains for us is that the Social Democratic Party would like to take part in looking at the legislation in Denmark, and there is nothing that is untouchable in this way. What is important to us, and which is a principle that is enshrined, is the balance, and we lack that balance, even though we have remembered in the last line to write something about the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174745	Next, for a brief comment, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174750	Thank you. I would like to sign because the rapporteur is open to looking at legislation made more than 30 years ago. There's been a lot of water running in the creek since, if I may say so. So thank you for that commitment. However, I would also like the rapporteur to recognise that many people are experiencing major problems around the watercourses. It is not just farmers we are talking about here. It is also pilot owners who have gardens and cellars close to the streams. It is even sports fishermen who find it difficult to get down and find the river because large areas are flooded, and sometimes fish are splashing up in the field. It is therefore a broad section of the population who feel that there is an increasing problem because we have had more water over the last 100 years. We're getting more monsters now because of climate change. In addition, the watering capacity is proven to have been reduced in many streams, and then it has to go wrong in the form of floods. Does the rapporteur recognise that we have a problem with getting water into the sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426174847	I fully recognise that there are challenges that need to be addressed. But I also see a side of the Parliamentary Chamber in here which is very one-sided in relation to what is going to happen: crop cutting, drainage. I think the Minister really had a very good balance if we are to give it to the Minister. You can cut your way through it all, but where does the water end up? It is not all the water that I quoted the rapporteur for earlier when I asked the Minister who ends up in the sea. Something's gonna end up down in Holstebro town, too. Something's gonna end up anywhere else where it's not gonna end. That is why we need to keep in mind the balance, and that is why this debate, how unhelpful it may be, is nuanced and the demands for nuances in this are great. That is why I would also like to say about the undertaking that was given for the debate and, of course, I am glad that it was precisely for our desire to look at this area that I am a little bit sceptical about the basis on which we are going to look at this. After all, it has now been changed to a group of experts and we have been able to read in BT and elsewhere that sustainable agriculture has, in this way, been a pen operator for almost the entire mandate for it, so we are sceptical but interested in discussing the issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175004	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175004-2	Now I don't think we should dig ditches. We should try to find solutions here. It is quite clear that an effective diversion of water to the sea must go hand in hand with a good environment. But it is now the case that the streams are originally set in the world to divert water. On this premise, of course, we must ensure a good environment. When I hear the debate, it sounds as if there are contradictions: the fact that we are making a more efficient water dissipation with a wide range of instruments that hydrologists and biologists have found in harmony cannot go hand in hand with a good environment. That is the premise that I am a little sorry that the Social Democratic Party is putting forward. Can't diverting water and a good environment go hand in hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175047	One would like to say that I do not understand the Left at all. If there are no more ditches to be dug, I don't understand why the problem should be so big, but leave the joke. It is in fact the Left itself that raises doubts about it. It is even the rapporteur himself who, on TV MIDTVEST on 12 January, where I myself sat and saw it, says that the primary purpose of the rivers, the creeks, should be to divert water. That's where you break your balance. So when the rapporteur asks me whether I want a balance between drainage and environmental considerations, I would say that I do. Do I experience that the Left stands for the same balance? Not when I watch TV MIDTVEST and something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175132	The next brief remark is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175136	Those are some exciting statements that come up in the Folketing here today: Watercourses are first and foremost set in the world to water down the farmer's fields. Rarely have I heard anything so crazy. Well, I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because there has actually been a change in the Ministry of the Environment. There was a working party under the previous government and it has now been closed down and replaced by another watercourse working group, among other things. accompanied by a comment from the former Minister for the Environment and Food on something about the hated watercourses. Now I think that the rapporteur knows a lot about the former river basin group, so what differences does the rapporteur think exist between the two watercourse groups, which, if you listen to at least the current environmental minister, must have a balanced view of environmental and natural considerations and dewatering purposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175233	I was just worried that it was an extract of my own speech that the rapporteur started by reading. Because I couldn't remember having covered my words like that, and I don't think I did either. I think it was a minister or someone else who was reproduced by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. I also found, in fact, only very recently that the working group that was set up, in which stakeholders around watercourses should play in and make recommendations for this, has now been replaced by the group of experts or research groups that have been so mentioned here during the first months of the year. One of the things that concerns me is that the stakeholders have moved to a right of consultation, that is to say, a lower rank in this, and then it can only worry when it has been as clearly advanced as it has been here that the whole basis of the work of the working group, namely the mandate, has been so closely dictated and almost written with the help of sustainable agriculture, which is a very one-sided organisation of interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175329	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175330	I apologise if I confused the rapporteur. I was just surprised at the remarks made by the rapporteur of the Left just before I was given the floor. Does the rapporteur feel confident that there is a watercourse group in the Ministry of the Environment working from a mandate written very unilaterally by one of the most extreme lobbying organisations in Danish agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175357	As I said to the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, it is certainly something that makes you more sceptical about the material presented by such a working group. And it is really a little too bad for the working group that highly estimated researchers and professors should be confined to a mandate dictated by a large business organisation on the one hand by the stakeholder group. It is clear that this kind of thing is doing a little lifting of the brows, and I am thinking that in committee we shall have to find out which shifts have been in the way of working groups, so that we can get it fully drilled out. After all, this was an issue on which a united opposition went to work under a former minister, and we shall see if we can get the drill out further with the current minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so the next speaker is the rapporteur, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175457	Thank you for that and also thank you from the Danish People's Party for the proposal. In fact, I think it is very positive that the proposal should come up again. This is, of course, slightly different from the joint proposal we had a year ago, but essentially the same in substance. I remember when we discussed it a year ago and we were four bourgeois parties I said at least that the proposal was tabled because we have some pilots around which have some major challenges in relation to floods. We have cities that are being flooded, we have fields, yes, everywhere there are floods. I have to say that I also think it is good that we should get the proposal back and have a discussion about it. It is also because it was my very clear impression when we discussed the fact that something was going to happen. It has also been my impression during the lifetime of the present government that after all something has happened, but in my optics something more must be done. So that way, I think it's fine that we get the minister a little pressed on the stomach with this proposal and that we're actually gonna see that you can change some things. We know that the previous minister, Eva Kjer Hansen, sent out a shepherd letter to the municipalities. We know that she did it because she said: try to apply the existing law; it is not certain that we need to change it if we take full advantage of it. That is how I have seen what happened at the time, and I think that was actually quite excellent. I have also had meetings with organisations that say: well, we can do it, make better cuts in grain, within the existing legislation, because it is actually possible. Then you don't necessarily have to change the law, you might say. What I think the Liberal Alliance also wants with this proposal is better drainage, and I actually think that is important. I and the Danish People's Party are willing to give the Left Government a chance to get this done. We're willing to do that. But I would also like to say that we were not co-sponsors of the proposal, B 145, a year ago just to say: well, then things must continue as they have always done. Then there is, of course, no reason to put the proposal forward, and I am not the type that thinks it is good to stand here and waste your time. It looks very bad to me. So there is praise for the proposers, and of course I have wanted and hoped that something will happen, because that was actually the intention of that proposal. I do not think, regardless of which side of the table one sits by, that one should change one's attitude. In fact, I think it is important that we get some drainage, and I hope that will happen as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175751	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two comments which have been made briefly, and the first is that of Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175756	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you very much for your support for the fact that we can put pressure on the Minister together. I look forward to that situation. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur does not really think enough has happened, but also that the crop-cutting guide may be enough. So I am, in fact, a little uncertain about where the rapporteur is standing here. I understand that the patience of the Danish People's Party has not yet been exhausted, so I would like to ask when it can be expected that the patience of the Danish People's Party will then run out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175847	I shall try to explain this in a very short time. It is my clear view that the shepherd's letter sent out by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen when she was a minister was an invitation to the municipalities to take advantage of the opportunity that actually exists in the current legislation on porridge cutting. I remember at that time asking if it was not possible to make more porridge cuts within the existing legislation, and I was told that that was the case. In my optics it is also important, in relation to the municipalities going out and like trying to make this happen, that it is not just the municipality's expense. It may also be other forms of cooperation, I believe, with pilots and so on, which make it possible to cut more porridge. And then it was my impression that the former minister also said that we should try to see if this had an effect and that otherwise we had to do something. I know that a new working group and another working group will then be set up and so on. etc. I think that may not be so interesting. I think that what is important is that we put that resolution into practice. So just when our patience is exhausted, I dare not say one hundred percent, but I think something should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175956	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426175958	Thank you. I am also pleased with the shepherd's letter, but am of the opinion that it is not enough in this respect. I know that the rapporteur cares a great deal about holiday home owners, and in view of the fact that we have seen floods in summer-house areas, does the rapporteur think that changing the crop cutting guide will solve the problem for the summer-house owners affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180023	I do not necessarily believe that we can only change a crop cutting guide or make sure that the water can run through a stream unhindered and that we then avoid flooding. I do not think so; I think that more things need to be done. Now I come from the municipality of Frederikssund I haven't lived there for a few years, where a huge project in connection with Sillebo Å is made with areas that can be flooded if there is extra water in the stream. But it's not the same thing as the creek just gets to be and not gets porridge cut. So I think it must be a combination, of course, also depending on where the area is located.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180100	The next brief remark is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180105	Thank you very much. I think that the Danish People's Party supports the idea that there should be balanced consideration for our watercourses, both for drainage purposes, but also for the sports fishermen who use the watercourses and for the many Danes who care about nature. And then I am a little curious whether it is with the full support of the Danish People's Party that the government has chosen to let the extreme lobby organisation Sustainable Agriculture write the terms of reference of the working group that sits and has to do the work on the watercourse maintenance instructions in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180142	So, with regard to the word extreme, I simply think it is too much to use that word. Then, every time Enhedslisten makes a proposal, I have to say that now they have been helped by some kind of extreme organization in my view, and I just don't want to do that. So I don't want to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180159	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180202	So it is with the support of the Danish People's Party that the government has chosen to let a lobby organisation from agriculture called Sustainable Agriculture write the mandate to the working group that sits in the Ministry and works with the guidance for watercourse maintenance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180219	If the Danish People's Party has approved the mandate, it is with our blessing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180225	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180230	I would like to follow up a little where Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding left off, because it is in fact the Minister who issues such a mandate, but we have been able to read that very large parts of it have been more or less direct transcripts from a mandate sent in by Sustainable Agriculture. Does the rapporteur think that it is right to give sustainable agriculture such privileged access to writing the government's terms of reference?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180303	Well, I don't have a problem with being inspired. I haven't, and that's why I spend a lot of my time going around visiting companies, organizations, fields, agriculture and whatever it is you're interested in. That is also one of the reasons why we have numerous meetings in here with many different organisations, namely because we are inspired and because I am not so smart that I know everything about everything. I am a politician, I have a position on something, but that does not mean that you do not get inspired. Then there are some people who are more inspired than others, and if in this case it is sustainable agriculture, then peace be with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180341	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180345	Nor am I wiser than that it makes sense for me to be in touch with organisations. I think that applies to all politicians, so I fully acknowledge that. However, I also know the rapporteur well enough to know that the rapporteur will seek different organisations, in other words talk to a range of stakeholders, both on one side and on the other side of the fence or of the watercourse in this case. So I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not think it might be too one-sided to let one organisation write as much of the mandate as it has been put forward in BT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180422	But again, if you have an attitude and you typically do, when you are a politician, there are some people you listen to more than others. That's the way it is. And if you think that what an organization says is in line with the attitude you have, then I cannot see that it is a problem that you use that organisation a lot in making a job description.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180453	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180457	We are some who had hoped that we could have a constructive debate on solutions, and it is therefore a pity that the red side in this Chamber is trying to stigmatise a particular organisation and spread a myth that the government has only based its mandate and so on. on the input of the organization. The truth is that a large number of organisations have come with inspiration to the government, and that is why it is a little too bad. But I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: can the Danish People's Party rule out the possibility that, for example, an organisation such as the Danish Nature Conservation Association has over the years inspired changing governments to what should be written in different terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180536	Either way, I don't think I'm gonna rule anything out from Parliament's platform. I think that would be stupid. And I have no doubt that many organisations, green, blue, red, purple, and what else we can call them, have inspired several members of parliament, several ministries, etc. to write terms of reference and have co-written legislative proposals, motions for resolutions, etc., because that is the way we work. We all do, and that's why it would seem weird to me if you didn't. At the same time, I would also like to say, when the rapporteur of the Left speaks of the need for a constructive debate, that I think it is good to hear the Socialist rapporteur be positive in his speech, because I actually think that the Socialist rapporteur was ■ and, like the Socialist rapporteur, would like to say: when this mandate and task has been carried out, then we are also willing to look at it from the Socialist side and perhaps even help to change legislation if necessary. I think that is a good thing, and that is something to be commended for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180640	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. In order not to upset anyone, I have to say that the chair has accepted in a practical way that the Minister has a bit of food in the side room. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426180659	Thank you for that, President. Realities speak their clear language. In many parts of the country there are major problems along the streams of floods and insidious flooding of the terrain. In recent years, there have been higher amounts of water, including so-called monster showers, while the watering capacity of many watercourses has deteriorated. It has to end badly in the form of flooding and dumping. It costs society and the pilot owners affected enormous losses, and for us in the Left it is vital that we increase our focus on the need for water to be directed more effectively to the sea. Fortunately, this consideration can easily go hand in hand with regard to nature, the environment and good biodiversity. There is no need to contrast it. That is why I very much welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance as an opportunity for a necessary debate on this important issue. In recent years, the focus of river management has shifted somewhat from the need for water drainage to the need to focus more on the environmental aspects of watercourses. This has meant raising the water mirror in many streams. This has resulted in a reduction in porridge cutting, less clean-up and many other measures leading to a reduction in water flow and thus an increase in water level. So this whole terrain thing, it's just a myth. There has actually been an increase in the water mirror in many places. We have measurements on that. In addition to these drainage conditions, it is a fact that the annual rainfall has increased by approx. 100 mm over the last 100 years, and leading hydrologists predict that the amount of water will increase further in the coming years. In the Left, we believe that this must be the past of the very devastating floods of cottage areas, residential areas and agricultural land due to inadequate maintenance of watercourses. Effective drainage of the land is a fundamental condition for the possibility of farming in this country at all, and I know a lot of people who would like to spend the money that agriculture brings home to Denmark and who are happy with the many jobs generated by agriculture. High water levels also affect the drainage of soils, not only along the creeks themselves, but also well away from the watercourses themselves. But it is not only agriculture that needs watering down the watercourses. It is also important for forestry to prevent tree roots from being destroyed or limited in their growth of increased water levels. In many areas along the watercourses, beautiful solitary trees drown, and many gardens and cellars suffer from floods. Figuratively speaking, the terrain along many streams is becoming like a sponge that is constantly soaked. And anyone who knows a sponge that is soaked knows that there isn't much reserve to suck any more water when rain comes. That is why we have the problem. Last week I had the pleasure of having a visit to Central Jutland. Our Minister for the Environment and Food was on a field visit where we among other things. highlighted the importance of directing water to the sea to avoid flooding. The minister met at the banks of Gudenåen, among others. Bjerringbro and Omregns Sportsfisherforening, which presented its very serious proposal for intelligent crop cutting and for improving watercourse maintenance. The Minister signed for the proposal on the spot and listened intensely to the need to lead the water better away and there is a great need. I have met similar constructive approaches in other sports associations in the middle Jutland. Sports fishermen are tired of not being able to get roughly dry-shoeed down to the river's shore to fish. The government is well on its way to meeting the needs. The former Minister for the Environment, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, has sent a relevant shepherd letter to the municipalities to point out the need to implement porridge cutting as the water rises. In addition, the government has launched a study on optimised porridge cutting. But we in the Left are fully aware that this is not enough. The water must be better to the sea, and in many places in the watercourses plugged into the hole, if I may say so, in the form of deposits that have been placed by veins. The watering capacity suffers, so it also requires action. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated today that, having seen the outcome of what has been initiated and when we have had an evaluation of what has been undertaken on crop cutting, he is ready to start a legislative preparatory work, and that is what is needed. We need to continue working on the area. We don't have the full overview yet. I would call for us to try to land this in committee with a report calling on the government to start work on modernising the river basin law when the evaluation is available. In this context, there is a need for a good dialogue with the municipalities, with the landowners, with agriculture, forestry and sports fishermen about other nature-interested people. In the future, municipalities will need a wide range of instruments that can be used when the water rises above the designated cow. The best thing is that the objective of more efficient drainage can easily be achieved without compromising on nature. This requires only a good dialogue and intelligent and modern means of action. I look forward to the fact that in the coming months we are working on a cross-party basis to keep our focus on this extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181249	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181258	It's really hard to decide what to do here. First of all, when we are in one of the world's most cultivated countries and at the same time a very low-lying country we have taken a whole lot of wetlands away from nature and converted them into agricultural land, it is no wonder that there will be dumping when rainfall increases. There's no way you'd be surprised. Then the question is: what do we do about it? Can the rapporteur not confirm that by cutting grass we do not remove the water? What happens is that it disappears more quickly from the farmer's fields and then downstream in the water system, where there are often cottage areas where there are cities where there are other areas that will have to deal with this water, which can cause floods in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181350	I can confirm, and we were also informed during the visit to Bjerringbro the other day, that when you beat porridge, the water level falls dramatically, but what is really important is that you look at this across municipal boundaries. For example: A stream like Gudenåen, Denmark's longest, runs across many municipalities, and it is not enough to look at the municipality of the municipality. There have to be some coherent plans for watercourse maintenance, and that is exactly what Silkeborg, Viborg, Favrskov and Randers municipalities have started to do, and the hat off for it, because of course you have to look at this across municipalities, so you don't just export the problem down to the next municipality downstream. We need to get the water all the way to the sea, and I would like to hear Enhedslisten's offer that if not the water goes into the sea, where will it end up? Are we just going to accept that it magnifies the terrain and causes floods and losses in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181439	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181441	What has been recognised in other countries is that when you take wetlands and turn them into agricultural land, there are floods. If the watercourses are then excavated, as the rapporteur has said, the flood problems are being sent elsewhere, and one of the best solutions is to give back these agricultural land, to set up wetlands. They act as a sponge, which, moreover, the rapporteur also mentioned as something negative, but these are wetlands. They can absorb incredibly large rainfalls and release them slowly to the surroundings afterwards. It's climate adaptation. It is climate adaptation that respects that we have a nature out there, which must also be allowed to be there because if you do what the rapporteur says and dig out the watercourses, where are the spawning grounds? Where, then, are the places where the fish must be, which volunteers have spent thousands of hours trying to re-establish in our watercourses over the past many years because of the hard-handed cutting of porridge? Where will they live if we do what the rapporteur proposes here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181541	Well, again, don't dig ditches. I have not proposed that there should be an army of excavators digging into every stream. I have proposed that the municipalities should have a wide range of instruments that can be used. There is also a need to distinguish between small watercourses where there is one situation and larger watercourses such as watercourses. The Gudenåen, Skjern Å and Nørreåen, which are in a completely different situation. That is why we need a wide range of intelligent instruments, and instead of having such an almost religious or ideological resistance to doing watercourse maintenance at all, I think that Enhedslisten should take and engage constructively in making this wide range of instruments so that we ensure that the water gets more efficiently to the sea, while taking due account of nature, the environment and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181624	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181629	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left for a very fine speech from the rapporteur. I feel, however, that there is a slight difference between what the Minister, who is also from the rapporteur's party, the Left, said earlier, and what the rapporteur of the Left has said. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, vocalist. Will Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen agrees with me that the government's current position on watercourse maintenance is an expression of a kind of precautionary approach to the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181705	I think that the Minister made a very good speech, and I am also glad that the Minister is cautious, because he has to come up with some solutions here based on knowledge. I have outlined here some political objectives which the Left is aiming for, if I may say so, and we need to move forward with more efficient drainage. We simply have to do so with the situation that is out there. So I think there is a very good connection in this, and there is also a good connection in that the Minister would like to see the effect of what we have already started. After this motion for a resolution was tabled for the first time, a number of things have been put in place, and that is where we shall see the impact of it, have it evaluated, and then I hear the Minister say that we shall then proceed with the legislative preparatory work, because we need to modernise this whole system, which is more than 30 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181750	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181753	Thank you. I interpret it as saying that the rapporteur of the Left might join with Mrs Pia Adelsteen and me in pushing the Minister on his stomach at a later stage. I am very much looking forward to it and would just like to sign for the positive reports from the Left that we also want a balance, just as the Liberal Alliance does, between the use and protection of Danish watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181822	I still have two brief comments to make. That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181824	I'm also looking forward to working on this case. I believe that this part of the Parliamentary Assembly will also realise that we need to find new ways where water dissipation goes hand in hand with regard to nature, and we can easily do so. We don't have to push the minister's belly, I think we should pat him on the shoulder and tell him he's on the right path.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181847	Thank you. What I was saying was that there are still two who wanted short remarks, and the first is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181855	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he has an overview of how many floods are caused by the failure of drainage or the cultivation of ridges and similar things in relation to the way in which the soil is treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426181912	No, I do not have that at all, but I am confident that the hydrologists, such as the Minister, will be able to do so. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). However, I do not think we should start saying that it is because of defaulted sinks that there are floods. What is the fact, and we know that, among other things. from the part where I was elected myself, namely in Central Jutland, where there are a large number of streams where the water quota is proven to be much higher than it was just 10 and 15 years ago, and then when the quota is constantly too high, the terrain becomes like a fungus that is unable to absorb anything when there is a little rain, and then we have the problems. Therefore, we need to find some ways to reduce the quota while making some really good solutions with sports fishermen and others, so that we get the water flowing better for the benefit of the fish. The fish like it when the water floats better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182002	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182005	If we cannot agree on the facts as to why some of these problems have arisen, then it is difficult to discuss them. I can just refer to the agricultural figures, where it is estimated that almost half a million hectares of sinks have stopped, collapsed or have relapsed due to sentences so that the water cannot run into the stream. Another problem is that it's from Efficient Agriculture... is tratosis, that is, that the land gets squeezed together. So if we continue to do more of the same, we are making a problem worse and if we do not want to recognise that we are manipulating, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding also mentioned, with the ground, so that we continue to exacerbate the problems. So if we cannot agree on the basic facts on which all sorts of others, including agriculture itself, agree, then it is hard to find common ground in solving some of these problems that we can all see there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182103	I'm not standing here denying the facts, because nobody's gotten away with that. But I say we should be careful not to distort the truth. The truth about many drains is that the drain is gradually below the water surface, and this means that they do not work anymore. That is what the reality is in many places. So what we do not get around is that there will be more rain, that there will be more surface water to go to the sea, while the watering capacity has proven to have been reduced in the watercourses. These are two considerations that both make us have floods, and that is why we need to find new solutions, and I am sure the SF would also like to take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182136	The next short comment is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182141	Thank you. I kind of signed up to the Minister for a balanced approach in the Minister's speech on water dissipation and environmental considerations. I am a little short of the same balance in the approach taken by the rapporteur of the Left, and I have actually become a little in doubt as to what the policy of the Left is in this area. What is the highest priority in this issue of the Watercourse Act? I found a letter in FavrskovPosten on 15 January, it was well enough last year when the rapporteur, who stands on the platform now, writes like this in the reader's letter: "But the primary purpose of watercourses is and remains to lead the water into the sea. The law must be so clear and precise that there can never be any doubt about this crucial priority in connection with the municipal management of the watercourses. But the Minister said just now that there should be an equal balance. So what exactly is the policy of the Left about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182241	I do not understand why the Social Democrats want to create a contradiction. The water has to go to sea at some point, otherwise I would like to hear what the Socialists intend to do with that water. Are you just gonna let it go off the ground? The water must probably go into the sea, that is what is meant by watercourses. However, by means of modern and intelligent methods, we can find a wide range of instruments so that the two considerations go hand in hand. Why do you have to drive up a front about this? Let us now put the report that is coming on the table, then we will find some sensible solutions, because whatever I do know, I know a lot of citizens in the country who might be able to vote in the Socialist Group who are not interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182328	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182330	Fortunately, I know many people who vote Social Democrats. It's nice too. But the point is, in this question, that no one is suggesting that the creeks should be made into lakes with stagnant water. Of course there is movement in streams, so must there be. No, the question in this debate we are discussing is where the priority should lie. The Minister says there must be a balanced priority between the environment and drainage, the rapporteur says in TV/Midt-West and FavrskovPosten and everywhere else that the policy of the Left is that priority no. 1 is drainage. That is just where I doubt what the position of the Left really is and whether the rapporteur is at all sure that the rapporteur's own wish to see drainage as a priority number. In fact, what has been promised to the citizens of Favrskov and the whole of Central and West Jutland is what is going to happen with the minister you have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182420	I am convinced that, when we land this case and look back, we have a situation in which the water is led much more effectively to the sea. That is the priority, while at the same time taking due account of the environment and biodiversity through a wide range of modern instruments. I'm sure we'll make it together, and then we'll see how many people will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182442	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426182455	What is a stream? That is really the key issue when we deal with this motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance. For the Liberal Alliance there is no doubt: the purpose of the watercourses is to serve a drainage purpose. In other words, the purpose of the watercourses is to water down the farmer's fields, and the Liberal Alliance wants this to be clarified in the law on watercourses, just as the law needs to be amended, so that watercourses are more zealously cleaned up, the watercourse floor is excavated and water plants are removed. There are also those who believe that watercourses are something other than drainage channels for agriculture. Some people believe that watercourses are nature. There are people who like to go for a walk and experience streams that are full of life. There are people who like to fish a trout or a salmon in the Danish streams. There are also people who for decades have made a huge effort to recreate life in the Danish streams. There are volunteers who have laid out spawning grounds to restore spawning sites in many places that have been destroyed by extensive watercourse purification and excavation of watercourse floors. There are people who have exposed fish fry to get the fish that have had cramped conditions for years, because streams have been refurbished, refurbished and excavated, back into the streams. There are those who believe that it is important that we as a society work to improve the aquatic environment in our watercourses, because nature is important to all of us, whether you are an angler, a tourist or just an ordinary Dane. There are also those who point out that a living watercourse with aquatic plants is much better at converting nitrogen, which means that by doing about the opposite of what the Liberal Alliance is proposing here, we will have better opportunities to meet the important environmental objectives, which include: I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work has not been accepted by the Commission. The Liberal Alliance is using a main argument in their resolution, which I think I need to address in my rapporteur's speech, and it is about watercourse purification being important to avoid flooding residential areas and holiday homes. Water areas, i.e. meadows and valleys are, and have always been, those places in nature that have managed to withhold water from the surroundings, because wetlands, as I have said before, act as a sponge. When it rains a lot, the wetlands absorb the water, the meadow or the river valley, and then the water is slowly released to the surroundings. What has happened in recent decades? There many of these valleys have been included, the meadows have been converted into farmland, they have been drained and cultivated, so the stream has become a narrow stream that should lead the water away. We have therefore removed large areas of natural water buffers, which is the best word I can find on the landscape, and it is therefore large wetlands which provide the service free of charge to prevent flooding of other agricultural land and cities. And now the problems arise because of the removal of nature's own ability to avoid floods, and when climate change increases the amount of rainfall and many years of farming have caused the land to sit down, as it is called the land surface has sunk so much that the soil's humus content has burned off due to the agricultural drive, and heavy machines have packed the land and drains are clogged, then you get floods. If you solve the problem of watercourse maintenance, you do not remove the water; on the contrary, you send it more quickly downstream. And there are often, especially around our coasts, cottage areas and urban areas, which will then be flooded. So what you want to deal with with with this resolution is not being dealt with; on the contrary, you run the risk of aggravating the problem, and you do so even in a way that costs the municipalities immensely much money. This has also been acknowledged in other countries. For example: In England and Central Europe, in connection with the large floods that have occurred, it has been recognised that the lack of delays in the upstream water systems is a factor in the floods. That is why the only sensible solution in the situation we face, which we all regret, namely that we have climate change, which increases rainfall levels, is simply to restore nature's own lag basins,ådales, meadows to ensure a climate adjustment in which both nature and respect for all sorts of other agricultural land can go hand in hand. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183013	There are two brief comments for the moment. The first one's from sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183021	Thank you very much to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for a fine rapporteur speech. I may also sense that somewhere there is a recognition that some changes are actually needed. The fact that we may not entirely agree on what tool it takes is something else. One of the tools mentioned by Mrs Reumert Gjerding is the restoration of meadows, wetlands and such things. Does the Enhedslisten wish to use the expropriation of agricultural land for those purposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183056	In other words, there is already the purchase of agricultural land and the restoration of nature. This is not a new phenomenon in Denmark. So that is what we want to make more use of. Land distribution takes place, and a lot of these low-lying farmland is not very valuable because the yield is not very high. It is not a very good land to grow crops, so there will probably be farmers who are interested in entering into some land distribution agreements, thus getting them onto other land and can give these areas back to nature also for the sake of those who live downstream. And we agree: there is a problem. Enhedslisten's analysis of the problem and the solutions is just somewhat different from Liberal Alliance's.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183145	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183148	That's how I often think it is with Liberal Alliance and Enhedslisten's analyses of things. Finally, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to respond to the fact that KL actually believes that a change in legislation should be introduced so that new solutions can be better implemented in the area of watercourse maintenance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183212	I will not deny that at all. Well, we think that you have to cut less than you do today. And, as I mentioned in an earlier question to the Minister for the Environment, there is, among other things, one of them. also studies showing that by constantly removing water plants from the streams, some very fast growing plants benefit, whereas if you do not crop anymore, you can achieve some kind of balance. It is not, of course, the case that streams are completely stalling and that there is no water flowing through them at all. So I think that if we look towards a much smaller extent of crop cutting, we will also get streams in a much better balance compared to the composition of water plants that are. Then we can have much more natural streams that can water down and where there is also a very, very high level of biodiversity, not least fish, which very many people enjoy and benefit greatly from in their outdoor lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183311	The next brief remark is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183316	Thank you. Nature is important to all of us, the rapporteur said, and I fully agree with that. That is very wisely said, and I think everyone in the Folketing can sign it. I also agree with the rapporteur when he says that the watercourses also have a recreational value, that is to say, that you can go down by the watercourses and enjoy nature and the roast of water, if otherwise it runs strong enough to roast. But the problem is that it knows. e.g. The river of Guden is hopeless to descend along the stream along large stretches of the river. Try to ask down at Svostrup Kro, where the inn garden is flooded, or at Kongensbro Kro, and this is how you can continue down there where there are large floods. So at many streams you can't come down and enjoy nature. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur now says that recreational importance is important, what I agree with, is it not also a good idea that one can walk fairly dry-shoeed quite close to the watercourses? Or should it just be swamp everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183409	No, I don't want it all to be swamp. But there is, you might say, a basic characteristic of the nature type called wet meadows, or the nature type called an edal, that it is not a drained piece of land and then a small rippling stream. It's a wetland, and when there's rainfall, it's flooded. This is what a wetland can do, and then the water is slowly released to the surroundings again. So I do not see it as an end in itself that any stream in Denmark should be able to go dry-shoeing and look into it. This is simply fundamentally contrary to the nature we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183451	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183453	I guess I didn't say it was supposed to be like that with all the watercourses either. And I recognise that wetlands are one of the means we can use if the pilots get full compensation for it and you don't just take the land away from them. But when the rapporteur mentions the fact that the meadows are a sponge that can suck, does the rapporteur not recognise that the sponge is wet because the water level is so high every day in very many streams that there is no capacity left in that sponge to suck anything? So the function that the meadows did have in the old days is no more, for now the water is constantly so high that there is no fungus effect in many of our meadows.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183530	Thank you for the question. One can at least say that once you have drained as much soil as you have in so many areas that were once wetlands, you have moved the water in inappropriate ways, and then you have floods of areas where you do not want to have floods. So the approach to this has to be to look at where we can sensibly build wetlands that can also keep the downstream areas more dry. It is clear that it is a social priority in which we say: where should we restore the natural hydrology of water so that we can take into account other interests? We are in complete agreement with that in the Enhedslisten. We just think that there is too much land under ploughs, so you have to engage in a dialogue with agriculture on how to ensure climate protection in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183626	Thank you. The watercourses are the blood vessels of nature and the small capillaries and the larger veins that bind it together and create the small nature, omnipresent in our landscape. In the alternative, we see watercourses as nature, and we really think that the balance that exists in the legislation today is basically fine, that we therefore have the two considerations to take into account. And we see that the proposal here from the Liberal Alliance will shift that balance towards seeing watercourses as drainage and to a lesser extent as natural areas, and that is why we cannot support the proposal. We will see it as a threat to the protection of nature, for example, if we do so. removes the watercourses from section 3 of the Nature Conservation Act, and we really think that the municipalities mainly, in many places, handle this balance very well. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183748	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183754	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur says that the alternative mainly regards watercourses as nature. Does the rapporteur therefore not recognise that watercourses also have a water-reducing characteristic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183815	I think I pointed out that there is precisely that balance with the two extremes of water dissipation and nature and that, in fact, in many places in the municipalities today, that balance can be dealt with fairly well. So, of course, I recognise that they also have a distraction as a function, but we think that greater emphasis should be placed on the natural part of the function of the watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183845	Do I then hear the rapporteur for the alternative say that watercourse maintenance must cease altogether in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183855	I think that makes sense in many places, but I also think that the balance has been high in many places. And with the proposal we are seeing here today from the Liberal Alliance, I fear that the balance will be pushed far too much towards the idea that streams alone will be diverting channels.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183917	We thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, rapporteur of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426183925	Thank you. A few months ago there were quite large floods in Holstebro, because Storåen went over its banks, and just over a year ago there were very large floods around Roskilde and other Zealandic cities facing the sea. At the same time there were very large floods in all the towns that lie down to Limfjorden, and all of this is due to the fact that there is more water. When you hear the debate today, it is as if the parties that support the fact that the only thing a river must do is to get the water out of it, completely ignore the obvious question, namely where it is that the water is going. I can easily understand the farmer who says: let us now run some machines through the stream that goes right down to my field, because then the water gets away. The challenge is that the water will come somewhere else. For then it may come to another farmer's fields, into a summer hush area, into Holstebro city or somewhere else, where it then floods something else. And that's why you need to make a plan here in the Folketing to handle all this extra water for the benefit of our society and not just for some individual groups who think it would be good that our law on water should focus solely on the fact that a stream should get water out of their field. So I simply think it is too simple to see it in the way that the Liberal Alliance does. That, among other things. We believe it is necessary to have a discussion about the large amount of our land used for the agricultural industry today, which is about two thirds. One could, for example: I would like to ask the Commission whether it is possible to take out some land, and it could be the land that is actually worst to grow, which is least profitable, which is least economically advantageous to grow and then leave some of the water there, and on the lands that were then left, farmers could be allowed to fertilize something more and produce something more. Then this challenge could be met, and then it is that nature considerations, environmental considerations, climate considerations, water considerations, social considerations and considerations for growth in the agricultural industry go hand in hand, and that was indeed what the Nature and Agriculture Commission recommended. What we are now seeing with the agricultural package and with this resolution is that you only focus on one thing that will just end up being short-sighted. That is why we would like to see a social plan being drawn up on how to handle this water instead of making a law that would destroy nature by driving machines through the streams, and by the way, you just move the water from one to the other. So we say no to this resolution and hope that we can get into some discussions on how to create a social plan for these masses of water.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184229	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184233	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I sense that there is a slight difference between what the Liberal Alliance and the Radicals consider to be a balance, but I would like to acknowledge the considerations of a comprehensive plan, and to that extent I agree with them. But I do not agree that the proposal here is an expression of the intention to drive machinery through the Danish watercourses. However, the rapporteur also highlights the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which is perhaps in fact the one that has brought the whole debate on the amendment of the legislation on watercourses into play, because it has just been highlighted in the report by the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and KL has the same considerations in relation to the amendments that are required here. Can the rapporteur perhaps make some comments on this and say whether it is precisely the Nature and Agriculture Commission and the KL that want legislative changes in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184340	They do. But they have no desire to write the nature considerations completely out of the law, as far as I remember at least the inputs that have come from the two places.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184353	No, and that is the difference between the balance sheet and the balance sheet because, as the motion for a resolution actually says, a balance has been drawn up for several reasons in this respect. However, I do hope that we may be able to continue the dialogue at a later stage, possibly in committee, and that we may also have a slightly more general and comprehensive plan for the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184419	That's where we agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184432	Then I give the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426184444	Thank you. The proposal from the Liberal Alliance makes me immediately think of this traffic radio with Monrad & Rislund, if you can remember it, and the advice to drive as fast as possible in traffic, so you spend the shortest possible time on the roads because that is where the accidents are happening. Several of my fellow Members have referred in particular to the part of the proposal which deals with coastal areas and cottage areas and which actually expresses a concern, I think we all share, for these floods, which we are seeing more and more. But I just want to say that it is exactly the opposite that will happen. The proposal will cause problems both with larger amounts of water downstream, for example. in coastal towns built at river end, and with coastal climate adaptation on the sea or fjord side, which does not need to be further challenged from the land side with increased amounts of water from agriculture. After all, the proposal runs very well with the Liberal Alliance and the Left's competition in the blue block to appear most agriculturally friendly, but I have to say, as some of my colleagues have also said, this is like peeing in your pants to keep warm, if you have to say so from the platform, because that is a real, real short-term solution, including for agriculture. What several speakers have said is precisely the fact that once we have drained the meadows of the creeks, they begin to sink down to the water mirror, the humus disappears, is burned off like carbon dioxide, and when you see a crop carver, the plants respond to growing faster. And then we get an escalation of the problem. And when, at the same time, we have so much land in Denmark that turns into agricultural land and is drained, we need these mushrooms, as the rapporteur of the Left said. We lack the areas here that can absorb the water that has always been there, but which we know will be much more of in the future. We need these wetlands to absorb the water that will keep coming. We do not need water to run faster. On the contrary, we need to slow it down a little. And we need some area in this country that can act like a sponge and pick up the rainwater that will come. As Mr Radicale's rapporteur also said, the water that will then be derived more quickly from the farmer's fields will end up in summer-house areas and coastal communities etc., and they will then be the ones who will have the problems of flooding. SF has proposed that natural watercourses and streams should be subject to climate adjustment in addition to nature and, in part, water management. This means that the banks of the creeks must be able to store seasonal water supplies, as was the case when there was nature or meadow instead of crops. But we also need land to be taken out and made for what was the natural purpose, namely to store water, rainfall, so that it can slowly seep again. In addition, restoring the ridge and natural water dynamics in the watercourses has a number of advantages: more natural and biodiversity, less nitrogen and phosphorus, fewer pesticides in watercourses and fewer climate gases. I always find it exciting to discuss the political debate where we disagree and where you can say that you think agriculture should be taken care of in this way, or say that you think nature needs a helping hand, but this proposal does no good, because the problems will get bigger and bigger. We can see that the ground sits down, it's called trattosis, when heavy machines push it down. Humussen disappears and we will see that the problems just get bigger because we continue to postpone solving them. If we do not get much larger land that can function as they used to be, namely wetlands, meadows and so on, then the problem will only get worse. Even if you only have the interests of agriculture in mind, and it is quite legitimate to have one wish, one view, then I do not see that this proposal should help anything either. Because the problems will only get bigger. If the President will allow me, I will spend the last five seconds saying that these are figures from agriculture itself... that 400 000 hectares of floods come from poorly maintained or incompetent sinks. The second most important reason is traktosis, i.e. that the soil is compressed by heavy machines, and a few of the floods come from porridge cutting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185011	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185017	Thank you. And thank you for an actually humorous rapporteur speech. I am pleased that the rapporteur could also bring Monrad & Rislund into play. It's lovely where it's close to 19 o'clock in the Assembly Hall. I think that the rapporteur may be focusing a little too much on the points where the SF and the Liberal Alliance disagree. I would really like to focus on the points where we agree. It has, of course, been shown a short time ago that there is in fact something we agree on: forestry in Denmark and such things. I think I might have heard a little pep, I would say, from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, in relation to the fact that changes in the climate and changes in precipitation in the future should also somehow result in a change in legislation. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185117	That's correct. But I do not think it is correctly understood that the rapporteur will be pleased with what I am trying to say. We believe that the creeks should have climate adjustment as a purpose, but I do not think that this is something the rapporteur would appreciate. Because that also means that the creeks must naturally be able to collect some of the water we want. We are not saying that that is enough, because we must also have re-established many more wetlands, meadows and so on. etc. However, the rapporteur asks if there is anything we agree on. Then I would just like to take up some of the main points of the proposal. One is: a clarification of the law on watercourses, so that it is clear that watercourses serve drainage purposes..... I read that a little, just as the other rapporteurs have read it, that is to say that it is the primary purpose. And it's not for us. Another main point is: • A change of legislation so that in specific cases it is the municipality that has to prove without reasonable doubt that the maintenance provisions are necessary to derogate from the environmental requirements..... We believe that the burden of proof should be on the opposite side. And there I would like to point out that there are three cases in which a complainant is entitled to the conclusion that it is the municipality that has breached the watercourses. That's not a lot of stuff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185227	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185229	Thank you. So do I also understand that the rapporteur actually recognises what KL is out to say about the fact that it actually requires a change of law to be able to make the necessary adjustments to watercourse maintenance in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185249	Yeah. Well, it's not exactly the same thing, but we want a change of law. We want a change of law, so natural streams and streams must also have climate adaptation as their purpose. But I do not think that is exactly what the rapporteur is looking for in his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185311	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185327	As everyone knows, we are very concerned about our aquatic environment in Denmark. The clean-up of the aquatic environment in Denmark started under a conservative government in the 1980s, and this is a matter that we are still very concerned about. It was also a matter of great concern to us when we had debates on the agricultural package up to Christmas, where we probably had the biggest fight, we could say whether the watercourses and the level of environmental protection that should be of them. Then there has been an afterthought, which has also to some extent been about the aquatic environment. We still feel the same way about this proposal that we will not be helping to reduce the environmental protection of watercourses. This seems to be the intention of this motion for a resolution, which is why we cannot support it. There may well be reason for a revision of the legislation; it may well be that some of the legislation can be improved. However, it should not just be based on a desire for more emphasis to be placed on watering capacity and thus perhaps less on the natural value of the watercourses. For us, watercourses are nature. Not all watercourses, but many of them are nature-- not these dug-up canals that can be around, and which alone aim to lead water away from fields and have very, very great natural value. That is why we do not want them to have less environmental protection than they do today, and that is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185512	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185519	Thank you. I appreciate, of course, that the Conservatives also care about the natural value and about the watercourses. If we take it out of the equation for a moment and look at whether this motion for a resolution will actually meet what the rapporteur says is the intention, which among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. gets the flow of water faster because you cut the porridge more?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185605	I think I would like to say, like the Minister, that this is probably something that needs to be looked at a little more closely, so it is reasonable enough that the Minister will also have more secure knowledge in this area. It will probably be in some places, but many of the objections that have been raised in this debate to that view seem to me to be correct. You have to be careful not just to push the problem down the stream, and there may be many other reasons why there are flooding around. So I'm not gonna go overboard about it. I believe that in some places this may be the case and that elsewhere there may be other causes of flooding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185640	Then I would like to ask the rapporteur another question. The fact that such a large proportion, and that is over 60%, of the Danish area is under plough and that it has been very much land that had to be drained in order to become agricultural land, and that we have thereby lost some of the natural wetlands that have been in Denmark before so much of it came under plough, and that we now have so little left of what acts as a sponge, as the Left rapporteur called it, to absorb the rainfall that has always been and will only come more of in the future, will it help to exacerbate the problem when we get more rain and do not have these wetlands that function as a sponge?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185722	Yes, I consider that to be certain, of course it will. We have a different nature in Denmark than we would have had if we did not have agriculture. Now there has to be room for agriculture. It is an extremely important profession with a very, very important importance for Danish culture and economy etc., so there must be room for it. But there is no doubt that these changes in the landscape of course mean that there will be some types of soil that can absorb the water to a lesser extent and that this can of course cause some major problems. So we have to take that into account, and I think it is good to have it revised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185758	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185801	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov's party, the Conservative People's Party, was absolutely in favour of a similar proposal in the last parliamentary assembly. What has changed since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185817	It has changed that we have a new parliamentary group and we do not think this is the right proposal. It can then be said that we have also heard from the Minister that the government itself will start looking at some measures which might improve the flow of water. We feel very well covered in that. We do not think there is a need for this resolution, which is actually rather unconcrete, but in our opinion seems to place too much emphasis on watering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185854	The questioner's giving up. The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185900	I will also be very brief. I stumbled a little over the rapporteur's speech and thought that the resolution that Conservatives were, after all, part of a year ago does not seem right at all. So, at that time, the Conservative rapporteur, Daniel Rugholm, said: 'The Water Running Act must be amended to make it clear that watercourses serve drainage purposes and therefore must be maintained as necessary in order to avoid these incidents and the depletion of both residential areas and agricultural land. So you don't care about that now from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185935	I do not agree with that statement. I have to say that there are also other considerations than the mere consideration of watering capacity in our watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426185948	I think we actually mentioned this in the motion for a resolution. This just seems to me to be a very large rejection of the joint motion for a resolution which, after all, we were discussing last year, and this is largely reminiscent of what was proposed by the blue bloc. We can say that everything else is equal, at least in most parties, the same attitude is maintained over elections too, but I understand that Conservatives do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190021	I find that very funny to hear from the Danish People's Party. I think we could find some examples of a change of attitude. I do not know whether this is a large or a small rejection of the resolution, but it is certainly a rejection of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190034	Thank you. And the next question is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190038	Thank you. Now I just had the opportunity to listen to the iPhone at the start of the rapporteur's speech, where the rapporteur also addressed the agricultural package and the issue of watercourses in this regard. I would just like to ask: there are 50 million in the agricultural package. kr. to return to 10 000 km of watercourses, and with the warm feelings I can hear from the rapporteur for those of our watercourses, which are nature and so I agree with the rapporteur in the warm feelings for them, can the rapporteur, as a conciliation party, guarantee that none of the natural watercourses will be taken out of these river basin plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190118	Yes, we can guarantee that, because it says in the agricultural package that no watercourses of environmental value should be taken out. And that was just a conservative demand, because we had this very big discussion about what to do with our watercourses. After all, it was a conservative requirement that watercourses with environmental value should not be taken out of water plans. So, yes, I think I can guarantee that, at least if the agreement is respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190146	Maybe I'm thinking as much about how to guarantee it. Well, environmental value can really be rubber band in meter size, because it's kind of an indefinable size. Where does the Conservative People's Party limit what can be bought when we talk about our watercourses? In this case, it is 10,000 km of watercourses to be visited again, and 50 million will be needed. kr. On it. It seems like an effort that is being set in motion in the conciliation circle for a purpose, and it is hardly just to say that they should remain as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190222	No, but it is because there has been a very great desire from agriculture. Many farmers have come to us with complaints; they believe that there are streams that are miscategorized. Then the presentation was, when we had the negotiations, what Mr. Simon Kollerup knows, because he sat with him all the way and knows the course completely and doesn't really have to ask, but for those who belong, I would mention that we should take some watercourses out of the water plans. We then ended up saying that we should not, but in return we should look at whether it is true that there are some streams that are misclassified. And if there are any of these purely dug ditches, completely straight, which are artificial, and which are made only for the purpose of watering down fields that are covered by some environmental protection, even if they have no environmental value, then it is fair enough for us to have them in the water plans. We'll see if that's right. I do not think the problem is quite as big as it has been put forward, but we shall now see. I agree that it is a lot of money to spend on it, but it is better than taking watercourses directly out of the water plans without having an assessment of their environmental value.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190332	There are no more authors, so we thank the rapporteur. I shall now pass on the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190347	I must say that I am a happy environmental rapporteur today. I would like to thank you for a very fine debate on this motion for a resolution. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement that a change of law may be envisaged at a later stage. And thank you, in particular, to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, for wanting to help me press the Minister's stomach. And thank you, too, sir. Simon Kollerup and, moreover, to several other rapporteurs for having actually indicated the desire for a change of law, but with the right balance. The Nature and Agriculture Commission has been mentioned several times, and perhaps I would also like to thank them here from the platform, because they are, in fact, the ones who have started the whole discussion on the revision of the Watercourse Act. In the Liberal Alliance, we want to work continuously and continuously to develop our policy on nature and the environment as well. However, we would also like to stand firm on our priorities and what we promise before and during election campaigns, including various resolutions on untouched forests or river legislation. That is why it is quite natural for us to be able to table a motion for a resolution which we co-sponsored in the last session together with the other parties in the blue bloc. It is a motion for a resolution which, if adopted today or by subsequent vote, will clarify the whole basis for future watercourse maintenance. We simply have to note, and there are several rapporteurs who agree with me on this, that the watercourses' ability to steer rain away from the field and the city is no longer sufficient. Then why is that? There are probably many reasons for this: climate change, increasing rainfall, sea mirror increases, isostasy, soil compaction and much more. None of the reasons may bear the full blame, but all probably still bear some of the blame. However, if we want to avoid the flooding of cellars and sparse urban areas and farmland in the future, we need to do something different from what we are doing today. In fact, the Liberal Alliance will be the pioneering party for this, so that we can deal with the challenges in and around our streams, and so that we can have them handled as best we can and take care of all interests in the best possible way. It must, of course, be possible to have a common agenda to protect people and the values of floods and agricultural land from dumping while taking account of nature and the environment. As a liberal parliamentary politician and environmental rapporteur, when I look at our watercourses, it is not like Lord Nelson by looking at the blind eye. No, I am trying to do it with a modern binoculars, where the image from the two lenses merges on the retina into a whole, and where it is not necessarily a contradiction between water dissipation and natural and environmental protection. However, according to actors in the area, including KL, which I have mentioned several times during today's debate, administrative practices, applicable legislation, rules and decisions in the Boards of Appeal and in courts today restrict the possibility of the necessary adjustments to river maintenance. It is not the reality that has to adapt to the system, but the system that has to adapt to reality. That's why we must have changed the law. The motion for a resolution calls on the Minister to carry out a review of the legislation, and it is to be expected that it will require thorough preparatory work and thorough analysis, and this will take time. It is therefore also important that the legislative preparatory work be undertaken as soon as possible. We cannot here at Christiansborg solve all the challenges of the country by simply talking about it far into the evening and sometimes even far out into the night. The product here must not be the debate alone. Changes also need to be made. I am, of course, pleased, and I have also said this in the past, that a shepherd's letter has been sent from the Ministry to the municipalities, and I am pleased with the audit work on the crop cutting guide. But I do not think that is enough and there are great values at stake. KL and others point out that a change of law is necessary to move forward from where we are now. I think that we in the Folketing should comply with this and I think that we should start the necessary process as soon as possible. Then I promise that I will applaud the Minister on his shoulder once we have really got to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190910	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190917	Poor minister, who must be both patted on his stomach and pressed on his shoulder and whatever else it was. What I want to ask the rapporteur is, after all, the balance we have had so much about here. And in reality, I would just like to start trivially by asking: how big a failure does the rapporteur think the government is exposing Danish agriculture to by not just voting in favour of the rapporteur's motion for a resolution? The minister said not to read the end of the book first, but first to go through all the chapters. So, how big a failure is it for Danish agriculture that the government, together with LA, is not pressing the green button and voting in favour of this proposal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426190959	I don't know if I'm going to consider it a failure. But, as I have already done, I will sign for the measures that have been taken. I think it is just an expression of a different approach and a different degree of patience among a government-supporting party and then a party like the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191028	I am just a little confused because I think that the rapporteur, in relation to all the blue colleagues, made something of emphasising how disappointed he was that we did not start now and that the rapporteur himself wanted to read the end of the book before all the chapters were read so that we could get over the steppes. But you have to understand that's not such a big problem anyway. I would like to ask the rapporteur something that might be a little more about the content. How will the rapporteur ensure that there is the right balance between nature and environmental considerations in relation to drainage? Because I think that with regard to the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here, in which I think there is the word 'environment' in the last line, as was pointed out to me from the platform, those considerations are not something that permeates the proposal. So I'm interested in how the Liberal Alliance will find that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191116	We are particularly interested in finding a balance through the legislative preparatory work which needs to be launched as soon as possible, and this is really an impatience. Now Mr. Simon Kollerup has failed just now, and that is for me to see a very big word which perhaps belongs better in social policy contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191139	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191144	Thank you. The rapporteur said that we need to do something quite different, and I actually agree with that. But I simply do not believe that it is the intention of the Liberal Alliance to have a policy that means that a great many homeowners, a great many urban communities and coastal communities will be flooded even more than we have seen so far. And this will mean, because the water has to be taken somewhere, so even if you can divert it more quickly from the farmers' fields, it just moves somewhere else. I simply do not believe that this is the policy of the Liberal Alliance. That is why I would just like the Liberal Alliance to consider whether what we could do instead of doing for the farmers themselves, because they will continue to see their fields flooded because of all the things we have talked about, that is to say, the lowering, the pressure and so on. Otherwise, we will continue to see floods.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191256	Thank you. As regards intentions, as a relatively newly elected parliamentary politician for the Liberal Alliance, I have seen many people believe that they know the intentions of the Liberal Alliance in terms of nature and the environment, and that there are also many prejudices when you are a liberal politician and an environmental rapporteur. We may be able to discuss this at a later stage. However, it is true that a large number of areas have already been allocated to wetlands in particular, and this is a development which will be escalated in the years to come through decisions already taken in parliament. So, in fact, I believe that action is already under way to respond to these fungi effects, which have been mentioned several times in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191347	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191407	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191425	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the alternative for tabling the motion for a resolution. Overall, the government agrees with the aim of the proposal, but we do not agree with the tools proposed by the alternative. The government is happy to help with guidance for public purchasers who want to buy in sustainably, but it must be up to the individual municipalities, regions and government authorities to decide how they will specifically organise their purchases. At the same time, we note that the fisheries, aquaculture and retail sector are already engaged in a wide range of initiatives that promote the demand and production of sustainable fish and shellfish. The Ministry of the Environment and Food is also preparing a guide that will make it easier for public authorities to buy local and sustainable seafood. Following the timetable, the guidance will be ready as early as July this year. The government will do its part to disseminate information on counselling; it can, among other things, do so. happen via the website, the responsible buyer in Partnership for Public Green Purchases and in the newsletter from the Sustainable Purchasing Forum. When the government does not see a need to make demands, this is also due to the fact that the market itself is well on the way. The vast majority of fishing for human consumption and industrial fishing in Denmark are therefore already either sustainability certified or on the way to becoming so. For example: was more than 60%. of the fish for human consumption landed in Denmark in 2015, MSC certified. The association Denmark's Fisheries Association expects that up to 80%. of the Danish fishing will be MSC-certified within a few years. And Danish Aquaculture, which is the association of Danish fish farmers, has among other things. The aim is that the entire Danish conventional production of freshwater trout should be certified by ASC. The retail trade is also well in the process of ensuring that all fish and shellfish sold to consumers are sustainable. Danish Supermarket has set the goal that the full range of products with seafood must be sustainable. And earlier this month Lidl announced that all their wild caught fish should be MSC-certified in 2016, while all their farmed fish should be ASC-certified or organic in 2018. Thus, even without public procurement requirements for sustainable fish and shellfish, Danish fishing is in full swing with a restructuring that helps to avoid over-fishing and extinction of fish species. I have no doubt that the initiatives already launched in the fisheries, aquaculture and retail sectors, as well as the forthcoming guidance to public purchasers, will provide a greater supply of sustainable fish and shellfish to consumers and a more sustainable Danish fishing industry. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191706	Thank you. No request has been made for short remarks, so we thank the Minister and go further in the series of rapporteurs. The next speaker is Mr. Simon Kollerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426191725	The motion for a resolution has been tabled here by the Alternative and aims to promote the sustainability of public kitchens by ensuring that the fish and shellfish purchased by the public sector have been fished sustainably. These could, for example, be the so-called MSC certified fish. Specifically, the alternative will require sustainable and nature-friendly fishing in public and government procurement. At the same time, the proposal states that sustainable caught fish must be required in order for canteens to earn the Food Authority's Ø label, and three different brands can be obtained depending on how much ecology is served in the canteen. The Socialists are generally in favour of promoting sustainability in public kitchens. We also see it in the private retail trade, which increases supply and increases the requirements for fishing in relation to sustainability labels. We made a great effort to spread ecology in public kitchens, which we see as a major step in the right direction in terms of spreading ecology to the whole country, so that the ecology will be for the many. At the same time, the Socialists take the state of fish stocks seriously and we want marine resources to be managed sustainably. Against this background, we would like to work to ensure that public procurement reflects that priority and ensures that fish are purchased sustainably. It is the impression of the Social Democrats that it will benefit Danish fishermen, as two thirds of the Danish fishing for human consumption is MSC-certified. This will stimulate the demand for Danish fish rather than the public procurement of pangasius or tiger shrimps from Asia, which cannot be categorized as sustainable. From this point of view, this is an interesting proposal in which we can both promote the sustainability of public kitchens, while at the same time creating jobs in fisheries in those parts of Denmark that have traditionally had many jobs in particular fisheries. Having said that, the Socialists also have a number of concerns about the proposal, which must be clarified before we can possibly support it. Firstly, it is important for us to see how this will affect the economy and expenditure of the municipalities and the state. The municipalities are very tense, and MSC certified fish are more expensive. Here it is important that we find a good balance that does not push the municipalities further, and therefore there is also a need in the committee work to get more knowledge of how it will affect the economy of the public sector whether funding needs to be found in order to implement the proposal. Secondly, we believe that it should be made quite clear what can be categorized as sustainable caught fish. For example, should the state only buy organically farmed fish, or should the state not buy farmed fish at all? Are MSC and ASC sufficiently good marks, or are there also built-in requirements for new marks, possibly with catch gear requirements? Thirdly, we believe that the comments on the state of fish stocks are a little too indefensible. The comments show that 70 per cent. of the EU's fish stocks are over-exploited and that the figure is 90%. Worldwide. There is a need to draw a more nuanced picture, as many stocks, at least according to the European Commission, are improving and more and more stocks are being fished according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield, i.e. the MSY principle. Fourthly, we also believe that the profession must be consulted in order to make the most appropriate and long-lasting arrangements. But there is also a need to clarify how the proposal will affect the industry. Against this background, we in the Social Democrats are looking forward to further work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192135	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pia Adelsteen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192143	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we are opposed to the proposal, and when I say it so precisely, it is because in our optics it seems that the alternative will at least dictate what kind of fish municipalities etc. I'm gonna buy. Now we like that the municipalities have some form of autonomy, and this is so a small part of it, one might say. It is certainly the case in our optics that they must decide for themselves how to make their purchases. That's one thing. The other thing is the fish and shellfish thing. During the six years I sat in the European Committee, it was at least one of the few places I gave a mandate to a minister. It was from this point of view that fish do not know borders, and it made very good sense that it was biologists in the European Union who, like us, indicated what we thought we could fish in the different countries from a biological point of view and also from the point of view that it should of course be sustainable, so that there are fish for our children and grandchildren as well. This has been one of the few things we in the Committee on European Affairs supported by the Danish People's Party. Secondly, the alternative, as I have seen here, is that the municipalities and the public authorities can only buy fish that have these two brands, namely the MSC brand and the ASC mark, and then fish from organic and gentle fishing. But it is also quite clear that there is fishing, for example. the coastal fishing, in which fishermen are at least a great deal concerned about whether they want to buy their fish at all. The problem is, I think, when you make such demands with regard to the public, that it is often the case that, in order to be safe, people take what the marks are on. But when my little fish truck comes to Mariager, there are not many marks on any of those fish, because they are not wrapped, I will hurry to say. They're pretty freshly caught. And I don't really know if a public institution can buy those fish. I don't know how they're fished or anything, but they're fresh at least, and they're good. Somewhere I think we should support this as long as we stay within the quotas that exist now that the fishermen are out at sea. It is my impression that they are doing so. In fact, we have a great deal of monitoring of fishermen in Danish waters. Then I think it's quite fine that we can also buy from the fishing car or down by the port for that matter. In the Danish People's Party we do not want to support this proposal, which we believe is a form of dictation of how to buy in a certain way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192439	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192445	Thank you. I am, of course, a little too sorry to hear that the Danish People's Party will not be on this proposal. What I really think is reasonable is that when we talk about public money, which we have all contributed to through our tax system, the money goes to what is sustainable, what creates a profession that acts in a way that is sustainable in relation to the standard. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is reasonable for us to pay our tax dollars through the tax system to public institutions, which are going to provide a meal, to do so on the most sustainable basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192532	Actually, I don't really know if I agree, I have to admit that. There are kindergartens who shop and cook together, and there are kindergartens where the parents themselves provide the children with lunches. It's been decided out there locally, and I think that's really good. When you are a public institution and you have to buy, there are many criteria to follow: we make large contracts, etc. etc. You can set up a lot of criteria, but it's not necessarily all of them that I think are equally good. At any rate, I think that what is important is that you do not just say unilaterally: well, it is only if you do this that things are good. I am clearly of the opinion that the fact that biologists from the European Union sit and distribute fishing quotas to the different countries from a biological point of view, although also through negotiations, means that those fish, wherever we buy them or how they are labelled, have been allocated on the basis of a sustainability principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192638	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192641	That assessment of stocks is, of course, carried out on a scientific basis, but it takes, for example. not really considering whether it is scraping methods. That is precisely what can be built into the demand for gentle fishing by saying that it should not be scraping methods. In this way, we can help the pressured nature of the marine environment to get better through our public treasures. Wouldn't that be a good solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192709	Yes, it could well be, but I think I mentioned that in my speech as well. And then I just think we have some other problems, because if we take the coastal fishing, how can I see that it is just that? I know they haven't put on their fish a special mark or something, so I can see this is uh, so good. Or when the fishman comes and stands in the local Bruges, because you may not just live near the coast. Then the fresh fish lie there, and I can't see how they've been fished, but I think it's okay to buy them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192739	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192747	I think it is important that correct things are said about the fishing industry in this Chamber. I will not be able to rule out the existence of black fish in Mariager, but I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not true that commercial fishermen have to register what catches they are landing and that, in this way, there is a very clear possibility, if you sell your fish, of being able to know by registration what kind of fishing vessel they have caught and in what quantities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192824	Yes, that is quite right, but I do not see how, as a consumer or as a public buyer for that matter or kindergarten manager who also manages public money, I should be able to see it when I'm standing down at the fishing car. That's really just my point. Then I will buy those fish because I assume that they have been fished on a sustainable basis and that they have been fished correctly and are not black by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192846	But the intermediary who buys the fish has the possibility of knowing where that fish comes from and what kind of area it is trapped in. So I think that traceability is, of course, very important for the consumer if it is the case that the consumer wants fish from special areas or if it is the case that consumers want fish caught with special fishing gear. But this case also reveals that we really do not have a mark. We lack a label for the gentle, sustainable inshore fishing, so that the consumer, just by looking at a label, can come up with how that fish is caught. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that an additional mark might be an advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192925	I find that a little difficult to assess because brands can be many things. And again, I think I'm just going to refer to this fishing car, which I hope most of us have visited, where, by the way, there are fresh fish, but where most fish do not have a brand. I would really like to have such a stamp removed from my fresh fish, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426192952	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193005	Thank you for that, President. B 84 is a resolution from the Alternative which aims to promote the purchase of sustainable fish and shellfish in the public sector. It is a motion for a resolution in which it can be seen from the text that you want to deprive municipalities, regions and state institutions of the opportunity to buy fish themselves as you wish. The motion for a resolution therefore unfortunately also seeks to deprive the same institutions of the option of choosing a specific local port, which is wanted to be used. You take away the opportunity to choose a particular local small fisherman, which is wanted to be used, and then you play a little bit of a tail on what sustainability is in relation to fishing. I would like us to be able to start by agreeing that the quotas on the fish that we allow to be caught in Denmark are sustainable quotas and thus sustainable fishing, so all Danish fishing is sustainable fishing, otherwise we will not give permission from the Folketing to catch these fish. Secondly, we need to lean on the labelling schemes of some interested organisations, for example. IMO labelling is mentioned, a label in which many small local fishermen, whom I believe would certainly call themselves sustainable fishermen, unfortunately cannot get into the exclusive club, of which you will almost have to be a member if you are to export today for several reasons perhaps. For example: It can be said that fishermen who have an association of gentle coastal fishing cannot be considered. I think it is very unfortunate that we should now start politically what should be said to exclude such large parts of Danish fishing, especially the small players. I must admit that I am actually also lamenting the lack of substance of this motion for a resolution. It has to be said that this is a small niche resolution, and I cannot really understand if the alternative really does not have any more in mind in relation to the whole area of fisheries. Maybe you could have pooled it. My fear is, in fact, that one of the parties with which we almost always vote, namely the Enhedslisten, is to be read out in the fight to table the most superfluous motions for resolutions. I think it is a good thing that we are tabling resolutions, but perhaps we could pool some motions for resolutions so that we could have a more general discussion, because of course it takes up very expensive time. In this context, I could then start by asking the rapporteur how many approaches have been made in the alternative to our Minister for Food to enter into a dialogue on what could be possible in this area. One might also ask the rapporteur how many other parties have had discussions to see whether some kind of conciliation could be achieved in this area. Unfortunately, it reminds most of all of a populist proposal which will have some unfortunate consequences if we implemented it, and therefore, of course, the Left intends to vote against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193347	Thank you. There are two short comments to be made, and the first is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193355	Thank you. I do not agree with the rapporteur's general considerations, but I do agree with the rapporteur that being the MSC mark is not in itself very ambitious, because you can be, and with bottom trawls and everything else you can get this mark. But then the rapporteur said something that I thought went in a slightly different direction to this argument, namely that all fishing in Denmark is sustainable. Does the rapporteur think that all fishing in Denmark is sustainable, in that it does not cause permanent damage to the seabed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193441	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has taken my point quite correctly: the quotas we give to fishing in Denmark are for sustainable fishing, and the fishing we do in Denmark is 100 per cent. sustainable fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193457	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193459	Thank you. Well, then, the rapporteur is completely at odds with, for example. DTU Aqua and with a large number of marine experts who say that bottom trawling is not just a temporary problem compared to the damage that is happening: it is actually a persistent problem and it is not sustainable. I'm not sure we're getting any closer. I just stumbled just over the rapporteur's argument that, on the one hand, the MSC is not ambitious enough and, on the other hand, all fishing in Denmark is sustainable. So that was actually the opposite I just stumbled over.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193547	Well, I certainly haven't said that the MSC isn't ambitious enough. I personally believe that the MSC is superfluous. I think it is inappropriate to have private organisations that should foam the cream on these labelling schemes, which start from being a voluntary scheme and which are then suddenly forced into a whole industry because they boycott the supermarkets that do not want to sell MSC labelled fish, despite the fact that all the fish we fish in Denmark are sustainable. But it is clear that trawling, which is highlighted, like everything we do, puts some sort of impressions. It also puts prints when we have cattle that fart, cattle that burp, it puts prints, whether we produce a chair, or what we do, in Denmark, but we do not have in the Left intentions to completely stop the production of chairs or stop fishing. What we intend to support is sustainable fishing, and there are a lot of things going on in the field of research, so it has to be said that Denmark has the world's most gentle and sustainable fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193652	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193657	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I agree that this effort does not do it alone. After all, we have to work much wider on fishing. This proposal is not a bad idea either, because we have worked a lot in the past on public green procurement, and this is just an area in which we can work with public green procurement. We have, of course, recently had something with sustainable wood that has been implemented. The rapporteur mentions that careful coastal fishing is not included, and that is actually one of the points we do not think is precise enough. We call it natural-minded, and we think we should also include that in the proposal. But I wanted to hear something from the rapporteur. Let us say that Danish fishing is so far advanced, including coastal fishing, and that the purchases we have today are largely of foreign fish on which there is no labelling at all. Isn't there a point, then, that we will actually be able to help the Danish industry by getting more of this fish purchase from the public sector, that is, fish that today goes abroad? In other words, it would actually help the entire fishing industry in Denmark to a large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193821	No, I believe that the Danish fishing industry will be penalised if it is targeted only to buy, for example. IMO-labelled fish. I understand that there is talk of the slightly more undefined concept of gentle fishing. I do not know whether it is all that is defined as 'vod fishing' or 'net fishing'. But when you read the motion for a resolution, it is certainly not clear that an association such as the Association for Smart Coastal Fishing is part of this proposal. My point is that all Danish fishing is sustainable fishing, which is why I really think it is a superfluous proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193901	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193903	Well, then it seems that we can meet in committee. 'Cause the interesting thing is to be gentle about it. And I admit that MSC, for example. do not require that it should not be used scraping methods. That is why we have also mentioned other brands and the broad concepts of gentle fishing. It is simply to be able to make it quite clear in committee so that we get the same things that promote that we are best looking after the harbor that we have at the moment and that is heavily strained by particularly scraping methods of fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426193938	I am very sorry, but there is a little evidence of ignorance in this area. It is not because I deny that the rapporteur has come to terms with this. But my point of saying that it might have been appropriate if we had perhaps tried to make an alliance in advance and discussed it with the Minister is whether there are any possibilities in this area. That's why I may not be able to ignore the fact that it's a little populist either. But in the case of example... as a public institution wishing to buy lobster tails, you simply cannot get lobster tails that are not caught with trawls, if you want Danish lobster tails, well to feel. That is why I simply do not consider the motion for a resolution appropriate. I think it is superfluous, and we certainly do not want it, for example. to deprive municipalities of the opportunity to purchase the fish they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194034	The next brief remark is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194039	Thank you. The rapporteur wanted something more far-reaching. The rapporteur can look forward to 10 May, when the Danish Parliament is to deal with a proposal by a group of parties, namely the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative. Here the rapporteur has the opportunity to deal with the abolition of the Danish quota system, i.e. the termination of the crooked agreement which the rapporteur's party itself has helped to make back in history. There is a chance to start over. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is looking forward to having a fundamental debate on the Danish quota system and looks forward to making adjustments to the quota system so that we can have a better distribution of fishing quotas in Denmark. This will allow more people to have their livelihoods in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194129	As I just said to the previous questioner, I very much disapprove of this kind of populist proposal, so I say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194134	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194136	But the proposal under discussion on 10 May is not populist at all. It is, in fact, very realistic and it is a matter of tackling the quota system we have in Denmark and trying to see if it works well. Our conclusion is that it works very badly and then we would also like to promote the gentle, coastal fishing. I think it has a huge potential. There is so much talk about doing something more for the areas of Denmark where there are not so many people. If you promote local fishing, we really have a potential here. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not be involved in promoting local, gentle fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194210	First of all, all Danish fishing is gentle and sustainable fishing. But then I would also like to say: yes, we in the Left would very much like to promote coastal fishing. This is one of the great values we believe there is in Danish fishing and has great potential both in tourism development and in supporting local ports, etc. We see great potential in coastal fishing because, as I said, it supports many of these local fish houses we have in small communities. So yes, we in the Left would certainly like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194250	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194256	Thank you. I just stumbled over a remark which fell in a reply to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, in which the rapporteur of the Left said that the MSC marking is a superfluous labelling system understood in such a way that it is unnecessary and should not actually be there. After all, we are in a situation in Denmark where we have a one-party government, and when we were discussing streams, it was a little difficult to learn whether it was the rapporteur of the Left or it was the minister who drew the store. Therefore, with a one-party government made up of the Left, I am a little curious whether the Left rapporteur's announcement that the MSC scheme is superfluous is also something we can expect to become the government's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194341	No, you can't. If the rapporteur had heard all my quote, he would have heard that I said: if you ask me personally, I do not think that the MSC marking is appropriate. But it is not part of the Left's policy to break up with it. On the contrary, the Left helped implement the MSC marking as a voluntary scheme, which unfortunately has just had the consequence that people, i.e. green, wild organisations, have chained themselves in front of the supermarkets if these did not use this MSC label. Of course, it has had the boring consequence for many fishermen who have fished sustainably and gently that they have been forced into this MSC label, where you have to pay a contribution to these green organisations to have that mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194424	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194427	I think what confused me was that on the screen just above the rapporteur's head is the rapporteur, Thomas Danielsen. Then I just came to think that perhaps it was the Left Party that the rapporteur spoke on behalf of. Well, then let's jump to another topic, and that's the whole question of there being a movement in this area towards just as appreciating the sustainable and pointing after these marks. It is also a movement by the retail trade and it places greater demands on suppliers. Does the rapporteur not think that in the overall picture we may be able to get more Danish fish into our cooling discs and perhaps also by imposing requirements on the public sector can have a greater demand for Danish fish and less demand for something like pangasius and tiger shrimp, if we make such demands as are being put forward here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194518	On the first question, I was also sceptical about mentioning that this was my personal opinion, as I was afraid that we would not be able to grasp these rather more nuanced considerations. On the second question, I would like to say that I fear that we will have fewer fish in public kitchens rather than more Danish fish in public kitchens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194542	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194553	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is in favour of the proposal and we attach particular importance to the fact that it is the purchase of fish caught in a kindly manner and that it is also a proposal that can promote the sale of organic fish coming from certain fish farms in Denmark. We are also aware that this is not the only thing. Regions and municipalities can, in the future, prioritise their purchases in such a way that they buy more of the fixed fish, which are the most sustainable fish. So municipalities and regions have an opportunity to go further, regardless of whether this proposal is adopted. Where we are perhaps most critical of the proposal is where it is mentioned that it should not be fully implemented until 2020. We're a little impatient, because we'd like to have this sustainable transition at full speed. Why wait as long as 2020 to get it fully implemented? Surely it must be quicker to get the fish on the table. We would very much like to contribute to the promotion of gentle fishing. We believe that there is enormous potential for re-establishing fishing in several ports in Denmark. We believe that one of the shortcomings in the proposal here is to give greater priority to the purchase of freshly caught fish. This can help to ensure that people realise that a freshly caught fish has a quality that is better than a fish that may have been on a larger vessel for a whole week before it came to the fishing auction. So we believe that there is a potential in the sparsely populated areas where there are still some harbour quays where there are not many boats and where there could be more boats. Then there are some trends in society that go in the wrong direction. We've got one of them. see the agricultural package, which opens up new aquaculture in Denmark. We also think it is essential to have a debate on what quality of food the fish that are farmed at sea have. So there is a lower nutritional value in the fish if you buy Norwegian salmon, which is farmed in sea ponds, than if you buy wild fish. The fact is that we really need to make that point in the debate. I think we should have some thorough food debates. There is a certain amount of attention currently being paid to the issues which the Ethnic Council has announced, and on 3 May we will have a more thorough debate between a number of politicians on 3 May. It is actually going to be exciting to dive into, because whatever food we consume, it is important that we look closely at what environmental impact and climate impact this food has. That is why it is a sensible proposal, which the alternative has put forward here, to go for the public procurement of sustainable fish and shellfish. I think, in fact, that municipalities and regions could go out there tomorrow. I would very much like to appeal to that and we support the intentions of the proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194855	Was there one with a brief comment? There wasn't. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach for Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426194910	Thank you and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. After all, it is a pleasure to be able to debate this type of resolution, which, in my view at least, has a degree of consumer awareness and may help listeners and viewers to learn about sustainable fishing and certification in the fisheries sector. I think, when I read the motion for a resolution, that I actually understand the background to the proposal, which I have a certain degree of understanding for. But I just don't think I'm elected to the Folketing to decide what type of fish should be served in the municipalities or what food should be served in the municipalities. In general, this applies to a large number of other things. In fact, I would probably not have stood as a parliamentary politician at all here today if it had not been for the attempts of the former VK government to force food package arrangements down all over the country's day institutions. At that time, I had children myself in day care, and it seemed very mysterious that the government of the country wanted to decide on my children's eating habits and lunches in the day care institution. In the worst case scenario, I think it is a task for municipal councils to decide what should be taken around the municipalities in nursing homes and in public day care centres. And at best, I think it should be the managements and boards of each institution that should decide what to serve. It will then probably also give some major variation in the supply of the offers that we find in the municipalities. It could be that one could imagine a kindergarten or a nursing home where only MSC certified fish were served and that one could then use it to attract children or older fellow citizens to that place. It could also be that one wanted to serve pork only or exclusively meatballs at the institutions concerned. With regard to the sensitive issue of inshore fishing, which has been under way, I would just like to say at the end of the day, before I reject the resolution, that, in the course of a hopefully relatively foreseeable period of time, some discussions will have to be started within the Ministry on a growth plan for fisheries and aquaculture, including, of course, the possibility of maintaining and developing both gentle and less gentle coastal fishing in Denmark. As I mentioned earlier, I should like to reject the motion for a resolution in those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195228	There is one brief comment. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195233	Thank you. That's not surprising. But I'm thinking that we spend a whole lot of money through our tax system... you estimate it to be in the order of 200 billion. kr. a year on public procurement. And is it not right that this money should create some of the development that you would like to see, in other words towards, for example, the creation of something like this? In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. is the case with the MSC marking? Is it not a very good mechanism to use public procurement as a driver to create the development that you would like to see towards a more sustainable future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195329	Yeah, if you had the same idea. However, as I also explained, I believe that the decisions on what should be served around the municipalities must be taken as decentralizedly as possible, as I said: at worst in the municipal councils and, at best, in the management of the individual institutions or of the boards of the individual institutions. That is why I do not think there is any need in this way to implement general government procurement guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195401	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195403	But is it reasonable that local politicians should decide how the marine environment is affected hundreds of kilometres away? Is it not more reasonable to consider from an overall point of view where action is needed to reduce the burden on the marine environment? And we can all help with this through our tax payment in connection with purchases in all the public institutions serving fish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195431	I would never be able to impose such responsibilities on municipal councillors. I believe that should the decision be taken at a higher level, perhaps even at an even higher level than the Parliament we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195450	There are no more too brief remarks. So thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195500	Quite often, actually too often, I think, I meet people around in reality who say: Can't you soon give us some space to decide for yourself some things? Do you have to control everything inside Christiansborg? Why do I have to run for a kindergarten board when you've decided everything anyway? Why should I start citizens' initiatives in my municipality when you have decided everything in Christiansborg anyway? Why do I have to sit in a municipal council when you've decided everything inside Christiansborg? Why do I even have to get involved in my society when you think you're gonna decide everything over at Christiansborg anyway? It is a very good idea to create a framework for municipalities, regions, institutions to act more sustainably. That is, for example, the case. managed to get a lot of ecology in public institutions by creating a framework that makes it attractive. It has succeeded in getting a lot of municipalities to invest in green energy, because it has created a framework that makes it attractive. We have succeeded in getting a great many municipalities to invest in green transport, gas cars, hydrogen cars, electric cars, all kinds of things, because we have created a framework for this. A framework for green conversion has been created, not forced into green conversion. That's what the alternative wants with this proposal. If now there is a municipality that thinks that they want to contribute to green conversion and set in motion a popular process with companies, citizens, institutions, trade unions, associations, and what is now in the municipality, and then find out that they want to invest in getting more electric cars, and have created popular support for it in their municipality, then I think it would be such a pity if the Folketing came and said: No, no. What you need to spend your money on is to buy fish a little more expensive, because we have now decided that this is the way to do it, no matter what you find out for yourself. We therefore disagree with this proposal, which will force municipalities to buy fish in a certain way. Then there is fish in municipal self-government. There are fish in public and popular support, and there are fish in many of the things that are already going on. The worst thing to fear is that fish were being bought: the public institutions simply drop buying fish because a lot of bureaucracy has been made difficult from in here. So we say no to this resolution, but yes to discuss how to create a framework for a more sustainable society in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195753	Thank you. And there's one more brief comment, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195758	Thank you. Is it generally the view of the Radicals that public green procurement is not the way forward? I was just surprised and wondered, because I think that there is a huge potential in public green procurement to create a market that can then also infect the entire private market afterwards, when you have created a certain volume. It can be both ecology, it can be products labelled with the Swan or the Flower, it can be gentle fishing. Is this generally the position of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195835	I think that was such an exciting interpretation of what I said. What I am saying is that we are in favour of a decentralised Denmark, a Denmark where citizens are involved, a Denmark where you have local decision-making skills, and there you go together in the National Association of Municipalities, where you could then make some policy for it. Of course, it is a very good idea to use public procurement to promote sustainable development, new businesses, entrepreneurship, everything. It's an obvious good idea. The only question is whether we should decide from in here in detail how to do it. So we disagree with the alternative. There we have a more decentralized approach to it, and we do not think that the state needs to decide everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195919	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195922	But that is why we are referring to recognised schemes, such as. The MSC label, just as one could choose to refer to the Swan and the Flower as eco-labels, because then one puts precisely the framework that allows us to choose which fish we want, it just needs to have this label, so that we ensure a certain quality and a certain gentleness towards the environment, nature, in this case the marine environment. Is it not a reasonable tool to provide such a general approach, which nevertheless gives a lot of room for manoeuvre to local decision-makers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426195958	Every time I meet public servants who say, "Where does all that control and bureaucracy come from?" Then I say to them that it is because in the best of opinion they have been charged with a lot of things that they then have to document. I think it is very good to have a system of sustainable fishing and labelling for it. The only question is whether we should require the municipalities to demonstrate that all the fish they serve, buy in, comply with the labelling system. Then some people will have to sit here in Copenhagen and check that the municipalities' inspectors have checked correctly, and then we have hired some more people to check each other, instead of actually buying some fish for those people who would like to have some fish. That is why we are abstaining from these state controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the SF, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200102	Thank you to the alternative for putting forward this proposal so that we can have the discussion. There are good tactics in it, and then there are some things that the SF hopes we can discuss in committee. But I think this is a really, really important debate about sustainable fishing and for many reasons, so I would like to spend some of my speaking time on the background. After all, in 2007, the VK government privatised a common good: the fish that are in our seas. After that, the right to fish a commodity has become a speculative object, in which rights have been rented out or sold to the highest bidder, who is already the richest fishermen with large banks in their backs who are prepared to outbid the smaller fishermen at any price. Today there are too few buyers for too expensive quotas, and it costs local communities where larger and larger vessels are served by ever fewer hands. 100 ports are closed or halved and it is almost impossible for young fishermen to enter the market. To serve the same as a primary school teacher, you have to buy quotas for 30-40 million. kr. And there has been a halving of the number of jobs since 2000. It is not open to discussion whether this development is due to the privatisation of quotas, it is a fact. We have seen quota concentrations where billions have been collected in a few hands, and at the same time it has resulted in fewer jobs, closed ports and communities withering. So if you want to do something both for the sustainability of our fish in our seas, but certainly also for sustainability in local communities and for local jobs, it is sustainable fishing that is the way forward. This is where there are most local jobs. That is where the fish are landed, instead of all sorts of strange places. This is the way for some of the most threatened communities, which have been completely dependent on local fishing and are about to die out now because the port is closed and which have not yet been fully wiped out, to have a chance to survive. That is why it is so important in addition to all the good in terms of marine sustainability, fish and so on, and it will mean a huge difference for the communities that are completely dependent on the fishing and not on giant bottom trawlers, like no, not fishing sustainably and where there are incredibly many quotas that are placed in very few hands, and also with very few jobs to do. We have had a fishery where it is completely impossible for young people to get in unless they organize themselves as in the new cooperative communities, which we fortunately see as a few bright spots around. The very specific proposal contains some problems from the point of view of the SF. We like the idea. I'd like to make that clear. But there are two things. One is in relation to the MSC brand and the ASC mark: we do not think that they guarantee to a large extent gentle fishing or organically farmed fishing. I'll get back to that. The second point is that we believe that organic fishing, unlike farming, creates confusion about the concept of ecology. Compared with the first, we in the SF, together with other good forces in the Parliamentary Assembly, have long proposed a labelling scheme for nature-friendly fishing, because the MSC label only guarantees that the fish are not caught illegally or with total destruction as a result. For example: is clam scraping and bottom trawling, after all, the MSC mark. There has also been a general criticism of this. The ASC label has been criticised for promoting fish farming at the expense of local fishing. As far as my second point is concerned, organic food is characterised by the fact that production is under human control. It is also in fish farming, but not in fishing on the high seas. But SF supports what we see as the main purpose of the alternative, namely the extension of nature-friendly coastal fishing in Denmark and other countries. We believe that this is best done by means of a credible labelling system that is targeted at locally sustainable fishing, and preferably assisted by public procurement. In conclusion, I have perhaps not said this in quite as strong terms as the radical rapporteur, that I am divided between what we want to do to promote sustainable development, including through public procurement of 290 billion. kr. Every year, and the little municipal autonomy that's left in this country. I also have a soft point for that. So perhaps we could see how we are meeting some of these concerns by saying: we are redefining some quotas for sustainable fishing. We support it financially, as we already do today. We are giving much more favourable conditions so that it will be the most desirable product to buy out in today's institutions. I think we want the same thing, so I'm sure we can reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200623	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200626	Thank you for the super-exciting input and, of course, I look forward to discussing it in committee. Should I understand the rapporteur's view that there is simply a need for a new label covering it both with the gentle inshore fishing and the stock approach itself? Is that it, and do we need a brand new?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200647	You always have to be careful about this, that the good is the best's worst enemy, and I think it's a great victory that three out of four of the fishes are now being sold in Denmark. However, if you mislead the consumer into thinking that it has not been fished with bottom trawls etc., then that is a problem, and we have said again and again to the previous government: let us now give coastal fishermen the labelling system that they want. This does not mean that we are pushing out conventional fishing, but we are making it much clearer what really sustainable fishing is. I do not want to say that if the best thing to do is to use the labelling schemes that exist, then we should not use it, but I do not believe that we have a label today that the Danes know and that is really sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200750	Thank you. And then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200806	Conservatives are voting against the motion for a resolution. We understand that we want to do something to ensure sustainable fishing around the world, but we are probably somewhat reluctant, like the other parties, to make too much detailed regulation of how local authorities' procurement policy should be. We are not so much in favour of very central and state political control, as the alternative is in any case proposing in this case. And I would also agree with the rapporteur of the Left that perhaps some consultations could be held before a resolution like this is tabled. It depends, of course, on what its purpose is, i.e. whether it is to make a political mark or whether the purpose is really to get something through. But, of course, I assume that this is the last thing, which is why I would recommend that it be possible to take it up at a meeting with the Minister, and then I am sure he would like to talk further about what can be done in this area. But we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200913	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426200922	Thank you. Now I have heard it several times, and I regret that I have not worked well enough on the negotiating level, but I can learn something from that because I am new to the Folketing. If the rapporteur does not think, as I myself do, that some of the things that can be done by imposing public procurement requirements are that you can create a large market for what you want, that is, in this case, a more gentle and sustainable fishing, which can then also be contaminated on the private market and thus create something that also creates growth out there, where, for example, there is a lack of transparency. Is the fishing carried out with tenderness?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201006	No, we don't think that. In fact, we believe that the main purpose of the state when purchasing must be to get as good and cheap products as possible, and we also believe that this is an obligation when you are a public institution, and that also applies, of course, to the municipalities. So this whole thing about constantly taking a whole lot of political considerations into account in our purchases is not our preferred way of controlling world development. We believe that there must be rules on how companies should act, but once they have been respected, we actually believe that the public sector should be able to buy relatively freely instead of constantly putting political considerations on it. I think we should be very careful about this in relation to the public sector. Because it will be very, very ineffective if there are to be all kinds of political considerations and demands to behave politically correctly to govern its actions. So it's too planned for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201106	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201108	But as the green party in the blue block, one could take the position that it is said that, for our tax dollars, we must promote the development that we would like to see in a green transition. Wasn't that a good approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201127	It is certainly a vacant position among the blue parties. I agree with that, but that does not mean that we want to take it. We think it would be unreasonable, so we cannot support it. We are a green party, that is right, and thank you for recognising it, but we are also a party in favour of a market economy, and we are not a party in favour of the public sector being constantly governed in detail by Christiansborg in terms of procurement policy and everything else. So we will probably choose some other tools in order to promote the objectives of sustainable fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201202	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we come to the conclusion that it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201225	Thank you. Today, we have fishing that is far from sustainable. We have a great use of scraping gear, we have large by-catches, we have quotas on fewer and fewer hands and ports that are depopulated and where fishing dies out, and therefore, in the eyes of the alternative, we need to promote the most gentle and sustainable fishing in Denmark. With this proposal we have highlighted the labels MSC and ASC. We are well aware that these marks are not perfect, but we also have the impression that there is a certain amount of volume and that it can make great progress if we promote fisheries within these labels, and we also think that it is sensible to put the public sector ahead. It is reasonable that our tax dollars go to the least burdensome solutions, and when we make demands on public procurement in this way, we can be green and sustainable. By creating public procurement in this area, we will be able to create a market volume which will provide greater security for the marketing of fishermen who do so in a good way and, if you have a more stable market, it will in the long term create lower prices and thus also a basis for a larger private market. So this is the basis on which we have put forward this proposal for the purchase of sustainable fish and shellfish in the public sector. Then I would like to thank you for a good debate today. I hear that there are different wishes to specify a little more precisely what we are dealing with here, and that there is a little confusion about what naturefulness and organisation really mean. In this context, we have, of course, meant organic fish farming, because you can't talk about organically caught fish. But these are all things we would very much like to specify in the committee's work. So thank you for a good debate and I look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201449	But before that, there is a brief comment from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201455	Thank you. The rapporteur can be absolutely sure that we love to discuss fisheries policy and promote positive developments for the industry. And I am sure that the rapporteur also intends to do so, even though we certainly do not agree on how to achieve this. What makes me speak anyway is actually what I asked for in my speech, where the rapporteur did not really answer my questions. But I have the opportunity to get those answers now. And what I am looking for is: what is the alternative to this, since it has been drawn up as a motion for a resolution? However, it may well be that position in the alternative without tabling any motions for resolutions. The reason I am asking is that I think it is a little out of order simply to table a motion for a resolution without searching for any alliances, that is, what I would regard as real policy, in the interests of achieving a real result. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur how many inquiries have been made in this question to the Minister in this area to see if there could be any results and how many inquiries have been made to all our colleagues in the various parties to see whether there could be any support or some results.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201619	Thank you. I can certainly learn a lot more from this work in the Danish Parliament, which is new to me, and I have not before this question asked or been around exploring where all the other political parties are in this work. I have taken as a starting point the fact that we in the Alternative generally think it is a good idea to promote green and sustainable public procurement, and that there is a situation where the marine environment in Denmark is burdened by fishing and where there is a need to promote development, especially in coastal fishing, which is coming to a halt, so promoting that we get more gentle fishing. And you could, among other things. do with the help of this solution. I admit that my preparatory work in relation to cooperation with other parties could certainly have been much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201714	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201716	It is, in fact, only because I think that the rapporteur should not, of course, be burdened with the fact that it is a little out of order, as I also mentioned, that our colleagues in the Enhedslisten are tabling a whole series of motions for resolutions which have only changed a comma. I think we should have respect for each other's time here in the Folketing, and unfortunately there is a very valuable time that could otherwise have been made sensible. That is why I am simply appealing for a lot of fisheries policy to be put together instead, and then we will have a debate on it instead of making a resolution as a single party, and then all other parties can vote it down so that instead they seek out some alliances in order to get their policies through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201804	It sounds like an excellent idea to put more proposals together in a package. I can also see that has happened recently with a chemical package and a natural package that we have talked about. So I will definitely consider that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201819	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201841	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426201900	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution. Let me begin by stating that I do not agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that in the field of pesticides there is a need to compensate for the abolition of the peripheral zones and I do not agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution banning the spraying of section 3 areas. Firstly, the watercourses are still protected by the distance requirements imposed in connection with the authorisation of pesticides. Secondly, most of the covered section 3 areas are usually not sprayed in practice. Let me also stress that we have an excellent spray strategy, which has been agreed by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which acts as a majority, which also includes the SF. Nevertheless, I find it interesting to discuss the proposed elements in the light of the fact that the current pesticide strategy expires at the end of 2016. The Danish EPA is engaged in a broad stakeholder involvement in the light of the fact that the current pesticide strategy expires at the end of 2016. Let me now comment on the individual parts of the motion for a resolution. I agree that we must continue to have a restrictive authorisation system in Denmark. The cut-off criteria for the particularly problematic pesticide active substances, e.g. substances likely to be carcinogenic do not apply to co-formulants. In accordance with the Pesticides Regulation, a list of problematic excipients is to be drawn up. It is my view that co-formulants must not have properties that meet the cut-off criteria for the active substances, including carcinogenic or harmful to the foetus, reproductive or genetic systems, and endocrine disrupting properties. In addition, other excipients may be considered problematic and should therefore be excluded from use in syringes. The Danish EPA participates in the EU Working Group in order to establish criteria and process for establishing the list of problematic co-formulants. There are few pesticides approved in Denmark that contain particularly problematic active substances. These are subject to a high tax, which in fact encourages their use only if they are absolutely necessary. The charge is calculated on the classification of the finished pesticides. This means that in Denmark there is a strong incentive to choose co-formulants without health risks in order to reduce the tax. The proposers also propose the introduction of requirements for best available techniques, or what we call BAT, best usable technology, for spraying technology with a timetable for banning ineffective spraying techniques. There is already a great deal of focus today on minimising accidental releases of pesticides from pesticide syringes both in Denmark and in the rest of the EU. The Framework Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides provides for the introduction in all Member States of requirements for all pesticide spray equipment to undergo a mandatory inspection if it is to be used after November 2016. This minimises the risk of adverse effects of equipment on the environment and health. In Denmark, the first syringes were seen at the beginning of 2014 and the last must be seen at the latest by season 2017. The introduction of vision requirements means that a number of older syringes will be decommissioned. It is expected that a number of farmers will buy new syringes, join machine communities or have the spray work done by machinery stations that use new and intelligent syringes to a large extent. I therefore expect the existing farm spray park to be modernised. I would also like to remind you that since 2010 farmers have been able to apply for subsidies for investment in new technology with the aim of reducing pesticide consumption. Since 2010, approx. 180 million kr. in support of this. The government wants to make it attractive for farmers to invest in new and intelligent spraying equipment. The pesticide tax supports the fact that optimising pesticide consumption is always worthwhile. As regards making mandatory the guidelines for IPM, that is integrated pest management, which we refer to as integrated plant protection, I can say that it is already mandatory to cultivate the eight IPM principles that are part of the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. The general principles are implemented through the establishment of a number of concrete actions. Since farms are different, the measures can be very different on the individual farms. More efforts are being made in the current spray strategy to ensure the implementation of the IPM: Targeted advice has been carried out, a number of crop-specific cultivation guidelines have been prepared, and a greater focus on IPM has been given to the training of sprayers. Finally, farmers are informed of the principles at the time of verification. I therefore consider that farmers have a good starting point for implementing the IPM principles and do not believe that a certification scheme for production should be introduced. The overall aim of the pesticide strategy is to reduce the pesticide load by 40%. in 2015 in relation to the calculated level in 2011 based on quantities sold. The load indicators express the potential overall burden on health and the environment from a number of data on the environmental and health properties of pesticides. The latest available data from 2014 show that the load based on sales volumes has decreased by 55%, while the load based on actual consumption has decreased by 18%. in the period 2011-2014. The large difference is probably an indication that, before the pesticide tax came into force, there was considerable hoarding of pesticides and that, at least in 2014, stocks had not yet been used up. The frequency of treatment describes how many times, on average, the total agricultural area could be treated with the pesticides if they were applied in a standard dosage. Despite the historically low sales, the treatment rate in 2014 was 2.7. However, the overall burden of several treatments is less and this is not reflected in the treatment frequency. Therefore, it does not make sense to focus on whether the treatment frequency increases as long as the load indicator falls. Finally, it proposes to strengthen the enforcement of limit values for pesticide residues in food so that penalties are imposed for any overrun. I do not think that is the way forward. It is not true that today there is a lax practice for the enforcement of limit values, because the Danish Food Authority must respond at all times to a violation of the pesticide rules and apply the penalty necessary to motivate compliance with the rules. It would be an aggravating circumstance if there were repeated or serious infringements. However, the penalty must not be unduly intrusive, as there must be proportionality between infringement and sanction. The Danish Food Safety Authority's principles of control focus on the preventive element. Automatic sanctioning at any exceedance could stand in the way of the Authority's ability to use guidance and dialogue. Counselling and dialogue are often the best instruments for companies to comply with the rules in the future. In fact, guidance and dialogue can lead to companies imposing the necessary requirements on their food suppliers, thereby having a preventive effect in relation to exceeding pesticide residue limits. Against this background, the government rejects the overall motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426202544	Thank you to the Minister and there is one with a brief comment. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426202548	Now the Minister has to forgive me for asking about it. It was a longer speech if the Minister mentioned it. However, did the Minister mention that the IPM guidelines could be made compulsory? This is something that SEGES highlights, and it is something that the Ministry highlights, that is to say that it is actually very good and sensible, also economically, ways of minimising its pesticide consumption by doing some things a little differently than you might otherwise have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426202630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426202631	Thank you for the question. It does not matter that the questioner asks questions about something I have touched on. I would like to say this again: in relation to the IPM, it is mandatory. It is mandatory to cultivate in accordance with the eight IPM principles included in the Framework Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. So it's mandatory today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426202651	Does the author wish to speak on a second brief point? No. Then we say thank you to the Minister and we start on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426202711	The motion for a resolution we are debating here will require the government to implement five measures aimed at creating a more sustainable use of pesticides for the benefit of our environment and for the benefit of the health of the Danes. In concrete terms, the proposal involves firstly that pesticides with unintentionally hazardous properties should not be approved in Denmark. Secondly, requirements must be put in place to ensure that the best injection technique is used. In addition, the proposers want a timetable for banning ineffective spraying techniques. Thirdly, the government must ensure that the guidelines currently in place for integrated plant protection are repealed into law and thus become mandatory. Fourthly, action must be taken in cases where the frequency of treatment, i.e. the overall pesticide pressure, increases, even if the load indicators, which can be translated into the harmful effects we know today, fall. Fifthly, the proposers would like to see the limit values for pesticide residues in food be better enforced and any overrun sanctioned. There should be no doubt that the Social Democrats, like the SF, want the use of pesticides not to cause ordinary Danes to become ill. Nor should there be any doubt that the use of pesticides should not unduly burden our vulnerable nature and the environment. It is, in fact, a matter for the Socialists. During our reign we mourned, among other things. together with the SF for Denmark to have a spray strategy. At the same time, we banned spraying and fertilization on natural protected areas. This meant two major steps in the right direction and two major gains for our nature, for our environment and for the health of the Danes. This is a course that we in the Socialists want us to continue with. We therefore want a new spray strategy to replace the current one, which expires at the end of the year, as the Minister also pointed out. We believe that an overall agreement that tackles all the challenges associated with pesticides is the right way to go, thereby ensuring that all initiatives are put on the table and we can ensure that, in a single priority, we get the most out of our resources. It is against this background that we cannot support the SF's proposal at this stage. Having said that, we believe that the initiatives that the SF has put forward here can easily be included in future discussions on a pesticide strategy, and basically we find the proposals to be sympathetic. In this context, the Socialists would like to call on the government to call for negotiations on a new pesticide strategy. It is our hope that the government will help to reach a broad agreement that can ensure a sound use of pesticides, where we do not gamble with the health of the Danes or with our environment and nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203025	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203029	The rapporteur must try to explain to me why this proposal cannot be supported if it is not because there are some parts of what is opposed. I do not see that this proposal means that at the same time we will not also be taking a new round of the spray strategy, which was a really, really good move and which gives very concrete instructions on how to move forward over the next few years. So this is a strategy, this is legislation. So it is not to replace a new round of the strategy that we have proposed this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203119	I agree with that, but it comes and needs to be renewed from the turn of the year. There we just think that the right context to take these discussions in, no matter how sympathetic these proposals may be, is to have a comprehensive look at this field and then take it in the context of negotiating a new pesticide strategy. That is certainly the method we are most in favour of, and that is why, with reference to the debate we had earlier this evening, we will not go to read the last chapter of the book first, but, like trying to get it all on the table and then make a global priority, an overall discussion of what can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203157	This is, after all, an overall discussion of the pesticide sector. Strategy is what we do next year or for the next 2 years or for the next 3 years it is a strategy. This is, if not a framework law, an attempt to make a resolution which hits it a little wider and for example. also says that those who vote for it here think that the ban on pesticides in § 3 nature is problematic and that the removal of peripheral zones is problematic because they see it as a whole in relation to pesticide efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203243	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203244	Thank you. However, there may be individual measures that are assessed against the whole, and for us this has been the case with the peripheral zones, which were mentioned here, and other measures. That is why we also believe that we should have it all on the table and then discuss it together when we discuss a new round in the context of the pesticide strategy. I think we are just seeing things differently on the way to the objective that I have the impression we share and which I have also tried to outline in my speech. We just think that it is in the debate on a new strategy that we should take a global priority on this whole field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203322	We thank the Socialist rapporteur and move on to Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203331	Thank you. This SF proposal actually contains five sub-proposals. One is that we should not approve pesticides with unintended dangerous properties. To that I just want to say that we are not now. We have tough authorisation requirements to ensure that pesticides with particularly problematic properties are not authorised if there is an unacceptable risk to human health or to the environment. In Denmark we have special restrictions on all degradation products, namely that they must comply with a limit value of 0.1. In the rest of the EU, a distinction is made between relevant and non-relevant degradation products. The speciality of the Danish requirements means that a number of plant protection products cannot be authorised in Denmark even if they are authorised in other countries. So we have regarding the requirement for BAT for spray technology and the requirement to make the guidelines for IPM mandatory for primary producers, Denmark has introduced the EU requirements that all spray equipment should appear by November 2016. And as far as IPM is concerned, it is already mandatory to cultivate the principles set out in the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. The last two sub-proposals, on the one hand, to intervene if the frequency of treatment increases, even if the load indicators fall, and on the other hand to strengthen the enforcement of maximum levels for pesticide residues in food, so that penalties are imposed at any overrun, are not so relevant, as the aim of the pesticide strategy for 2013-2016 is, of course, to reduce the impact of pesticides on health, nature and groundwater by 40%. After all, this spray strategy was extended by 1 year, precisely to get the right evaluations. By the way, Aarhus University has calculated that the treatment frequency in Denmark in 2007, for example. In relation to wheat, it was 2.6, whereas for example it was 2.6. in England was 6.7. So Denmark is definitely at the lowest end. A new pesticide strategy is to be adopted for 2017-2020, and at that time SF can come up with some proposals for amendments, because SF is also included in the agreement on the pesticide strategy. With regard to penalties for any exceedance of the maximum level for pesticide residues, I still believe that the current principles of control and sanctioning by the Danish Food Safety Agency should apply. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203621	There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203625	I am just aware that the rapporteur can say with such certainty that we know that these chemicals are not harmful. I would like to mention that there is a very, very great debate about the fact that we do not know when chemicals are harmful, because we cannot at this stage take into account what is called the cocktail effect, where different substances play together and can reinforce each other. So there is no doubt that we have no idea what we are dealing with, and that is why researchers, among other things. in the field of reproduction, growth and damage from endocrine disruptors, says that we need to regulate this area more restrictively. Because it can be many years before we have the necessary knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203713	We already do that. After all, there is a lot of research going on, and Denmark has some very strict requirements compared to most other countries, and we have some of the cleanest drinking water in the world. That's why I don't think we should paint the damn thing on the wall. Of course, we need to keep researching, and of course we need to be careful if there are any cocktail effects. I'm not technically informed, I'm not a biologist, and all that fine stuff is called, but we also have to trust some of those who know something about this, and then do research until we can see what else can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203755	If we are to listen to those who know something about this, we must try to take into account the cocktail effects by using a precautionary principle that puts human health first and where, although we do not have complete knowledge, we go in and regulate chemical substances. Right now, we have a set of rules based on what we know, not on what we do not know, and there is a political decision to extend regulation to other substances on the basis of the precautionary principle. The blame cannot be passed on to the official work or to those who sit and administer rules that are clearly inadequate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203827	I am quite confident about what we have with the knowledge we have so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203834	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203835	It is good that the rapporteur is safe because there are very many others who are not, for example. at the National Hospital Center for Hormone Disturbing Substances, where they research both the individual drugs, but also in what is perhaps the biggest problem and what is most comprehensive, namely the cocktail effects. I have visited the centre, but they have also been in the committee several times, both in the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Environment and Food. They say that there is a very, very sharp increase in the number of infants where it is very difficult to see what sex they are; children who go into puberty all too soon; boys with too much estrogen; girls with too much testosterone; men who get testicular cancer • relationships that relate to our reproductive abilities. So all that will be called endocrine disrupting disorders is increasing rapidly. When we look at a map of Scandinavia, we can see that Denmark is much, much more burdened than Norway and Sweden. One of the reasons for this could be that our area is so much more covered by agricultural land, and that is why we need to look at pesticide consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426203953	I've seen a study on fruit. The limit value in Danish fruit had not been reached at all, whereas fruit we import may have pesticide residues in which may be above the limit value. So, as such, it is not a Danish phenomenon alone. We are incredibly much better than many other countries to manage this. We'll continue researching it, and we'll find out something else, we'll make rules by it. We also need to stop having an interest in creating fear of something we actually do not know anything about yet for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204035	I just think that what may have provoked me now I should not also be speaking on behalf of the Enhedslisten rapporteur was that DF's rapporteur so sloppyly said about this not approving pesticides with unintended dangerous properties that we do not do in Denmark either. I don't think anyone else will sign that. We are much better than many other countries, yes, but there are substances which we do not know about and which are not under a precautionary principle. Denmark is a country where the cocktail effects, especially in relation to endocrine disruptors, are far too high, also in relation to comparable countries. So this proposal is not even the most ambitious one could imagine. In fact, it is something that one could hope to create support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204126	After all, many plant protection products have not been authorised in Denmark but have been authorised in other EU countries. We have to look at a package together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204137	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, so that's Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204150	Thank you. There is good reason to focus on the risk associated with the use of pesticides, and it is essential that the potential harmful effects of pesticide use are limited for environmental and public health reasons, and that is precisely why a new pesticide strategy must also be negotiated for 2017-2020. Specifically, the SF proposes, firstly, that the government does not approve pesticides with unintended and dangerous properties. The Left believes that the rules of the Pesticides Regulation are sufficient to ensure that pesticides with particularly problematic properties are not authorised. Indeed, the tough authorisation system that we have today ensures that pesticides are approved only if a risk assessment shows that they do not present a high risk to human health or the environment. Secondly, the SF proposes to introduce requirements for best available techniques, the so-called BAT, for spraying techniques with a timetable for banning inefficient spraying techniques. The Left rejects the proposal because at EU level the necessary tools have not been developed and the conclusions reached in the field of spray technology which will be a prerequisite for Denmark to introduce BAT, and since Denmark has introduced EU requirements that all spray equipment should have undergone mandatory inspection by November 2016 and should subsequently appear at a few years' intervals, some older spray equipment is likely to be phased out. Denmark should not go alone in relation to the EU, as Danish farmers will find that they will be worse off than competitors in the rest of the EU, and that would then be a new burden on an already hard-pressed industry. Thirdly, the SF proposes that the government should draw up a plan to make the guidelines for integrated plant protection compulsory for primary producers in agriculture, horticulture and fruit growing, and the Left rejects the proposal because it is already compulsory to cultivate the eight so-called IPM principles included in the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. Fourthly, the SF proposes that the government intervene if the treatment frequency increases even if the load indicators decrease. And the Left rejects the proposal as the target of the pesticide strategy 2013-2016 was changed from a target of reduction in the treatment frequency to a target of a 40% reduction in the load on pesticides. Fifthly, the SF proposes to strengthen the enforcement of limit values for pesticide residues in food so that penalties are imposed for any overrun. The Left rejects the proposal, as the principles governing the control of the FDA, including the guidelines for sanctioning, already focus on the preventive element. The Left will vote against the proposal, as a new pesticide strategy will instead be negotiated for the period 2017-2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204504	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204513	Thank you. Only today, the bourgeois majority in the Danish Parliament has voted in favour of a bill roll ing a spray ban and a fertiliser ban on section 3 protected natural areas back. In the past, other parts of an agricultural package have been implemented which removes peripheral zones and which increase fertiliser quantities in the Danish fields. These initiatives lead to increased pesticide use in Denmark. This is worrying because we do not manage the negative effects of pesticides. Today we can risk assessing the individual pesticide, but we have very, very little knowledge and very little understanding of how the different pesticides play together and reinforce each other's effects • what is called the cocktail effect. This is something that scientists have been warning about for quite a number of years now. They have shouted in arms, have said very clearly that you have to take care of everything that we do not know about the chemical substances that are around us that are in our everyday lives that are in our food that is in our cosmetics and in our clothes and in all sorts of other places. Therefore, it is very much the wrong way to go about implementing a number of initiatives that increase pesticide consumption. In addition, there are also problems with the spray equipment used when, for example, we are using it. can measure increasing concentrations of the spray poison called prosulfocarb in the rainwater. It is simply unacceptable that in the autumn it rains pesticides down on the Danes' gardens, down all kinds of land that has nothing to do with agriculture. I really think that the SF's proposal is quite pragmatic. It is not because the SF is proposing to take pesticides from agriculture tomorrow. We want to ensure that we remain on a path where pesticide consumption is reduced. We would like to ensure that we intervene if we fail to do so if the frequency of treatment increases. We want to ensure that some pesticides with additives which we know to be dangerous are released immediately. It would like to introduce BAT technologies which, in relation to prosulfocarb, could perhaps remedy some of the problem. In general terms, then, I think that we have tried to put ourselves in a pragmatic and peaceful place, probably also with the intention and the hope of building support in this Parliament, so that we can do exactly what the researchers so clearly ask us to do: take into account everything we do not know and ensure that the health of the population takes precedence over agricultural considerations in this context or the consideration of a particular branch of agricultural production. So from Enhedslisten's side, we will clearly support this proposal. We think it is quite reasonable, and we think it is a pity that it cannot gather wider support in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204836	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426204853	Thank you. I was perhaps just sitting around for a moment, but I am completely on the mark again and I just have to say very briefly that the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution here. I'm not gonna whip on it a lot. Many arguments have been put forward in the past by both the government and rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and the Left. One of the reasons is that we really feel that the rules of the pesticide regulation, as it is at present, are sufficient and that only pesticides have been authorised following a risk assessment which shows that there is no unacceptable risk to humans and the environment when properly used. After all, Denmark has also introduced the above mentioned EU requirements for spray equipment and the mandatory view that must now be on it, in addition to the mandatory principles contained in the framework directive, also for the sustainable use of pesticides. So the Liberal Alliance basically thinks we're well covered in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205010	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205013	Thank you. It was almost such a passionate speech by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, so I think we should bring it up to a slightly higher level and also talk about values. Is it a liberal value that there are some other costs, including economic and health costs, which we can see are rising sharply? We know it's coming for our surroundings. Scientists say that the precautionary principle that is being applied today is by no means enough. And whether you call pesticide the neutral pesticide and you almost poetically call it plant protection is pesticide poison, and that affects us. I would therefore just like to ask whether it is a liberal value that other people should be unwittingly affected by the actions taken elsewhere in society, without applying the precautionary principle recommended by those who know something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205129	Thank you. Thank you for the question. I am sorry that the SF rapporteur could not feel the passion of my rapporteur's speech. And it was definitely not poetic, because I'm actually very little poetic. But it is true that the term 'plant protection' can be used. The SF's rapporteur describes some increasing social costs, as I know, may not necessarily have been documented from these influences. And I still have a great deal of confidence, like previous rapporteurs, in the risk assessments that are already being carried out by these plant protection products.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205218	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and goes further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205227	In the alternative, we are generally concerned about the great chemical experiment that we are doing here in the world. And the pesticides are, after all, a group of chemicals that are particularly potent, they are precisely designed to kill, to eliminate the things that you do not want in farming. In short, we are in favour of the proposals that the SF makes here. We think these are some interesting suggestions. I would just like to say that, in relation to the Minister's review, I was surprised that the IPM directive should have been fully implemented. As I recall, one of the components of this directive is, after all, the ban on spraying in the peripheral areas, which has just been lifted. And that means that then we do not have quite as good an implementation as is necessary for this directive to be covered. But we need to learn more about this in the committee work. Overall, we are fully in favour of SF's proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205339	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205346	It is, of course, an important debate that SF is raising today, because the amount of pesticides and pesticides we use in Denmark is of course crucial to how our groundwater is doing. And I think there are many of us who are happy that Denmark is a country where you can tap water from the tap and that it has not been through all possible processing, chlorine treatment and what else you know from other countries. That is why I listened very carefully to the speech by the Minister for the Environment and Food, where he said that a political process is coming towards New Year's when a new pesticide strategy is to be adopted in Denmark. We will look forward to that very much, and we hope that we will be able to take part in that work. We have three basic principles on which we work in the Radical Left. The first is that we put health and water first. So if there is uncertainty as to whether or not a spray has a bad effect, we will be on the side of health and water. We want to keep pushing agriculture towards using fewer pesticides that damage our groundwater. And then we want a transition to more organic farming, because it also reduces the emission of harmful substances. We think that a great many of the SF's proposals in this resolution are excellent. Then you can discuss what it is like to be able to implement EU legislation and some of what some colleagues have said. However, the Radical Left hopes that in committee we may be able to land some report, some text in which we agree to work with each other towards drawing up a strategy for the next three years, which is also what the Minister has proposed and in which we then try to lay down some principles that we want to protect groundwater and some of the things I mentioned just now. So I hope that I can get out of it and we think the SF's proposal sounds reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205557	A brief comment on Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205600	I would like to thank you for your fine remarks. Politics is also about achieving results, and that is why this is a practically peaceful proposal, I think Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding called it that. You don't quite know how to take it. But it is true that this is a very, very pragmatic proposal. These are five or six points on which I think we could really agree in this Chamber. I know that the most controversial thing is about peripheral zones and section 3 areas. We have just voted in favour of this today. When we make some probes with the Minister and see if we can really move something here, so that we can at least get some way along the way, I hope, if we do not get something firm here, that the Radicals will at least consider voting in favour of this. Because, as the rapporteur said, pesticide levels are a real problem, and with government policy it has only increased. So if we can reach each other, I would like to do so, instead of just sending it to the vote. But otherwise I hope that the Radicals will come up with support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205718	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205719	This is certainly the way forward, but of course we would also like to listen to what the professionals in the Ministry will come up with if any of this is rejected. That is what we need to find out in committee. Sir. Erling Bonnesen made an argument that something would be difficult to implement legally in relation to EU legislation, and of course we have to listen to that. But I think there are some very good proposals here. We would very much like to continue working on this, and I also hope that we can obtain a broad majority in committee in order to give a direction to the negotiations that I understand from the Minister we must have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205757	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205758	I would also like to say that there are some of the comments that have been made by some rapporteurs today to which I look forward in committee. It may also go the other way, in other words, that the rapporteur may be mystified in relation to some of the things that come out in the Chamber. Because again, this proposal is actually made in order to make it feasible, it should be relatively pragmatic. This is not a ban. This is substitution, etc. etc. These are realisable opportunities in relation to EU legislation, etc. Of course, the rapporteur should not be accountable for this. I just do not think that we should make myths about what we can, after all, decide ourselves in Denmark, and not always say that it is the EU's fault.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205840	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205841	I fully agree with that, and I also think that these are good proposals that we should be able to work on together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205847	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426205909	I would like to thank all the parties. I am, of course, most pleased with the comments of those who have come forward with the proposal. I really think that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten said it very precisely, and I choose not to take it as a negative comment that this is a very pragmatic proposal. So we should be able to support it without expecting Danish agriculture to turn the keys tomorrow. In fact, I find it a little sad when you make a proposal that is so pragmatic, taking into account EU legislation, taking into account substitution instead of prohibition and phasing-out instead of prohibition etc., that you get exactly the same reaction in this thing as if I had put forward an all-or-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. So I think it's a bit of a bit of a bore to say it on Jutland's reaction patterns that we sometimes have in here. When we spend a very long time doing something that is permissible, realistic, pragmatic, something we could meet about, it is exactly the same reactions as usual, depending on where you stand in the blocks. Now I'm a little pissed off, I'm gonna be okay. I think that is a pity, because it does not provide an incentive for making resolutions which are perhaps more pragmatic than they were most likely to be. You walk away from where you'd rather be, and you say, "Okay, what are we actually gonna meet about?" So I think it's too bad. This isn't the best of all worlds in SF optics. It's not. It was a step on the way to getting to a place where we could start giving some incentives to substitute, be sure that BAT is being used, be sure that the principles are being applied, because I am also looking forward to hearing the Minister about this with the fact that it is mandatory. At least it was new to me that everyone is using them. And then there is this intervention if the frequency of treatment increases, even if the indicators fall, all sorts of things that I and we in the SF really think are quite common sense and something that would ensure a smooth transition to a much lower pesticide level. Some of this is also something we have committed ourselves to in other respects. I actually think it's the same as usual. On the one hand, they say no, or that we are making a strategy or something, and on the other hand there are some who support, and I am glad of that, so it is not aimed at them. We must be careful, and I do agree with the rapporteur on the previous proposal, that this is not just a scene for actions that look really good, but which we know do not have a Chineseman's chance of being adopted or of becoming politics. When you get involved in presenting something that is not even a hundred percent of what you might want and think that there may be a chance that we can find each other in committee, the automatic reaction is there anyway. I'm sorry. Having said that, I would like to take the proposals to the Minister and I also hope that we can start a discussion on it now. I think that the rapporteur of the Radicals is now not here a little inwardly said, suggesting that if we could achieve a good deal in the strategy then that is also a result. We also need to be careful that it does not become one step forward and two steps backwards. As Mary Gjerding mentioned... ma'am). I'm sorry, Maria. I'm sorry, Maria Gjerding, Mrs Maria Gjerding. I'm quitting now! It was the little sour upbringing. I meant it. If there is no majority in favour of it if it comes to the vote and I think I have an idea of the way the wind blows we will take the concrete proposal to the Minister and hope to be able to move a little further along that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210413	I must correct the rapporteur. This committee is much better at doing it late. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210422	Thank you. I just think I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very passionate rapporteur's speech. In addition, I would also like to support the rapporteur very much in relation to the rapporteur's observations on this in his motion for a resolution, because I do agree with the rapporteur that it would be nice if a number of the resolutions we are debating in this Chamber could actually be something that could be brought together by a majority in advance. I know that in connection with an earlier proposal, the rapporteur of the Left also had some considerations that it would be nice if, before coming to the Chamber, it had been accepted elsewhere. Then there was the fact that this was not SF's best world or anything like that, and in view of the motion for a resolution, I would really like to hear what SF's best world picture would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210523	It would be a world that I hope we will live in a day when we are no longer in doubt about what the pesticides we use in our agricultural sector, together with other chemical substances in our surroundings, do to ourselves, our children, when they are born, when they get into puberty, do to some of the basics of being human, our reproductive capacity. I hope that at some point we have found some common solutions for so that we produce food in a way that we do not see an increase in some of these cases that we do in relation to carcinogenic substances, reprotoxic, endocrine disrupters, etc. So that's one of them. I have many dreams that I could entertain, sir. Carsten Bach with a long time, but right in this area, I'd say it's one of them, but this could be one step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210629	Does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen not think that the SF's ideal world picture can be achieved through cooperation within the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210646	The European Union is, after all, a political battleground like the Folketing, and one might also ask: does the SF's rapporteur believe that the SF's dream society could be achieved in the Assembly Hall? Perhaps not, probably not, as the composition is today, either in Denmark or at EU level, but it is also one of the exciting things about a democracy. If you are to wear the jahat, opinions can be broken, and we can try to convince each other, at least in the best of all worlds, and sometimes be convinced of new things, new ways of doing so, vote in favour of each other's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210722	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210742	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426210750	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to Enhedslisten for tabling a motion for a resolution with the opportunity to discuss the development of ecology in Denmark. I must say at the outset that there can be no doubt that this government wants agriculture. That is why we have already reached a good and comprehensive agreement on a food and agricultural package. The initiatives in the food and agriculture package together contribute just over 1 billion. kr. in structural GDP and a boost in environmental status in 2021. Of course, that agreement also includes several initiatives to develop a competitive and market-driven ecology sector. Compared to the resolution itself: The Enhedslisten proposes that the Danish Parliament instruct the government to maintain the ecological objective of doubling the ecological area by 2020 compared to 2007. The government cannot support this, and there are several reasons for this. The government does not believe that it is the way forward to re-establish a quantitative target for the organic area. That is why we announced in October last year that we would no longer maintain the quantitative objective. Instead, we believe that the ecological sector in the long run is best served by being market driven. Therefore, a quantitative objective does not make sense. We will have the ecological area that the market requires. Conversion to organic production is a process that typically takes 2 years before you are fully in business and can start marketing organic products. That is why organic farming must be developed through real initiatives which strengthen the individual farmer's belief that organic products will also be marketed in the years to come. Together with our partners in the food and agriculture package, we strengthen the competitiveness of ecology by removing barriers to the whole market chain and focusing on fair production conditions, new research and increased sales and exports. Specifically, we are allocating 90 million. kr. during the period 2016-2018 to help farmers who think about converting their production into ecology, to have a reconversion check of their holdings and to strengthen the continued market security by promoting domestic sales and exports. In addition, in the period 2017-2020, we have allocated more than 1 billion. kr. for organic area subsidies and conversion grants. It could finance approximately 218,000 hectares, and if there were to be a larger search, we have agreed to prioritize additional funds corresponding to Aarhus University's so-called optimistic estimate of the development of the ecological area of 234,500 hectares. Thus, the government has assigned funding to a larger ecological area than ever before. To strengthen the organic sector in the slightly longer term, we are setting up an ecological business team with resources from the industry, which will make concrete recommendations before the end of this year on how competitive and market-driven organic growth can be supported in the areas of marketing, exports, raw materials and innovation. It will therefore be a work that takes place in 2016, but continues into the first quarter of 2017. In addition, we carry out a neighboring check on how ecological rules have been implemented in other EU countries. Among other things: our organic fruit and berry production is poor and does not develop in line with market demand. For example: Danish organic apples are sold out in just a few weeks, which is why we are looking at the framework conditions in the other countries. Several important productions, such as: fruit and berries, greenhouse vegetables and beekeeping do not take up much area compared with e.g. organic milk production, where there must be large grasslands for the animals. Therefore, with a single objective of a given number of hectares, there is a risk of not supporting or, at worst, giving priority to important organic productions, which are not very land-intensive, and the government therefore rejects the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211143	We have a few brief comments to make. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211147	Thank you. Now it's 11-12 minutes past 9, and you can get to this before the 9.30-TV newspaper, if you have any more news you want to get rid of. So I would like to test the scope of the Minister's determination to have cancelled this ecological objective. In other words, can the Minister not at all imagine that there will be an ecological objective with a similar level of ambition in the Minister's time of ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211220	Thank you for the question. The answer to that is very clear: No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211231	Okay. So that means that the Minister believes that with a Left Government there will never be an ecological objective similar to that which the Left itself introduced in 2007? I can hear that it is easy to confirm, so there has to be a supplementary question, and it is then stated: when the Minister for TV MIDTVEST and elsewhere says in a press release that it is a big decision to convert to ecology and that it requires a great deal of security, etc., then the Minister does not think on that basis and also for the sake of the profession that is currently looking for a change in the organisation and the dairy farmers earn money on it etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211310	I have to correct the first conclusion of the Socialist rapporteur. I did not say that no such objective could ever come from a Left Government. I said that during my ministerial period there will not be an objective for a particular ecological area, and that is why it makes no sense to be area-focused. But it makes sense to support the change, and that is what the government wants to do. That is what we have signalled with the food and agriculture package, and that is what we have signalled with the growth team for the industry that we have now set up and which must make recommendations on how to make a market-driven ecological change. For what is the whole hop in this is precisely that if consumers do not buy the goods that are produced, then we can have quite a lot of initiatives without it being of any use. That is why the government is concerned about promoting the export part and having a market-driven ecological change.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211357	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211401	I would like to follow this up a little, because now it was a Left Government that introduced this ecological objective in 2009 and it has been a very great success. The business has been extremely happy with this goal. Mrs Karen Hækkerup, Director of Agriculture & Food, has said that it has sent a positive signal to farmers who are considering conversion and that it has acted as a pointer. What is it in the Left's conviction that is so important that we should put an end to something that has been a great success, something that the profession has been happy about and which they are now mourning has disappeared? Why is it that priority is chosen by the Left and will there be another type of objective that the industry can then point out when they cannot achieve the ecological objective that they so much want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211452	That's a little comical to hear. Now Enhedslisten's rapporteur is always very bloomy in his language, but actually lament the loss of an objective! In other words, an objective is not an end in itself. It is an objective if you can put action behind words and therefore the government has set aside a very, very large amount of money to support land conversion. In addition, we have sent out a clear signal that we want to give priority to market-driven ecological development, and that is what we are doing. That is what matters. The crucial thing is not to have an objective if you cannot achieve it, and I think everyone in the industry can understand that. It is not because we set a target in 2010 that we have now made significant progress. That is because there has been a market to market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211534	I assume the Minister has discovered that it is a single profession, which is very, very regrettable that an objective which the profession has been very pleased to have been there has been abandoned because it has been a point of reference and because it has helped to support the change that has taken place. That's what they say. This is what Agriculture & Food points to. So it's the industry that's grieving that this goal no longer exists. But now that the profession is looking for political goals, so there are some pointers that they can relate to and point out, will there be another type of ecological objective when that is what the profession wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211615	Yes, there is the objective that there is money for all the organic farmers who want to change. There is the objective of helping to create a market. There is the objective that, through research and innovation, we will ensure that organic production can be renewed. And unlike other parties in this Things, we put action behind it by funding it too. That is why the profession does not have to mourn anything, because the government has sent a very clear signal of what we want. But we do not want quantitative targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211645	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211648	The Minister expresses concern that the setting of such an area target could distort the ecological sector, which has a small area. When we hear that the industry is actually interested in having such a target framework, one might imagine that it will be placed on the market share instead of or on another objective, which will ensure that we get a momentum, and that if there is a delay in the market, there will be additional means of ensuring that we achieve a target, for example. in economic, market share?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211726	I am actually a little moved by the fact that both the Alternative and Enhedslisten are so concerned with what Agriculture & Food recommends, because this has been a bit tricky in recent months. But it's nice that it can be done in this field. No, we are not concerned with quantitative targets. We are not concerned with area targets. We are concerned that what is organic production is being promoted because we like ecology. We put action behind this, among other things. to support the industry in being able to restructure, by creating market access, etc., and by, for example, I. set up a business team to make recommendations to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211801	We thank the Minister. We shall then proceed with the rapporteur's line, and that is first, Mr President. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426211812	Back in 2009, the Left and Conservative government formed together. At that time the two parties had 64 seats. Today, the Left and the Conservatives together have 40 seats. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is a testimony to the fact that during the period it is not just the number of the two parties' mandates that has fallen • the green ambitions have unfortunately fallen in line with the mandates. In 2009, the VK government introduced a goal that by 2020 Denmark would double the ecological area compared to 2007 • a quite ambitious objective that we could be proud of. Unfortunately, after the 2015 parliamentary elections, it would not be many months before the then Minister for the Environment and Food, Eva Kjer Hansen, threw overboard the objective that the Left itself introduced in 2009. Thus the government sent a clear signal: the days when the Left had goals for ecology were numbered and the green ambitions had disappeared. The resolution we are debating here today has been tabled by the Enhedslisten, and with the proposal, Enhedslisten, in its simplicity, wishes to re-introduce the objective of doubling the ecological area by 2020 compared to 2007. And let me just say straight away that this is something that the Socialists support. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament wants a wide range of agriculture, where there is room for both conventional farming and where we are making a great effort to promote ecology and boost the conversion to organic farming. From an environmental point of view, from a natural point of view, from an animal welfare point of view, ecology is a real gain. The ecological demand is high • the dairy farmers earn good money • so also financially it is a good gain. This is why it is important to have an ambitious objective which can be used as a lever for the expansion of the ecological area and which, at the same time, sends a very clear signal to Danish farmers: Denmark wants the ecology. After all, the industry expects an annual increase in exports of 10%. More organic products are bought than ever before, and we must be able to meet growing demand and exploit growth potential. That is why we need ambitious objectives. When the Social Democrats were in government, we adopted an ecological plan for the whole of Denmark in an attempt to achieve the objective. Unfortunately, the government has taken hold of large parts of the plan and is well in the process of burying it alongside the objective of doubling the ecological area. This is a pity, especially in view of the fact that Agriculture & Food, which has been highlighted here in the debate, actually believes that the objective is realistic. It simply does not make sense to me that in this case the government will not listen to the profession. For me, it seems that the government just doesn't want green initiatives, whether the industry is involved or not. I'll never understand that logic. I really see such a win-win situation in this, and when such situations arise, I think they should be exploited. When even the Danish People's Party wonders that the government cancelled the green ecological objective, this should give rise to additional consideration by the government. My hope is that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur is the next one in the series that the Danish People's Party will stand firm on the concern and amazement that the government will relax its ambition level. I remember that the former rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said was quite unnecessary. So, against this background, the Socialists can support the resolution and we hope that the Folketing will stand together to bring the objective back on the table, so that Denmark can continue to pull the green lead shirt and be a dominant factor in the organic market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212230	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212237	The Enhedslisten's proposal to reinstate the previous objective of doubling the ecological area by 2020 compared to 2007 is very sympathetic. In 2007, the ecological area was 150,000 hectares, so the target was an area of 300,000 hectares by 2020. Average increase per year Years should then be 11,540 ha. In 2014, the organic area was 176,000 hectares, i.e. an average increase per hectare. 3,714 ha. Why am I bringing all these numbers? Yes, I do so in order to make it clear that although there is a stated objective, it is not what causes farmers to convert to ecology. This, on the other hand, is a market-driven development which the parties to the agricultural package have taken seriously, with measures such as new research, fair production conditions, increased sales and export promotion. Furthermore, we are still giving priority to an increase in the ecological area of 5,500 hectares per year from 2017 to 2020, with the possibility of additional funding being provided if there is a greater demand. Aarhus University has estimated the ecological area by 2020 to be 234,500 hectares, and it can be honoured if there is a demand for it, and I hope there will be. So with the initiatives from the agricultural package, DF is quite confident that positive developments are maintained and therefore we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal. I would like to conclude by saying that Enhedslisten's rapporteur referred to an article with Karen Hækkerup from Agriculture & Food stating that they were sad at that time. Finally, in the article which I have also read, it says that whether there is an objective for the ecological area or not, they go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212451	Thank you to the rapporteur and we have a few brief comments to make. First, it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212458	Well, the profession says this is actually working. So I do not think that Mrs Lise Bech can say it does not work and that she necessarily knows it better than Agriculture & Food, Organic Landsforening and all the other associations. When this goal was dropped, the Danish People's Party was very critical and incomprehensible about it. They thought it was strange. And even if you do not seem to be achieving the objective you really wanted to achieve, then you are going the wrong way by abandoning the objective when it is moving in the wrong direction or at risk of going in the wrong direction. I do not understand that argument at all. So now that the Danish People's Party is annoyed that the objective has been dropped and perhaps here there is an opportunity to collect a majority in order to maintain it, I do not understand that you do not use that option if you actually think that the objective was right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212557	The objective was a little fluffy, because it was not funded. With what we have done with the agricultural package, it is financed. And if there is a greater need, we also have money for it. We have money for what Aarhus University has assessed in relation to the area we have in 2020. This will mean that every year from 2015 we will have more than 15 000 hectares. And we can hope for that, but let's see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212635	But if there are farmers who want to change, they do not get a 'no' and then they have to find the funding. The question is whether we want to send out the signal to farmers politically that we want ecological change. Because ecologists are doing very well financially. There is increasing demand in Denmark, there is increasing demand abroad, exports are growing rapidly and have been so for years. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we want more agricultural production and that is why we are maintaining ambitious ecological targets. So when the Danish People's Party, when the government drops its goal, complains about it, wonders about it and thinks it is strange, and you may now have the opportunity to maintain it, why not take advantage of that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212724	We want ecological change, and we also think that we have taken account of it with the agricultural package that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212735	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212737	I also wonder about the DF's rapporteur when they say that this is a pity and now they say that this is not a problem. One obviously does not care about the protests that have come from the industry, which say: some of what is important to us is actually predictability. It's knowing what you politicians want, also a while ahead. That's what we often hear from the industry. They say you can adopt one thing or the other, but what is hardest for us to act on is zigzag course. So if you just agree that this is the path we're going to go, we can better conform to it. Agriculture & Food, which we otherwise also discuss in all sorts of other respects, says: this is actually a great success, it is part of what we are doing. And, of course, the DF's rapporteur can speak out of it, but the fact is that they have said that it is really, really a pity that this objective has been abandoned. And it's easier to go in a direction if you know where to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212842	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212843	We certainly care. We think we have something that is realistic. And that's the difference. That one with plus 150,000 hectares wasn't funded, and we've done that with this. The questioner may say that the industry is sorry about this, but on the other hand they also say: we just keep going. And everyone can get a change check.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212913	As my fellow Members have also mentioned, it is, after all, a question of political will. And if the Left Government maintained the ambition that had already been achieved once, I do not think we would have said that it would be better to abandon an objective than not to achieve it entirely. For then the industry also knows what we want, namely that there is • and that there is clear evidence of space for conventional farming, but that part of it is also organic. So this is a question of political will, and then it is just saying that you choose not to spend the money on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426212959	I would like to point out that we have speaking time in here. And I'm relatively large, but it's getting more and more, so we're trying to keep them. Now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213009	Thank you. We are part of this agricultural package, and what we have done is that we have something that is realistic. And we are pleased that there is a positive development in ecology in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213023	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup. I think I told you it was Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup, but Mr. Christian Poll will be here right after. We'll just take Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213037	I was scared to hear my own voice without opening my mouth, but don't worry about it. I would like to ask a few questions about the fact that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, the rapporteur on finance and, at this point, the rapporteur on agriculture, indeed, when the present government actually threw away this ecological objective, was out to say, and I quote: we can agree with the government that it is difficult to achieve the objective, but that is why we do not need to relax the level of ambition. We often ask back this way over some parliamentary term what has changed over these parliamentary terms, but here we have just a few months to go. What has changed in the policy of the Danish People's Party since it is now felt that it is quite okay to relax the level of ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213123	There's not so much that's changed. Everyone is allowed to wonder when there's a report you might not have just expected. That does not mean that we are not realistic and say: all right, this is what is realistic; that is what we can get out of the agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213141	However, as far as I remember the agricultural package, to which reference is now being made, there are no restrictions on not having a political ambition alongside it. And the Folketing actually serves this opportunity to the Danish People's Party on a silver platter. You can just say that you want an ambition for ecology, and then you get it because you can decide the majority here on things tonight. So perhaps I could turn it around and then ask my question a little reverse: what would quite frankly happen by introducing this ambition again? Why are people concerned about doing so in the Danish People's Party? What will happen by doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213221-2	We're not worried at all. There is just no need to have an objective that is not realistic and funded. Nor does it seem to be needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213238	Then Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213240	Thank you. Well, first there's this thing about setting a target. I believe that the rapporteur mentioned that it is up to the farmer to react if the target is not achieved or does not seem to be achieved. I'm thinking that's not how it works. The idea of an objective is, of course, that the government should react if it does not seem to achieve an objective, so that new instruments can be put in place that will enable us to achieve the objective. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of this effort that Coop made last year. After all, there was a lack of even greater demand and made a wager and, by the way, it increased demand even more. Well, the interaction between supply and demand, you can actually go in and work with, and Coop did that in this context. Does the rapporteur not know about that case and does he not think that it reflects very well how to actually go in and stimulate the market if needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213352	Well, these aren't legos we're talking about here. It is farmers, and it is big business. It is not just something that is being changed, and people cannot be forced to change if that is not what they want. So it turns out that in the years that were objectives, it was not revised on average per year. years, as was calculated to be done up to 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213425	But then it is precisely that we hear the industry saying that what is needed is to know that there is a market and that there will be work to create an increased market in the long term, that is to say the stable framework conditions. And is that not precisely what an objective can do, that is to say, to ensure that we are going for a goal and that if it seems that we do not achieve it, then we are putting more things in place so that we are sure to achieve it? I guess you're just gonna have to change to ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213452	Well, it's kind of the customers who decide. That is what I mean by it being market driven. It is that if there are customers who want to buy organic products, there is a market, and there are also more who dare to believe that they can convert to ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213506	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213521	Thank you. In the Left, we are in favour of ecology. We see great opportunities in the organic market and, of course, opportunities must be exploited. In Denmark we produce lots of good organic products and demand is high. So in the Left we say yes to ecology at market conditions. It is the consumers who decide what to do in the shopping cart. More and more people are asking for ecology, which is why it is also important that we support organic producers in meeting changing needs. At the same time, we must say that much has happened in the Danish food sector over recent years. Most people know that Danish agriculture is highly challenged, and Danish agriculture does not need to be bound by a quantitative objective. Instead, we in the Left focus on removing barriers to both conventional and organic food production. There's enough to do. We have already been dragged into work with our food and agricultural package, and we will continue to work so that we can also have a strong food sector in the future. The time is not for airy goals for Danish ecologists. The time is for better framework conditions, which make a real difference to ecologists, and we are looking at removing barriers to organic production, for example by harmonising ecological rules. In the Left, we maintain the ambition to promote ecological change so that the ecological area and production can grow by 2020. Instead of sticking to certain figures for certain years, we focus on how to create the best framework for ecology. In view of these circumstances, we in the Left are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213706	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213711	I am just a little surprised that we have just heard from the Minister that there will never be an objective under this government. Agriculture & Food has indicated to the Committee on the Environment and Food that it is quite realistic to achieve the objective we are discussing this evening. There is good money to be made from ecology and ecological change. The profession is looking for an ambitious political objective. So can the rapporteur not imagine that there is something that could change the Left's mind? Or is it an independent value and an independent goal that there should never be an ecological objective from this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213755	Well, the ecologists just have to go for it. It was just now that the rapporteur said that the objective had to be achieved this evening. I would say that there is a great deal of speed and I do not think that the Director of Agriculture & Food has said that this could be achieved as early as tonight. That would have been amazing. But the ecologists just have to go to it, and the sooner they can do it, the finer and better it is. We can only welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213820	I'm sorry if I mumbled. It was my intention to say the objective we are discussing that I would like an answer to the question: is it an independent objective and an independent value for the Left that there should never be an ecological objective during this period of government, or could it be imagined that there was something? If the industry continues to ask for an objective to be achieved, for political pointers to be drawn up and for a part of the industry to be ambitious, could it be imagined that the Left could change its mind and want to set an ecological objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213857	Well, I have already indicated earlier, both in my previous answer and in my little rapporteur's speech, that the ecologists should just go to it. We are in favour of ecology, so it is the consumers who decide what to do in the shopping basket in the end. Unlike the Enhedslisten, which may perhaps want to decide a little what consumers should throw into the shopping basket, we in the Left think that there should be complete freedom to do so. So if that's that 20%. or more of the consumers think that more organic products are needed in the shopping cart, it is just going to go to it, and then we want to help remove the barriers so that you can drive out there. So we are not so close to a specific figure as to the possibilities in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213933	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426213934	Now it is not every day that a Social Democrat should come to the rescue of a rapporteur on the Enhedslisten, but I still think I have to say that it was in this way the Left itself that introduced this objective back in 2009. It's just straight, so it's settled. So it is not indefensible for the Left to embark on objectives. Nevertheless, we are told by the Left Minister that there will never be an ecological objective with Esben Lunde Larsen as Minister for the Environment and Food. Then perhaps the rapporteur of the Left can tell us a little about why there can never be a political objective. You've done it once before, but why has the Left been on that trail that you can never do it again?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214019	I have to say that the Minister is charged with title rather than name. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214024	As rapporteur for the Left in this area, I am concerned that opportunities are being given and we would like to help the ecologists to be able, so to speak, to go to it and to achieve the objective that was at some point and to achieve more if possible. We think it would be wrong for there to be just one fixed point on that. We can also take a look at the debate here, because then the debate suddenly goes on to say that there has to be a certain target figure. As rapporteur, I think it is much better for us to give the producers some opportunities in this situation, and then it is the consumers who decide what to do in the shopping basket. And the message from us in the Left is also to the ecologists: Just go to it, sell everything you can at market conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214109	I'll start by regretting it with the indictment of the Minister... I'll remember the correct indictment in here. What I am doing with the rapporteur is, of course, trying to learn a little bit more from this relatively harsh report that there can never be an ecological objective. The rapporteur also says that it is wrong to achieve an ecological objective. Now we put aside the fact that this is something that the Left has introduced in the past, and then we're just trying to figure out why it's wrong. I am in favour of market-driven development and so on, but I just have to understand why it is wrong to have an objective, as the Left has done before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214149	Whether or not this is a tough report, as the author says it is, must stand for the questioner's own account, because I have not really considered it. I also think I have tried to answer that in the previous question, but I should like to outline that answer briefly and clearly again: the ecologists should just go to it, they should sell everything they can, on market conditions, and in the Left we would like to help offer opportunities for them to meet it, and therefore we also have a focus on removing barriers, providing opportunities for change, etc., because this seems to us to be more important than focusing on a certain figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214226	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214231	I took the floor because the rapporteur has repeatedly used words such as market conditions and market driven, and these are, of course, good, liberal words. However, our agricultural sector is not a liberal industry which is totally unsupported or which is not supported politically. In other words, we support agriculture, because we have decided in the Folketing, with 10 billion. kr. If we were to remove them from one day to the next, there would probably be no farming. It may well be that we have a slightly different desire for what future agriculture should look like, but it is not the case that we do not have a political interest today in what we are getting for 10 billion. kr. a year. That is why I think it is a little out of place to talk about a market-driven development. If we want to have a supported farm, we spend the money on it. That's how we feel right now. If we want to support the ecology, and here we are not even talking about the economy, but about the objective that this is what we politically want, we should probably also decide politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214339-2	As far as agricultural aid is concerned, it is not only in Denmark and I think the questioner himself is fully aware of the fact that you have agricultural subsidies. It is, of course, throughout Europe and in many parts of the world that agricultural aid is available, and I would agree with the questioner that if one day to another one-sidedly removed aid in Denmark, it would have been the end of having a food sector. However, the European Union has taken steps towards this, and it is in the last EU agreement that we must gradually begin to reduce agricultural aid slightly, and there are various possibilities for restructuring. As far as the target percentages are concerned, there are no targets for precisely how many litres of milk or how many vegetables are to be produced in the various parts of agriculture. So you can say that there is naturally a difference between the approach to it in the SF and in the Left. I am Liberal and Liberal, so I think I want to help offer some opportunities for producing good, healthy quality food that meets the quality requirements that we have here in Denmark and, as it were, to the producers: just go to it and sell what can be sold at market conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214452	I simply do not understand the answer, also because I know that the rapporteur is one who knows about agriculture. We set targets for all possible numbers of pigs, hectares, how much area in Denmark should be under plough etc. etc. This is not a market-driven area, because if it was, we would not have any agriculture. We have supported Danish agriculture. The minister is shaking his head, but I think I know what would happen if we removed 10 billion from one day to the next. kr. In the case of agricultural aid, we certainly did not have an agriculture as we know it today. So it is not market driven, it is carried by political will, just as the ecological objective will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214533	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214534	I fully agree with what SF's overall objective is to reduce the food sector and agriculture in Denmark. This is quite clear from the facts. And that's where there's also just a marked difference in how we look at it in the Left and in the SF. That's the way it is. I am pleased that we have adopted an agricultural package which supports the industry in terms of jobs and everything else, and as far as the objective is concerned, I have replied earlier, and I can then refer to that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214600	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214607	Thank you very much. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for once again, a little late in the Chamber, for debating issues relating to our good Committee on the Environment and Food. In the Liberal Alliance we really want a large and strong organic production in Denmark. As I also said earlier today in connection with a motion for a resolution which I myself tabled, on the Law on Rivers, I sometimes use a modern tool when I look out into the world. It's a binoculars. When it is a modern binocular, there are two lenses, and the picture from the two lenses usually merges on my retina. It does, too, when I look at Danish agriculture, which I think can easily consist of both a conventional part and an organic part. I hope that it will continue to do so. In fact, I hope that the ecological part can be strengthened. However, in the Liberal Alliance, we do not want the kind of objective that is involved in this resolution. We want organic production to be increased through consumer-driven demand. Furthermore, as the rapporteur of the Left has just said, we do not want there to be a one-sided focus on the area, as is also the case in this motion for a resolution. When we talk about organic production, and it has also been mentioned a few times here, there is, in fact, a theoretical possibility that, with the developments that are already underway, we can actually achieve the targets that are being talked about. In the context of the food and agricultural package, as has also been mentioned several times, funds have also been set aside for the extension of the ecological area. If the funds initially allocated to it were to run out, channels have already been reserved for further support to develop the ecological area. So, with those words, I would say that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of consumer-driven ecology and we hope that the Danish ecological sector may even contribute more to our exports. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214855	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426214900	In other words, when we have looked at the gambling behaviour of the right in relation to this agricultural package, which was about meeting the wishes of the agricultural industry, it is really surprising that we are so reluctant to respond to the wishes of the industry when it comes to something as peaceful as an ecological objective. Agriculture itself says that the industry itself says that it is something that gives them a point of reference that it actually helps to support farmers' dare to jump into it. It takes a very long time to think about it, but a political objective helps them. And when there's such a good economy, the industry actually wants more people to have the courage to make this transition. After all, there is no contradiction between wanting a consumer-driven change and having a political objective. There is no contradiction there, so the rapporteur cannot put a few more words to it: why is it that you are so opposed to having a political objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215003	To refer to what I have already spoken about here today on the floor of other motions for resolutions, I would like to say that, as a parliamentary politician, I have no ambition to have an objective on behalf of consumers. I want any ecological change in agriculture to be consumer-driven and, if consumers are looking for organic products, they must, of course, have an opportunity to buy them. And it will then create a market for increased organic production in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215037	You look out in the real world and see that we have an ecological sector that really earns money there is really increased demand in Denmark and abroad and that we have a conventional pig sector that has had difficulty in earning money for years, and then we have a situation where there are wishes from both sides: the ecologists want an ecological objective, and the industry wants what was in the agricultural package. And then you make every effort to help the profession that seems to have the most difficult and where there is the least future, instead of meeting the other branch as well. I simply do not understand that approach to Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215114	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215114-2	Thank you. In fact, I also think, as I explained very briefly in my rapporteur's speech, that the initiatives in the food and agriculture package also take account of ecology and the strengthening of organic production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215135	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215159	The alternative has a goal that Denmark should produce 100 per cent. organic in 2040. And that is a long-term objective, which we believe must be taken into account to achieve quite broadly and with a number of different efforts. It is natural for us to work according to objectives. We believe that the good way to conduct policy is to set targets and then constantly adjust what means are needed to achieve your objectives. That's how you come to terms with the goals you set yourself. And that is precisely why we support the Enhedslisten's proposal here. If we're gonna make it to 100%. We must, of course, set ourselves some milestones in 2040, and this is an appropriate minimum target, I would say, which will ensure that if we see a delay in the market because right now things are going very well for ecology, but we can, for example, do well for ecology. In a few years' time or at a later stage see a delay in the market. It is important that we then have a goal and go in and adjust the means needed to achieve the goal. That is what we think is the idea of an objective, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215318	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215325	After all, the food and agricultural industry is an extremely important industry for Denmark. We have some incredibly talented farmers and some incredibly talented food industry companies. Everyone knows that there are quite major challenges in earning money, in paying back a very, very large debt that has been built up over the bubble, the financial crisis. In the Radical Left, we think it would have been wise to use this food and agricultural package, which lasts 4 to 5 years, to move the agricultural and food industry to where it can again be economically sustainable but also sustainable in terms of the environment and climate. The parties behind the agricultural and food package will of course say: yes, that is exactly what we have done. But what has been done is to shoot out the environmental and climate bill three years into the future, because what is at stake is that this massive agricultural aid, which agriculture gets, is 50 billion. kr. for the next five years, is tied up to a requirement that one must protect the environment, nature and climate more for every day that goes by. So what you've actually done is just shoot the bill out in the future. It is called targeted regulation, but it will be Denmark's biggest environmental and climate action against agriculture. No one has understood that yet. That is why we think it would have been wise, for example. to focus more on ecology in this food and agricultural package, which is trying to shift agriculture to some forms of production that generate more income. We can see that the market is exploding, demand is exploding, so it would have been wise to spend money on moving agriculture more towards ecology. In addition, it pollutes less to meet the objectives and demands of the massive state aid from the European Union. That is why we think it would have been a good idea to maintain this objective. In the debate here, an objective is set against the fact that it must be market driven, but what the Radical Left was involved in in government was to support precisely the market-driven development of ecology. It was precisely not coercive, but it was to provide subsidies for research, development, market development and all sorts of other measures that made this happen on market conditions, and then, yes, a lot of support for those farmers who want to convert to this form of production. That is why, of course, we support the Enhedslisten proposal. That is our policy in the negotiations we have been through, but also when we were in government, and we are, of course, standing by that. We will vote in favour of our own policy even when it is presented by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215627	Thank you to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426215645	Sometimes politics is a very concrete thing, and sometimes it is dreams, visions and objectives, and both must be there, and it has to go on two legs, and everyone has objectives. It may be a goal to make it cheaper to be a Dane, to have more pigs in Danish agriculture, to double the ecological area, to get virtually all young people to take a youth education. All parties in here have objectives, and of course we should also follow it up with some political will and some funding. But first of all, an objective is a tool to show that this is the path one wants to take. This is what you show those who are outside Christiansborg, that is, all the stakeholders, the profession and the organisations, and that this is something that you want politically, and then you create some framework conditions, some predictability and some stability, and that is what a lot of people are asking for. That is why it was really, really a pity that the government removed its own ecological objective, especially when it is in an area where Denmark has a position of strength, where we make money, an area that is growing and which, at the same time, helps to achieve some of the other objectives that we have in the field of nature, in the environment, in the area of climate change and in the field of animal welfare. I have heard several people, in particular the rapporteur of the Left, say up here that everything must be driven by market-driven developments. It has to be said that we have a state-owned agriculture in Denmark because we have decided that we want it because we think it is important. Then we have some political differences in terms of how it should be regulated, how it should look, how much ecology there should be and how much pollution it seems acceptable, but there is not a single party in here who has said that tomorrow there should not be a single state-owned crown for agriculture, because then we would not have a Danish farm. So everyone agrees to support it because it is important for us to have food production and therefore it makes no sense to talk about market development. The bizarre thing is that it is precisely in the area of ecology that there has been market development. There has been a market-driven development and consumers have asked for it, but they have done so because there has been some calmness about it because there has been an objective and because for a number of years there has been a relatively broad support from the Danish Parliament that this is a road we would like to go. It may be that some of us would like to go a little further, but it is certainly a road we would like to go, and that is also what provides security for the industry and for the organisations that say: it is actually nice that you can show a direction, because a zigzag course is one of the hardest things for us to deal with. So that is SF's policy, and that is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220002	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220018	We shall vote against the proposal. We really have a great deal of sympathy for this ecological objective, and I myself have also expressed a positive view of maintaining it, I think it was in the autumn when it emerged that the government intended to drop down on this area, and if it stood alone for us, we would probably also want to be in favour of maintaining this objective. But we may feel that this will be a bit of a torpedoing of the cooperation we have, and we have created an agricultural package which provides a framework for what to do with ecology in Denmark, and that is why we are going to vote against this proposal. So it is really most in order to be able to stand by the agreements we have made in this area, and that is what you have to do, but otherwise we actually think that we would like to have something more ecology, just as the proposers here want, and we have a great deal of sympathy for it. We also think it is important for nature in Denmark that there is less intensive cultivation and that it is healthy. It is particularly healthy if it can be a little mixed around the country, and yes, there are really only good things to say about it. It should also be said that there are some initiatives on the way. There are also some things in the agricultural package that make it possible to convert to ecology, and we will continue to work to ensure that there is more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220151	There are a few brief comments. It's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220156	I understand the Conservative People's Party as a party that wants both agriculture, but also nature, the environment and biodiversity. In fact, it is so amazing that, when we talk about organic production, it is much more important than when we talk about industrial and more intensive production or what you would call conventional production. I also understand from the rapporteur that there is really a very positive attitude towards the proposal. I cannot really understand why it should be part of the agricultural package. In the case of the agricultural package, has an agreement been made in the blue block to prohibit each other from voting in favour of progressive proposals for an ecological objective which does not in itself cost money? Or how exactly is it that you connect this to the agricultural package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220247	No, we haven't. Technically and legally, there is nothing wrong with us being able to vote in favour of this objective, but objectives must also be committed. If they are to be worth something, they must also be followed by some action. And this is going to be a pretty violent thing, I think, all of a sudden to vote through, and it will also require some initiatives to advance the objective, because otherwise it will just blink, and then you will slowly discover that you cannot reach it, and then it is not worth so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220324	However, as the rapporteur also mentioned, there is indeed action in the agricultural package. Agriculture & Food says that it looks as if this objective is actually realistic, and that is precisely why they think it is so incredibly unfortunate that it is not politically held up to send the clear signal to those farmers who are thinking about changing production, to say: we are still seriously concerned that we actually want a lot more ecology in Denmark. So the reflections on action, as the rapporteur points out, are there in this way. The business is looking for this. Could it not then be reconsidered, because you have the opportunity to vote this through?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220406	I am pleased that Agriculture & Food still sees it as realistic to achieve this objective, and we will also work for it in the future. But then it can be said that if this does not lead to us also doing any action, it does not matter if we vote it through. So, goals in themselves do not make anyone feel better. I can only say that, when we are debating agricultural policy, we will also work to ensure that there is more ecology. But we think it would be too much to vote this objective through here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220441	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220444	Thank you. I took note of the remark that if it were for the Conservatives alone, it would be in favour of achieving the objective. In fact, it is for the Conservatives alone. The Conservatives can decide the majority in this case. I am not under any illusion that we can then have the pleasure of a manure gate or the like again. I don't think this case is at all • but I know that it is very important for the demand for organic products, which are increasing, and for land conversions etc. I just do not see that the rapporteur has to explain to me what it is in the agricultural package or in the conciliation text that makes it impossible to set an ambitious political objective as well as Parliament next to the package. As far as I am aware, there are funds in the agricultural package which must also be implemented along the way and which can support the objective. There are some rubber bands in the deal made so you can support it. So I do not understand the horror of doing what the rapporteur started talking about, namely that if it stood for the Conservatives alone, it could be done because it can be
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220547	Well, I would say that technically and in terms of the distribution of seats here in the Folketing, it is true that we could vote it through. Nor is it the case that we have promised anyone not to vote through it or have made any agreement on it. As I said, however, we think that we have left some ground for the agricultural policy. There are some measures to promote ecology, and that is what we are holding onto. So to make an additional objective would be a bit of a torpedoing of the common agricultural policy that we have tried to do. So, of course, that's a consideration you can have. We could do so, but we choose not to do so to ensure that we do not torpedo the policy we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220638	I think it is a pity if the Conservative People's Party is becoming afraid of its own shadow on top of this environmental agenda, which has been interesting to follow, and where the Conservative People's Party has also put some fingerprints on both the debate, but also on the results. I just have to understand that agricultural policy is now a protected area for the Conservative People's Party, in other words that we can now only follow the Left in the context of agricultural policy and do nothing about it. I am just asking because there is also a debate on nitrogen reduction measures where the Conservative People's Party has been flirting with doing something around the government. But now you have to understand that, too, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220721	No, not at all. The discussion we have about nitrogen has nothing to do with this discussion. And, of course, it is not the case that we deposit our agricultural policy with other parties. But, on the other hand, you don't make big deals and then go out and do a whole lot of things that run counter to the settlements that you have entered into. I also believe that the Socialists are aware that this is not the case. But we have an independent agricultural policy and it's a little greener than the rest of the blue block's... it's no secret... but it's probably not as green as you might wish it to be so much further to the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220802	Then we'll move on, and that's Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220806	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There was just one thing I noticed. It was that the rapporteur mentioned that if this proposal is voted through, it will probably give more nature. Does the rapporteur think that a change to ecology will bring more nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220827	We think so. In any case, it will cause less natural stress, you might say. I don't think you can count an organic field in itself as nature. I guess you can't say that. As far as the aquatic environment is concerned, as we know, ecology is better than conventional agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220848	Thank you for that investigation. Perhaps the rapporteur felt that this is more of an environmental impact. I would also like to welcome the fact that the Conservative People's Party has now chosen to stick to the initiatives of the food and agriculture package. However, I would like the Conservative rapporteur to clarify that he regards the Conservative People's Party's agricultural policy as more green than the rest of the blue blocs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426220927	After all, it is a gift to be allowed to elaborate on it and to stand and tell about how good your own policy is. We are, after all, a party which, in the course of the agricultural negotiations in December, naturally drew in the direction of environmental considerations being taken into account. We are not a party that is trying to bother agriculture, nor will we be able to point out, despite what has been said about us, a single initiative that we have voted through this past year which has been detrimental to agriculture. But we are concerned that we also take account of the environment, and we would also like to spend some money on it when necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426221005	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426221011	Thank you. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for the consideration of the Enhedslisten's proposal to maintain the ecological objective that the Left Government dropped in the autumn, despite the fact that it was in fact a Left Government that introduced the objective at the time, because it was thought at that time that it was really important. In the meantime, it has certainly been observed that there is something that is a brave success in Danish agriculture, it is ecology. It is going very, very well for organic farmers across a broad spectrum. The economy is sensible. There are generally black figures on the bottom line also for organic pig producers, whereas their conventional colleagues have a frightening difficulty in making money and have been having a really hard time for many years. The sale of organic food keeps breaking record year after year. The Danes are among those who spend the most money on ecology, and Denmark is the country in the world where the share of organic food sold in the retail trade is largest. The same also applies to foreign countries, where the demand for organic food is growing explosively. All over the world there is an increasing desire to have food produced without spray toxins and with greater respect for both animal welfare and nature. Then I would like to address a question from Mr. Carsten Bach to the previous rapporteur on nature and biodiversity in relation to ecology. I would like to mention that there is a study which shows that there is 30%. more wild plant and animal species in organically cultivated fields than in non-organically cultivated fields. So there is, in fact, a link between nature and biodiversity and ecology, which is relevant if that is the interaction one is interested in. There is no doubt that the ecology is the golden eggs of Danish agriculture, and that is also where we find the key to future agriculture. It is an agriculture that can exist within the framework and limits that our nature and environment impose in Denmark, where the environment is more vulnerable to nitrogen pollution, where nature is more vulnerable and where we therefore need to have more restrictive environmental regulation if there is also room for both nature and a clean environment. Fortunately, there are very many farmers who have realised that ecology is the way forward and are in the process of converting to future organic production. There is a massive increase in the number of farmers applying to be allowed to receive ecological subsidies so that they can get on with the restructuring. A little in contrast to the very great success of ecology, there is another branch of activity in Danish agriculture. It's conventional pig production. It is a branch of activity which for years has had very, very difficult to make money. There are red numbers on the bottom line for a great many producers, and production is associated with a large number of problems that throw really high costs onto the rest of society, including the costs associated with the increasing number of antibiotic-resistant bacteria that are infecting people; also people who have never been in a pig stall. It is also the pollution from the piggy that pollutes watercourses, nature and the marine environment. I think it is really a pity that this government has drawn up and adopted an agricultural package which has as one of the key objectives of increasing the production of conventional pigs. This is done by raising the harmonization requirement, by repealing a number of environmental rules so that yields can rise in the farmer's fields, and then it is also believed that the grain can be better suited for animal feed. At the same time, an ambitious ecological target has been dropped, despite the fact that this is where we find the best economy, despite the fact that it is here that demand, both nationally and internationally, is in very, very strong growth. There is therefore no doubt at all as to which branch of production the government is most committed to helping and developing. It is a pig production which does not earn money and whose jobs are increasingly disappearing from the country. That is because it is better to send live pigs south of the border where wages are lower. It is also a production that is very difficult to reconcile with the high environmental requirements that we have to have in Denmark because, as I mentioned, both our nature and our aquatic environment are more vulnerable than in other countries. The agricultural organizations too are puzzled by the priorities of the government and the right in this matter. As I almost sensed that the Minister was cheerful about it, it is not every day that I admit that Enhedslisten stands shoulder to shoulder with Agriculture & Food in one matter, but we are actually doing so here. As the Director, Mrs Karen Hækkerup, has said, it is important to maintain ambitious ecological targets because it sends a positive signal to those farmers who are considering restructuring. I now quote the director, Mrs Karen Hækkerup: "To have an ambitious goal for organic production has helped drive the ecology forward and create ecological growth'. It has therefore been the high Danish ecological targets that have helped to ensure that we in Denmark are much more advanced on this agenda than in other countries, and that we also manage to increase exports of organic products year after year. I am very pleased with the treatment that has been done today, even though I think it is a pity that, for example, we have not been able to do so. The Conservative People's Party does not support the proposal, despite the fact that it is very much in agreement and very sympathetic to the proposal. I am, of course, very pleased that the Socialists, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative support the proposal. It gives hope that ecological objectives can be re-introduced in Danish agricultural policy if we have a change of government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426221657	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426221708	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426221726	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for highlighting microplastics with this resolution. The presence of microplastics in the environment is a problem we cannot ignore. This has recently been referred to as a major environmental problem, among other things. in the form of wear from car tyres, paint, ship paint and road stripes. And that may be for good reason. The first part of the proposal concerns the introduction of a ban on products that have been added to microplastics, what is called primary microplastics. As far as I understand the proposal, it is mainly the use in care products and the use in artificial lawns that the proposer is aiming at. This type of microplastic is about 11 per cent. of the total releases to the environment of microplastics, but it is less than 1%. of what ends up in the aquatic environment. The use of microplastics in care products contributes little to discharge to the aquatic environment. Our calculations show that it is down to 0.1%, and the cosmetics industry is already phasing out its use in cosmetics throughout the EU. Having said that, I agree with the proposer that microplastics should not be used where there is no good reason for doing so. That is why I have just asked the Commission to draw up a proposal for a ban on microplastics in cosmetic products. The vast majority of products that can be purchased in Denmark are produced outside the country's borders, and therefore an effort aimed at products containing or capable of releasing microplastics should be made at EU level. Of the 11% that primary microplastics make up of the total release to the environment, rubber granules are the largest source. It comes, among other things. from artificial grass fields, where the granules from the track go out to the adjacent areas. Here it can pose a local environmental problem, while only a small part is released to the aquatic environment. The rubber granules are made from discarded car tyres, and therefore the use for artificial grass lawns and the like reduces the amount of wasted tyres that would otherwise have to be deposited or burned. The government is taking care of the problem of rubber granules. We are in the process of preparing a guide on how to handle artificial lawns from being built until they turn into garbage. The problem of limiting the spread of microplastics is covered by this guide. With regard to the second part of the proposal, which aims to prevent the proliferation of secondary microplastics, i.e. microplastics produced by wearing out of products, we are also in the process of doing so. Secondary microplastics account for 89 per cent. of the microplastic released to the environment, but probably more than 99%. of the microplastics entering the aquatic environment from land. We have launched initiatives to find out how microplastics find their way to the aquatic environment and how it can be cleaned most effectively. This concerns, among other things: examining which existing cleaning methods best clean up microplastics and also attempts to develop new technologies to improve cleaning. In addition, a study has been launched on the amount of microplastics added to purification plants, the type and origin of plastics. The study also looks at what happens to microplastics in the treatment plant and where it gets off if it spreads with the sludge on the farmland. Before we have a thorough knowledge of where the microplastic comes from and where it goes, I think it is too early to think in a general strategy for limiting the spread of microplastics. We also do not know which methods are best at measuring microplastics in water, so for that reason alone it is too early to plan a possible measuring programme for microplastics in effluents from wastewater treatment plants. The spread of microplastics in the aquatic environment is a cross-border problem which cannot be solved in Denmark alone. Probably large parts of the microplastic that we find in the oceans stem from the degradation of larger pieces of plastic waste that is scattered in the oceans. Therefore, Denmark works with neighbouring countries, among others. Within the framework of the regional marine conventions for the North Sea, the Atlantic and the Baltic Sea to limit marine waste. The European Commission has announced that as part of their action plan for the circular economy, they will draw up a plastic strategy in 2017. The strategy must take into account the problems caused by plastics throughout the life cycle of the plastic. From the Danish side, of course, we will contribute to the development of the strategy, and we are working to ensure that the strategy includes initiatives to reduce pollution by microplastics. In this context, it might be obvious to discuss whether standards for the release of microplastics from products or materials could be developed. There is no point in national initiatives here, because most products are produced for the European market or for the global market. I assume that we will go into this in greater depth when we deal with motion for a resolution B-94 on effective action against plastic pollution, which is precisely about preventing the spread of plastic and hence microplastics in nature. So we are already well in the process of making sensible efforts in those areas where we know enough to act now and, for example, in those areas where we know enough to act now. use of microplastics in cosmetics, we do that. In areas where a great deal of knowledge is still lacking, we are launching studies and technology development. I think it is important to take action at the right level, and when it comes to cross-border issues and restricting the opportunities for the sale of products, that is, within the framework of the European Union. That is why the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222309	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222313	Thank you. I sensed from the Minister that we are in agreement that this is a very serious problem. There's a lot of plastic in our environment, in our nature. There's regular talk of this huge island of plastic floating around the oceans. It is really unpleasant to read articles about microplastics in the fish we eat, which can even bind dangerous substances. There are microplastics in honey and all sorts of other things. The United States has actually managed to ban it in one place. I agree with the Minister that it is limited, but could the Minister not be prepared that if we do not succeed within the EU, we will take the lead in Denmark and, moreover, we will pick up on all the studies mentioned by the Minister in order to draw up a strategy when we have more knowledge, which are the two elements of the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222407	The questioner has used the phrase in the past: if we do not succeed. I have always been of that opinion, and I have said this to the rapporteur before, that I would very much like to see what we are achieving within the framework of the European Union. Then we can act if it turns out that we are not going to reach the EU level. However, national targets do not make sense when virtually everything that is produced is exported and when the majority of what we are affected by in terms of microplastics comes from the import side. I would like to sign for the second part of what the rapporteur said, because it is clear that the studies we are getting will, of course, follow on to the door and also the promise under the auspices of the European Union. It is clear that the new knowledge we get from these studies is, for example: on how the plastic runs out, etc., which I also mentioned in my speech, we must, of course, spread out into an EU perspective. However, this is, first and foremost, the European Union's way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222503	Yes, but as a country, after all, we are also responsible for the sources that come from here, and when it is not just about products, but about wear and waste and all sorts of other things, we can actually act within our national territory. In relation to a ban, I would say that I think it is very good that the Minister has taken this up at EU level. In the past, we had an answer to the Danish Parliament, which showed that Denmark was not among the countries that were trying to push the Commission in that area, so I think it is very good if we have come all the way on the bus. However, we have seen in the past that national bans have helped to push the Commission. The Minister will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222546	I am certainly not in favour of national bans, and I am simply not in general terms. I am concerned about doing a skilful lobbying in the circle of ministers and in relation to the Commission. It serves everyone's best. I am not going to implement national bans in this area, but it is clear that the knowledge we accumulate from the experience we experience in Denmark and which we gather along the way will spread out, because we are at least as concerned about this issue as the rapporteur seems to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222621	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222624	The Minister mentioned that the Minister will be investing in action at EU level, and if the EU does not reach its goal then you can look at what we will do on the Danish side. I recently saw some figures showing that in 2050 we can expect to have more plastic in the seas than fish. What is needed before the Minister thinks: OK, now the EU is in the finish line, or hoof, now the EU is not in the finish line, so now we have to step in? What's the difference? Where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222656	I am convinced that we will achieve the European Union. We have had that in the case of endocrine disruptors. We have done a very, very good job, among other things. with Sweden. Of course, we are not completely in the end in that we have achieved everything in the case of endocrine disruptors, but we have achieved a very good step along the way. The same tactics will be used in this area when it comes to the EU part. Whether there is more plastic than fish in the oceans in 2050, I will not be able to comment on it here, but I just want to say that on a number of fronts we are preoccupied with how we counteract microplastics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222730	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222732	After all, we still have a number of endocrine disruptors in circulation, and we still have some that need to be used. So we cannot say that we are in the finish line, or what is it necessary to say that we are in the finish line, including in the plastics sector, which is what we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222749	In relation to endocrine disruptors: what I mean by our goal is that we have now pressured the Commission to act, and it must do so before the summer recess. It is on the basis of the legal proceedings that Sweden has conducted just before Christmas against the Commission. In relation to microplastics: for me, the first step is to raise the agenda so that we get the Commission to act. Then, of course, we must set realistic targets in relation to that, and there we will try to push for them to be as ambitious as possible, because that is in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222821	We thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. It's first, sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426222827	The motion for a resolution we are debating today is to introduce a ban on the sale of products in Denmark that have been added to microplastics and to work in parallel for an EU ban. The proposal also requires the government to develop a strategy for action against other microplastics. The fight against harmful substances is of great concern to us in the social democracy. In Denmark, we have invested massively in research in this whole area, and we have a great deal of knowledge and expertise in this area. That is why, of course, Denmark must also take the lead in the fight against harmful substances. The Danish population is exposed to the effects of microplastics in many places from, among others. through care products, clothing, furniture, paint, blankets and even food. It's quite ordinary everyday stuff. Although they are quite small pieces of plastic, they can do great harm to the environment, animals and human health. We do not know the full consequences of what microplastics do to nature and people, yet we believe that there is good reason to increase efforts in this area. In the United States, they have recently introduced a ban on microplastics in care products, which merely confirms that something should be done, including in the European Union. It is perfectly obvious that we are going the same way as the United States. The ban in the United States must be able to be used as a lever to get an EU ban on microplastics in care products through quickly. Once it is in place, the EU should also look at creating a more comprehensive and comprehensive plastic strategy that handles microplastics in the wider sense, but care products are a good place to start. The Socialists support an EU ban on the use of microplastics, and we believe that the EU should immediately get out of the starting blocks and follow the United States and ban the use of microplastics in care products. We would very much like the Minister to contact the Commission and his European colleagues with a call for proposals for an EU reduction in the use of microplastics in cosmetic care products, and preferably as soon as possible. And I would like to sign that the Minister has already put it into effect, and I assume that it is in the nature of the matter that the Folketing is, of course, kept informed of how and whether these probes bear fruit. This will provide a good basis for a domestic, national debate. It is our clear position that we must pursue the international track as much as we possibly can, because it is our belief that it is the most battling. Danish consumers are best protected with a common EU regulation. This applies to the ban on microplastics, as to many other harmful substances in our daily lives. That is why we do not believe that we should introduce Danish special rules or national bans until we have fought for a common EU regulation. On the other hand, we can support the creation of a solid basis for a strategy for action against microplastics. But overall, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223159	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223218	Thank you. The Left agrees that it is crucial that there is a focus on the overall objective of reducing microplastics in food and nature as much as possible. As the motion for a resolution rightly describes, the Danish population is exposed to microplastics from many different sources, and this has negative health consequences. The first part of the resolution proposes that Denmark introduce a national ban on microplastics in care products and products that have been added to microplastics. However, the problem is that the vast majority of consumer products marketed and consumed in Denmark are produced abroad. Therefore, a national ban on the sale of products with added microplastics would have negative consequences for Danish importers. In addition, the cosmetics industry in the EU is already phasing out the use of microplastics in cosmetics, and the contribution of microplastics from cosmetics to discharge into watercourses is extremely limited. However, the Left agrees with Enhedslisten that plastic does not belong in our nature and consumer products, and therefore the government should press for EU regulation against microplastics in care products. The second part of the motion for a resolution proposes a strategy to achieve the most effective removal of microplastics in treatment plants and to prevent the spread of microplastics from secondary sources. However, the development of a strategy for the removal of microplastics in wastewater treatment plants and a possible measurement programme for microplastics in effluents from treatment plants require a greater knowledge of microplastics. This applies both to treatment in the current types of treatment plants and to the development of precise and cost-effective analytical methods to determine the content of microplastics in waste water. In addition, a number of initiatives have already been launched to obtain knowledge about microplastics in waste water. The third part of the motion for a resolution proposes that a strategy be drawn up on how microplastics from secondary sources, such as: wear of car tyres and soles, etc. may be limited. However, the problem is that most products and materials are produced for marketing in the EU and in many cases also for the global market. Therefore, where standards for the release of microplastics from products and materials are to be developed, they should be set at least at Union level. For some types of products, e.g. It is difficult to lay down requirements for textiles. Although the Left agrees with the proposers that the restriction of microplastics is an important issue, the Left is voting against the proposal, among other things. with reference to the need to resolve this at EU and international level and to the fact that initiatives have already been taken and that the issue will also be addressed in a plastic strategy that the Commission will draw up as part of the circular economy action plan. Then I should also welcome the Danish People's Party and say that they also reject the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223537	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223542	I am glad that we agree that this is a very, very big problem and that it is something we have to deal with. I would like to ask the rapporteur: since a state in the United States could impose a ban when the United States could impose a ban, does the rapporteur also believe that it will be possible for Denmark to impose a ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223609	Let me not start by guessing what the background is for what has been done in the United States. At any rate, it can be said that there is a significant difference in terms of market conditions and the size of the country, but there is no doubt whatsoever that it would be a blow to the air from my point of view and from our point of view if it were a national ban. There I agree with the view that has been put forward in the past, namely that if it is to have any real effect, we need to go the EU way and the international way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223644	But the point is that when you choose to do something like one state in the United States, for example, in a defined territory where there is international trade. I guess you can do it elsewhere. After all, we are helping to send out a clear signal, and that is why, if Denmark takes the lead in banning dangerous substances, which could also be a ban on microplastics, it can actually help push the Commission in the right direction. It will be quick to refer to the European Union and it will be the excuse for not really doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223723	It may well be that some people regard it as an excuse. I don't see it that way. On the whole, we are in agreement on the issue. The question then is how best to do something about it in a sustainable way. There I think, as I can also hear, I agree with several rapporteurs that we should go the EU way, so that is no excuse. Rather, this is the way to try to achieve an effective solution at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223746	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll move on with Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426223752	In this context, I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. I was, in fact, a little confused about the motion for a resolution just now, because I certainly thought that the SF has tabled a similar motion for a resolution. So I actually think that if we do not think that we will get around things this evening we will have an opportunity very soon again when the SF's largely identical motion for a resolution has to be dealt with; I am quite sure of that. That is, of course, fine, because it is a very relevant subject; I really agree with several of the rapporteurs who have already been on the floor. I understand the concern when we talk about, among other things. microplastics in these care products. And you may think it may be a little uncomfortable in that way to inflict small pieces of plastic on yourself in connection with the use of care products and other things. So, of course, we welcome the initiative to highlight this challenge of plastic in nature, because we certainly do not believe in the Liberal Alliance that plastic waste belongs in nature. On the contrary, we believe that plastic waste at least in some contexts, perhaps even in the vast majority of contexts, can constitute a kind of resource in our society if you can otherwise collect the plastic waste again. That is why we are actually very pleased that I heard the Minister mention this earlier with half a penny that the European Commission has already begun work towards a plastic strategy in connection with the work on the circular economy. And again with half an ear I think I heard the Minister also mention the efforts of the Danish Government in this regard and the fact that the government has involved itself in the work and wants a strengthened European strategy to emerge from this, as well as an action plan at EU level rather than a national action plan. As far as I know, the plastics industry itself is already engaged in some initiatives to replace these microplastic parts in their products. And I am really glad that in this way there is already a voluntary development in industry. The Danish EPA came up with a report, I think, a year ago or something similar about the distribution of microplastics in our environment. And as far as I remember, it's a very small percentage, 0.1 or 0.2 per cent, that comes from these care products, whereas it's more wear and tear from car tires, paints and other things shown up to 70%. from car tires that are the case. That is why I think it is essential that we put in place where the impact is greatest and that we also make sure, in general terms, that we run the EU track. In fact, I also believe that the efforts already being made by the government, as far as I understand the Minister is concerned, can lead to action at EU level which might match the efforts already being made by the United States in some way. So, overall, all this talk leads a late evening on the parliamentary platform to say that the Liberal Alliance does not actually support the motion for a resolution, but perhaps in fact supports the intentions and welcomes the work that the government hopefully will continue under the auspices of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224202	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224209	The spread and contamination of plastic in nature is one of the more recent problems that have been identified and which may end up having disastrous consequences for our society some years in the future. There is already talk of huge plastic islands out in the oceans, not small islands, but islands the size of, yes, when I first heard of, they talked about islands the size of Funen and Lolland, but now they talk about islands the size of France, as I understand it. And this shows that we are dealing with a problem which is growing above our heads and which we do not understand the consequences of, but which looks to be a major problem. And that is why it is super important that we take it seriously and do what we are really good at in Denmark and go ahead. That is why we support this proposal from the Enhedslisten. We think it makes good sense to take the lead and address the very concrete issue of products with added microplastics as the first, but also embark on a slightly broader effort and work on a strategy for how to tackle this broader issue. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224335	There seems to be a comment from Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224345	Thank you. It was the rapporteur's remark about plastic islands that made me press the board here. I've heard about these plastic islands myself. Perhaps this is not so much connected with the motion for a resolution here, which deals with microplastics, but I nevertheless think it is an interesting consideration, and I would really like to know whether the rapporteur himself has seen these plastic islands or in any other way received concrete evidence that they exist on that scale. I do not remember whether it was Lolland-Falster to which the rapporteur referred, and later France, but it was at least a question of their geographical extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224435	I haven't seen those islands myself, I think, few have. I have the impression that when you talk about islands in this context, it is said that there is a sealing of plastic materials which, due to the flow conditions in sea areas in certain places, accumulates. So it's not an island that you can walk out of a ship and walk on, it's an island that you can look out over and see that there are large amounts of plastic here and swells close up and down each other. It is, as I understand it, in the sense that you have to understand these islands in the oceans. So even if you can say that it's not mainland, it's a violent consequence that there's so close a collection of plastic that you can look beyond it and that there are these effects on animal life, for example. birds that absorb the plastic and die of it in the end, and a number of other effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224536	Thank you for your answer. Perhaps the rapporteur and I in committee can try to delve into the concept of plastic islands. I am a little interested in whether it is an urban legend, as some might call it, or whether it is a fact. And who knows, it may actually be that together in committee we can arrange a study trip to such a plastic island.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224610	As I understand it, you have to go to the Pacific Ocean to see the really big islands so that it could be an exciting study trip. But I also think that perhaps we could ask the new organisation, Plastic Change, which is working on this area, to come and explain the issue further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224626	Then another question has just been raised from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224637	Yes. Thank you, and I apologize for being late. But before we move into such a strange room of myth formation, we have to say that even the plastics industry says that these islands exist. Of course, they are not landproof, as they point out on the front page of their website, www.plastindustrien.dk. Why don't you go check it out? But it is precisely as the rapporteur says, the total mass of micro-plastics and larger pieces of plastic, which corresponds to, I think, 700 times the size of Denmark. There are also several marine biologists who have written many crowns about this. So I don't think we should go out there where there's suddenly a Atlantis or similar myth formations. I think it is established with reasonable certainty that they exist. It's just so we don't need any more gunpowder on it. I hope that the rapporteur agrees entirely with me on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224728	I fully agree with that. I am sure there is plenty of evidence for these so-called islands that are not land-resistant. The plastics industry has also entered into some of this cooperation to address the issue, and I think it is very constructive that there is an industry organisation here that is also involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224749	The questioner? No. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224802	Now you have to be careful about going to the platform this evening. Now the Alternative and the Liberal Alliance have just agreed to go to the Pacific, so now we have to see where I can be invited by some during my speech. In the Radical Left, we would very much like to sign the speech by the Minister for the Environment and Food, where the Minister mentioned that the government has already taken the initiative to take it up in the European Union. It is, of course, seen radically in the right place, because the European Union has the size to be able to enforce such a ban. It will be very difficult for a relatively small, or let us go all the way and say a small country like Denmark to control all food from all over the world that comes to the country. It will be much easier in the European Union, which has the size to do so. In addition to this, a decision in the European Union will also mean combating these wastes throughout Europe and not just in Denmark. So we'd really like to sign for that. This is also the path we decided to recommend when we had a group meeting, so it is actually very easy. That is why we say no to the motion for a resolution, but would really like to support the government's efforts, which sound reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224930	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426224937	It has happened a little strange that SF's proposal for a parliamentary resolution on effective action against plastic pollution, B 94, tabled on 17 March 2016, has been lost in the Legal Secretariat for some reason • we do not really know, but we shall discuss what later, as the Liberal Alliance also mentioned, and under paragraph 1.2 of this overall framework law on plastics, the Enhedslisten's proposal is included, so of course we support that, because it is part of the overall proposal that we will discuss later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426225022	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426225045	I am very pleased with the debate we have had here today, because I think it shows that, across Parliament as a whole, we agree that we are faced with a relatively new environmental problem which we are all taking very seriously, and we agree that something needs to be done about it. What we may disagree on is the pace, but then we have something to discuss and keep sticking to in the future. If you have been dealing with the environment for many years, you know that new environmental problems are developing gradually. And there is no doubt that plastic pollution and micro-plastic pollution are one of the major environmental problems we are facing now, both in relation to this huge plastic soup or the huge plastic islands, or whatever we are going to call those that are floating around in the oceans of the world, on many, many hundreds of tonnes, and which I will look forward to seeing the committee going out to see, so that we can see for ourselves, but also in relation to the increasing amount of micro-plastics which are being absorbed into the food chain and which can carry dangerous chemicals and which are ultimately in danger of ending up at the top of the food chain, which is in our own bodies. So I would say that there is a connection between these large plastic islands and the microplastic, because the plastic is gradually breaking down. So the plastic contamination with large plastic pieces, which is probably in the Pacific Ocean and elsewhere, also turns into microplastics at some point. The proposal here, tabled by Enhedslisten, has been further updated by a study published last week by DTU Aqua, where 400 herring and cod were examined and where biologists found small plastic fibres in every five fish. That means that this is a very serious problem, also because it is the case that if we first get it in our own bodies, it is very difficult to separate. This means that it accumulates in the body, and it is suspected of causing cell death, infections or other types of immune-intensive conditions. So, both for the sake of the environment and indeed for the sake of health, this is an area of priority. This is an area that we also need to focus on here in the Folketing in relation to regularly discussing what we can do with it and what we can do on the Danish side. And in this context, I think it is very positive that the Minister for the Environment has announced that, as such, we are already in the process. As I also mentioned in my question to the Minister, it is not so long ago that the Danish Parliament has been given an answer that Denmark was not among the countries that addressed this issue in the European Union, and that is now, and I think that is very positive. You can do different things. You can both and maybe it is the most obvious thing to start by doing • removing micro pearls where they are added, for example. in cosmetic products and where it is not necessary at all. It's a place you can put in right now. The second and more complex, which, as the Minister also mentioned, is what the statistics take up the most, is all that comes from wear and tear, for example. of artificial grass or shoe soles or car tires and other things, which are more difficult to overcome, because one cannot replace that type of use from one day to the next with something else. And that is also why we need to have a more open approach to it and say that we need to learn more about what the sources are, what the substitutes are for the various sources, and how we can be better at cleaning the purification plants so that we can remove microplastics and avoid it ending up in the environment. Overall, I sensed a very positive approach to the resolution. I look forward to the committee's work becoming even more clever in terms of global plastic pollution and its consequences, and we shall have to discuss, as has also been mentioned, an even more far-reaching proposal before long, and I think it is really good that we in the Danish Parliament regularly discuss one of the most important environmental problems of our time at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426225515	Thank you to the rapporteur for the author. I understand there has been a desire for a second round, and for the second round Mr. Rasmus Jarlov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426225532	I'm sorry I missed the first round. To be honest, it is enough because I was sitting up in my office, otherwise I would spend about 30 hours in the Chamber every week, I think if I were to sit here throughout the debate. So you must have me forgiven. But, of course, I have heard the debate, and I think it is a sympathetic proposal again. It is often when it comes from the Enhedslisten. But there are great practical problems. It would be enormously comprehensive to ban products with microplastics, because there are so many products that contain it. This is something that should be resolved at European level, because a purely Danish ban would be incredibly difficult to enforce. That is why we are pleased that some initiatives are being taken and we would also very much like to talk about it. I can assure you that this is a problem which we also take very seriously. We think it is one of the world's major environmental problems, and it is very good that there is something more focus on it in those years, and that is something that should be seen here in the light of. So we look forward to discussing it further, but we do not think we can vote through a purely Danish ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426225650	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160426225704	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 April 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
