ParlaMint-DK_20160122100019	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil (S): Motion for a resolution No. Β 55 (Proposal for a resolution of Parliament on an official apology to persons who have been neglected by the social institutions of the State). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Rune Lund, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 25 January 2016 he will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Jesper Kiel's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100101	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100124	Having children is one of the most sensitive and fragile things we humans can go into. That is why, as a society, we also have an obligation to provide a proper framework and rules for the parties involved, especially when fertilization takes place with the help of society. The bill that we are going to deal with here today has come into being on the basis of the ongoing ethical discussions that are taking place between all the parties of the Folketing. Here it has been agreed that the time has come to update and renew some of the rules in relation to information and consent for assisted reproduction. The bill contains several parts which I will briefly examine. The first part is about reconciling the legal amendment adopted by all parties of the Folketing in 2012 with the requirements for information and consent that we make in connection with assisted reproduction. Four years ago, we abolished the obligation to destroy stored semen and stored fertilized eggs in the event of the man's death. Instead, it was up to the man and the tissue establishment to agree jointly whether or not to destroy it and what conditions should be attached to its use. This agreement could in principle be oral. On this point, we are now creating more legal clarity, and we are doing so by demanding that there be an explicit written position from the man who tells us about the use of the semen or fertilized eggs after his death. In the absence of such consent, the semen and embryos must be destroyed. In addition, there are other parts of the bill. One element is that the treating healthcare professional no longer has to inform about the possibilities of adoption before starting treatment with assisted reproduction. Another element is that in the future the treating healthcare professional will have a larger room to assess how to ensure that a required consent is still valid on the ongoing course of treatment. This can be done either by deriving it from the circumstances or by requiring written confirmation. A third element is the lifting of the obligation to ensure that the consent of the donor has been obtained before starting treatment with assisted reproduction. We do this because the germ cells used for the treatment come from a tissue establishment which already has an obligation to inform and obtain the consent of the donor. The Social Democrats therefore consider that the legislative proposal will create the properness and clarity necessary for assisted reproduction, and can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100335	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100349	In the Danish People's Party, we support the amendment of the law in order to ensure clear rules as to when a woman can continue treatment against involuntary infertility, even after the death of a spouse or partner. Many couples want a child, and it's quite natural. However, we increasingly see that some women find it difficult to get pregnant. There may be many reasons for this. In time, solutions to this challenge have been found. Robert Edward developed the so-called test tube method in the 1970s. The first test tube child was born on July 25, 1978. Since then, a great many things have happened in this area. Often, as health politicians, we have to deal with many ethically difficult issues. Sometimes the answer is not simple, and sometimes it leads to many other questions. If you imagine a married couple wanting assisted reproduction and therefore having fertilized an egg that is later to be laid up in the woman, and everything is going well, yet before the egg is laid up in the woman, does the man die, the woman has the right to have the fertilised egg laid up, and how do we put the child that is born? It may also be semen that the man has frozen, perhaps due to a cancer. The man dies, and one still has away semen lying, which was actually planned for the common child that the couple had dreamed of. I do not think anyone had imagined that we would have to deal with these issues here in the Assembly. However, it is necessary in the modern world to ensure that we act ethically and morally correctly and that the laws follow with time. Therefore, the rules now become such with this bill that before a treatment begins, the treating health care professional must inform that the man can give written consent to the use by the woman of his semen or eggs fertilised with his sperm for the treatment of assisted reproduction after the husband's death, and of the consequences of not consenting to it. The treating healthcare professional shall also ensure that the consent remains valid. To be treated after the man's death by using his semen or eggs fertilised with his semen, the treating health care professional shall first ensure that there is a written consent from the man and any conditions under which the consent is fulfilled. So it puts some requirements on the fertility clinics that we have, and we must ensure that they live up to them. Of the consultation answers, we understand that they did not think it was their job to find out whether there is a consent, but the law says that this will be the case in the future, and that is why we must also ensure that they live up to it. The Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100654	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100709	Thank you for the floor. Today we first treat the law on assisted reproduction in relation to treatment, diagnostics and research. For some it is easy to have children; for others it is a long and often difficult process. With this bill, we are meeting the reality of the country's fertility clinics. A woman must be able to use a male's semen or fertilised eggs after the man's death, provided that her consent has been given in writing and that the health care professional must ensure that semen or fertilised eggs are destroyed after his death if there is no written consent. A healthcare professional shall ensure that a written consent is valid throughout the course of treatment so that it is not revoked. We also lift the obligation to obtain the consent of a donor using germ cells, because germ cells donated for assisted reproduction are always handled by an approved tissue establishment, which is therefore already obliged to obtain the consent of a donor. Last but not least, it is proposed that it should no longer be mandatory for the treating healthcare professional to inform about adoption before a treatment in the form of assisted reproduction. On the left side, we support the proposed amendments, particularly in view of the fact that, even after the adoption of the bill here, there will still be freedom for men and women to agree, whether or not women may use semen from embryos for treatment in the form of assisted reproduction after the man's death, and under what conditions the bill says. For us in the Left, we attach importance, in addition to the fact that it is clear from the law what should happen to stored embryos or stored semen in the event of the man's death, that it creates security for all parties. In addition, we also consider it essential that the treating healthcare professional ensures that a given consent is valid, especially in view of the fact that assisted reproduction may in some cases be a very long process. The health care provider therefore has an important role to play in ensuring the validity of the consent. Against this background, we in the Left can support the proposal as presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100921	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122100927	Thank you. I don't want to make it that awful far. I think my colleague has explained quite well what the draft law means. I would like to highlight two elements of the draft law which I consider to be the most important. One is the point, which has been raised by several speakers, of creating more clarity on how to deal with it when a man who has entered into an agreement to try with assisted reproduction dies. How do you handle it? I think it is a good thing that we are making it more clear that it must be with written consent. Secondly, there is perhaps a minor change in practice, but I think it is good that it is included in the law, namely that it is no longer obliged to inform about adoption in the context of assisted reproduction. It seems to me that there are two completely different things, and it is not logical that one should about a conversation about adoption before trying with assisted reproduction. There are some other issues relating to adoption, and it is perhaps a legacy that it has been in the law, so I think it is fine that we get it right too. But we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go. It is indeed from May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance, first. Here you go. It's not like that with so many new ones. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101059	Thank you. I will also be very brief. It has already been explained quite well. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal, which provides clarity in relation to the amendment of the law per year. 1 October 2012, so as to ensure consistency between the intention of the law and the practice. We support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101120	Thank you. Then we'll get things back together. Here you go, Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101127	Thank you. I will also be very brief. In the alternative, we also support this bill and I would like to highlight a few things that we are particularly pleased about. One is the transparency of the procedure in the future, so that there is no doubt in future cases. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister is actually acting in this matter and ensuring that we have some legislation in this area in the wake of some cases where there have been doubts. Finally, I should also like to focus on the element of legislation which I think is really important, namely that the health care provider should ensure that consent is still lost, but that does not necessarily have to be written. I believe that we should take stock of the situation, because some of what we need in our health services is that we should not always record things in writing, but sometimes we can derive something from a situation. So I would like to welcome that too. However, as I said, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101221	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101234	Thank you for that, President. Many people find it difficult to have children, and while we were in government, we made it easier in several ways to get help to have children. One of the great victories was when we removed the user fee introduced by the VK government, which until then, as far as I remember, cost 900 fewer children in 2011. It was a big step to remove the user fee and make it easier for everyone to have children regardless of their wallet. By comparison, the proposal we are discussing here today is quite small, but it can also be right. I would like to give two of the points a few words on the way. Firstly, the proposal is about the situation in which the man dies. The great achievement we made in 2012 when we removed the rule that if the man dies, sperm and fertilized eggs should be thrown out. There may be good reasons why, even after the husband's death, you want more children with him. With the law here we make it a little clearer that the woman can use semen and fertilized eggs after the man's death, if he has given his consent in writing. And if the man has not consented, the health care professional must ensure that semen and fertilized eggs are thrown out. Secondly, we are abolishing the rule that has so far been that the health care provider had to tell us about the possibility of adopting before it could be allowed to embark on assisted reproduction. As the law says, and I quote: "It is thus the assessment that women and couples are well informed about the possibilities of adopting a child and that adoption is no longer considered an alternative to treatment with assisted reproduction. ▪ We in the Radical Left think this is a very good thing to get rid of, and we are happy to support the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101428	Thank you. Sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101435	Thank you. I do not think this is going to be a longer debate. It seems that all the parties in the Folketing agree. It is also because we have had the opportunity to discuss it in advance. But I would also like to say a few words along the way. As the radical rapporteur also mentioned, this is something that we regarded at least from the SF as one of the good things we had succeeded in in the government, namely that we had removed the user fee for fertility treatment and sterilization that had been introduced the previous year. We did so with the 2012 Finance Act. However, I think we are taking some important steps, also because there have unfortunately been examples of the fact that the legal framework in force in this area has given rise to disagreement or perhaps discussion of the interpretation of the legislation in force. That is why I think it is very good that we should now clarify this and ensure that a consent is made, so that, in the event of the husband dying, there is an opportunity to ensure that the marriage mate or spouse has the opportunity to have the children that were in the process of being put into the world. So from the SF we can support the proposal. I think that there are a great many good elements in this, so that we can get some of the areas that, unfortunately, have given rise to debate in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101548	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101554	Thank you. One might say that the most central element of this bill is, of course, that it is now the case that the consent that has to be obtained from the man must be written. So now that we're changing it, you can take yourself to say that it's really strange that you haven't done it from the beginning. Because it's a pretty big statement to make of a person anyway, but it's really nice to have it adjusted now. I am quite excited to see this as there will be an obligation to ensure the continued consent, that is to say, how it is actually going to be in practice, and whether the health professionals themselves find the limit of when it is necessary to ask whether the man is still involved in this project if he has not appeared the last few times. In any case, I think it is a key obligation to give to staff, because it is clear that if a couple have broken, women do not have the same rights to try to be fertilised with the help of the man. In addition, there are some changes in relation to adoption, which I thought Mrs Stine Brix was very good about. In addition, I also think it is reasonable that we should always think about what obligations we are giving our health professionals to ask and inform about certain things, and it must be said here that this is not something that staff need to use their energy for. So we think it is a really sensible change of law and we support it in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101715	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101726	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the comments on the bill, where we are now getting legal clarity about what it takes for a woman to be treated in the form of assisted reproduction after her husband's death. Of course, this is a situation that does not occur very often, but it is still important that we also get the rules in place when or if the situation arises. Then, as several rapporteurs have said, the draft law also contains a number of simplifications of the requirements imposed on health professionals in the treatment of assisted reproduction. For example: is the fact that we no longer have to inform about the possibilities of adoption and that we give greater freedom to ensure that the consent of, for example, a partner is valid throughout the course of treatment. For example, if you as a couple arrive hand in hand, it is perhaps a little bit too much to ask today to get it in writing. I am pleased to note that there is broad support for the bill on the part of all parties in the Folketing, and I also think that there has been a very good discussion of it at our ethical meetings prior to the tabling of the bill here. If there are any follow-up questions here at the committee stage, I will of course be happy to reply to them and will assist the committee. Thank you for your positive reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101858	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101913	The debate is open. Sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122101933	The draft law we are discussing here today on the question of whether the dignity policy is, after all, the result of the decision on the elderly billion in the Finance Act. After all, the Elder Remilliard was one of the happy messages from the Danish People's Party and the government when the bourgeois parties entered into an agreement on this year's Finance Act in November. If you did not know better or knew where the money came from, you could almost warm up the heart of the goodness of the bourgeois towards the elderly. If you try to follow where the money comes from, things do look a little different. Unfortunately, there is a slightly different picture of the possibility for municipalities to provide dignified care for the elderly in the years to come. Because even though the government and the Danish People's Party pride themselves on their new dignity billions, they actually go with one hand and give with the other. In the summer municipal agreement, the government converted the elderly billion into the block grant, which means that a great many municipalities lose money on the restructuring. And that is unlike the old-age billion that the previous government dropped off, which was specifically aimed at the elderly. In the Finance Act, the bourgeois parties also agreed to cut pensioners' housing benefits. Last month, however, the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the negative growth in the municipalities that they had otherwise said they would not, namely when they agreed to the re-priority contribution over the next 3-4 years, which will cost the municipalities billions of kroner each year. Most recently, the government has been somewhat reluctant to increase the cost of asylum, which could lead to cuts in, among other things. the elderly area. So I believe that if the Danish People's Party really meant it when they said that they would provide for a genuine elderly billion, then perhaps they should not add votes to the municipal savings that we are going to experience in the coming years, because then you really feed the dog with its own tail. In fact, when you take all these factors into account, I think that the new dignity policies of the bourgeois are nothing but words on a piece of paper. The bill obliges the local authorities of the country to decide on and subsequently publish a dignified policy for municipal care for the elderly. We in the Socialists very much agree that municipal care for the elderly must be based on dignity. But the government and the Danish People's Party go wrong in the city if they believe that they ensure a dignified care for the elderly by forcing the municipalities to write it on a piece of paper. At best, it's self-deception. On the other hand, this is ensured by ensuring that municipal employees have the best conditions and conditions for providing dignified care for the elderly. Everything else, not declarations of intent and wording, but hands and feet, makes the difference between how good care for the elderly can actually be given. When you read the bill, you can easily get the impression that the bourgeois do not actually believe in the municipalities and the municipal employees and believe that they are already doing everything they can to make it as good as possible for our elderly people. In this way, the proposal on dignity policies is almost like a declaration of distrust for the municipalities and municipal staff in the care of the elderly. On the other hand, we in the Socialist Group believe that the municipalities and local authorities are already concerned with providing dignified care for the elderly. But we are also aware that this requires that the framework is in order. That is why we gave priority to setting aside an elderly billion at a time when there was much less resources to invest in welfare. Fortunately, the times are different now, but unfortunately this does not make the bourgeois parties have higher ambitions in the field of welfare, among other things. the elderly as well. We support the bill, although we believe that, unfortunately, the dignity billion will not act as a boost, but perhaps rather as a plaster on the wounds of the policy pursued by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102321	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102335	I am, of course, pleased that the Socialists support the proposal. I had hoped that the rapporteur would have spoken a little more in relation to what he actually started by saying, that is to say, that one is pleased with the message of more dignity in care for the elderly. But then I thought there was a lot going on about some negative thoughts, and you end up, among other things. Get rid of saying it's not gonna work. How can the rapporteur really be so sure that this is not going to work? In fact, it is a declaration of confidence for the municipalities and also for the employees, who have been responsible for the fact that the Danish People's Party has wanted to participate in this and has actually put it forward in the finance negotiations. We are saying: here are some opportunities to do something that gives a new culture in this area so that you can think differently. Because that is one of the things that we have heard from a great many interest groups that we want to do. I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur's comment on this: is it not really something that the Socialists recognise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102446	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102448	Now I would like to say that what I said about the happy message was that it was the happy message from the Danish People's Party and the government. In relation to dignity policies, whether it should provide better and different opportunities, what actually helps when there is a lack of hands and feet out there is the possibility that there will be more people to help the elderly. When we have seen the examples, for example on television, where people have put notes on the refrigerator with when they can go to the bathroom, it does not help to write a policy of dignity. It is simply a question of there actually being a lack of hours to help the elderly. Then it's just that I'm saying this is a mistrust to the municipalities. They do what they can, with the resources they have, in order to actually carry out as worthy an elderly care as possible. So what we have to do in here is actually that the framework is there for a dignified care of the elderly in the municipalities. After all, it is not the case that the politicians who sit on the individual city councils or the employees do not actually want to carry out dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102551	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102552	Yes, but I also hope, as the rapporteur has noted, that the old-age billion now coming to dignity policy is set aside on top of what had been done in the past and could be maintained in the area of the elderly. I would then like to know whether the rapporteur is not aware of the fact that there are actually a number of municipalities which have decided to retain precisely the billions that were paid in the past in the area of the elderly. Then you get something new, so you can go in and get this dignity policy done, which I don't see as any mistrust at all. I think it is almost encouraging municipalities to do some things that they actually want to do better. It can also be for warm hands etc. However, I think that the rapporteur has such a very negative attitude to this rather than saying that now, in fact, some municipalities have chosen to give priority to the area because they have maintained a billion, plus that they are being given some new funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102641	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102642	I'm not really negative. I think I am realistic in relation to the situation that our municipalities are facing and are going to face. What is rather special here, I think, is that the older billion which has now been set aside cannot actually be used for what the municipalities have already allocated money to. If you think more hands are missing, for example. At some of the care centres or night shifts etc., you can't spend this money on it, because it has to be for something that the municipality hasn't now set aside funds for. So I actually think this is more a question of signal policy than real policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102715	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102718	Thank you. In fact, I think it is tragic that the rapporteur goes up and criticises a proposal which is then voted in favour. At the same time, we go out and say that what we see in the care of the elderly today is unworthy. Who is it that has given the money to the elderly care that was in 2015? It was therefore a social democratic government which, according to the figures I have seen, made the municipalities' budgets 2.5 billion. kr. less. What we have done here with the financial law that we have been involved in is that we have made the municipalities' budgets 0.5 billion. kr. Better. So I wonder why we are so critical of what we ourselves have done, while criticising when we go out and give a subsidy to the municipalities. So I would like to hear: does the rapporteur think that it is good to have a policy of dignity which the politicians in the municipality are holding up on each other, or is it not good? Is that good or bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102816	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102817	I have no problem with us saying yes. That is also why we support the proposal to introduce the concept of dignity policy into the municipalities. My problem, or what I am trying to point out, is that in order to live up to a greater dignity in our care for the elderly, we need to create a better framework for the municipalities. What I also said in my rapporteur's speech was that we actually placed an older billion at a time when, and I do not think that Liselott Blixt or I may disagree about the finances of this country in general was somewhat more strained than they are now. Now, in fact, we are on the way and on the other side of the crisis, where there is an opportunity to raise welfare. And then I just have to say that the Danish People's Party has actually voted that the municipalities will experience negative growth in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102859	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102900	That's not true. I cannot understand why the Socialists go up every single time and tell lies from the platform. There is plus growth in 2016. 2017, 2018 and 2019 we don't know anything about, because a Finance Act hasn't been made yet. We will only do so at the end of the year if the rapporteur has forgotten. I would still like to maintain that the older billion given during the reign of the Socialists was converted into a block grant. It is still away in the municipalities. So I hope that social democratic politicians in the municipalities have maintained it for the elderly. Does the Socialists' rapporteur know whether they have retained it, or is it because they know that it has gone to other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122102944	Now it is the case that when you make an agreement with KL and you put it on the block grant, it actually means that then the municipalities have the opportunity to prioritize how they want to use it. What I am talking about is that there are actually municipalities that have lost an incredible amount of money on this change. They then get some in connection with the care of the elderly. In some places it goes to zero, and in some places it actually goes to minus. So there are some municipalities that actually have no more money to provide elderly services for in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103010	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103012	Thank you. I am really pleased that the Socialists can support this proposal, which makes such a positive contribution to the municipalities and also to the efforts being made out there. I hear the rapporteur talking about minus growth. We can talk about that. I would just like the rapporteur to tell me: how many of the municipalities of the country had minus growth under the former SR government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103043	I can't tell you on a stand-by basis how many municipalities there were. What I am dealing with is that we are in a different economic situation now than we were under the previous government, and I think we need to recognise that. I would also acknowledge that this government had the same economic conditions as the previous government. Then there were other priorities that had to be done. What I am just saying is that there is actually room for us to increase the welfare of this country, but what has been done by the Left as a governing party with the bourgeois support parties? It is that money has actually been spent on other things than raising welfare. That is fair enough, it is a political priority, and I have to say that I totally disagree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103118	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103120	Well then, I would like to help the rapporteur a little on the way here, because it is the case that in 60 out of 98 municipalities there was, in fact, minus growth under the Social Democratic Government. I just think it's important that we have things in the right perspective. What this government is doing is giving priority to growth all the way around. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur recognises the 500 million. kr., which is now being given extra priority to the elderly area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103149	Of course, I recognise what comes to extra welfare in the municipalities. I am just of the opinion, with my background in the municipal world, that it is not enough at all to carry out the welfare task that exists in the municipalities, and certainly not in relation to the area of the elderly. In fact, with the examples we have seen of what the municipalities have had to do in the area of the elderly, I believe that we have a duty in here to create a framework which will enable both employees and city councils to provide better care for the elderly than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103217	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103221	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is up to the municipal council to decide how to give priority to the money and that it is also the case that the block grants have been changed, that is to say that in the individual municipalities it was possible to keep the money in the area of the elderly which was converted into block grants.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103241	That is absolutely correct. I also confirmed before that, when you add it to the block grant, it is the individual city councils that give priority. However, it is still the case that when the costs are increasing in some areas I can mention, for example, the children and young people in Odense, where Mrs Pernielle Bendixen comes from and there is no more money to take off, you have to take them from elsewhere, and there it has been in some municipalities the older area that has had to endure. I think Mrs Pernille Bendixen will be able to recognize that from Odense Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103306	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103308	I can briefly inform the rapporteur that we actually chose to keep our money in the area of the elderly, so that more money is now being provided. I would really like to hear what the Social Democrats voted on the re-priority contribution when we dealt with it here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103322	What we did was that we actually voted in favour of it as part of the 2016 municipality agreement on the basis of an agreement between KL and the government. However, a resolution was also tabled that we did not actually want it in the years to come, and the Danish People's Party actually voted against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103336	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103352	When the Danish People's Party arrived at the Finance Law negotiations, one of our greatest desires was to secure funds for dignified care for the elderly in Denmark. We wanted 1 billion. kr., as it would be a good starting point for the municipalities to work with, and the government and the other parties supported. It was a great pleasure, and it is also today that it is not only because we as a party had a great desire to do so, but rather because we want to be involved in running a new culture in the area of the elderly in the municipalities. The money is enough to cover parts of a more dignified care for the elderly, but there is no doubt that it does not, of course, do everything. However, we are convinced that when the municipalities have drawn up their dignity policy and work to achieve it, it will rub off on much else in the care of the elderly and be marked by new thinking, which has been desired by several, even outside Christiansborg. Exactly 1 year ago, on January 22, 2015, I joined with many others in a very interesting conference here at Christiansborg organized by the Danish Nursing Council, FOA and Elders The issue with the theme "Should we have a dignity guarantee?" Prior to the conference, there had been an increased focus on how to optimise care for the elderly and with a slightly different approach than the one that had hitherto been leading, which was about economic considerations, focus on services and time recording and not on relationships. It was with the desire to focus on relations that Dansk Folkeparti chose to continue working with others. the ten elements of dignity that were presented to the various organisations on that day. These are elements that have inspired the part of the 2016 Finance Act called A dignified care for the elderly. What, then, is a dignified care of the elderly and a dignified life of the elderly? It is not certain that today or in the future we will be able to come up with a precise definition, but when I think of the elderly I have around me, and of the fact that one day I myself get older and need the care and help of others, my thoughts immediately fall on the fact that I want it to be a life that reminds me as much as possible of the life that has been lived, with the certainty that aging affects both physics and the mind, and that you can maintain a positive self-conception. If it is taken from you and you experience difficulty or not having care and care, there is no doubt that the quality of life is deteriorating significantly. Quality of life must be part of the heading for the intention to focus on dignified care for the elderly. The fact that, as an individual, one can live on the basis of one's identity and personality, as long as it is possible at all, as it is formulated in the overall objectives of the three organisations for a more dignified care of the elderly, seems to me to be very significant. It is therefore also important that older people feel involved and respected as they are. This will provide security for the elderly, and security is a key word for being treated with dignity. I think that applies to all of us, regardless of our age or the history of our lives. Sometimes little is needed to preserve and safeguard the quality of life in the elderly. It may be the little things in everyday life that actually make a difference. It may be when you get hair set, get support to resume a hobby, or if you, for example, get support. I'm getting fresh air. These are just some examples out of many. When the three organizations in their notes write that 59 percent. If the population fears that they will receive unworthy care, care and treatment when they grow older, then it is thought-provoking. That is why it is necessary for us to ensure that the municipalities are obliged to draw up a policy of dignity in connection with the implementation of the elderly billion, and the Danish People's Party looks forward to following that process and hopes and hopes that the municipalities will go to the task with enthusiasm. This is, of course, primarily due to older citizens who, with age, have become vulnerable in one way or another. After all, the funds are distributed according to the number of elderly people in the individual municipalities, and there it is important that we ensure that wherever you live in Denmark, you can share the funds and receive dignified care for the elderly. It is, of course, gratifying that as a population we live longer and for many we live a more healthy and active life, but it is inevitable that with age there are greater or less disadvantages to which public assistance is required. And in order to ensure that funds are spent in the area of the elderly and in the area of dignity, it has been an explicit wish of the Danish People's Party that the funds are earmarked and that the municipalities must document how they are working to ensure and strengthen dignified care for the elderly. The Danish People's Party looks forward to following the development and implementation of dignity policies, as well as the work to change the culture in the area of the elderly, which will soon have to show improvements and be appreciated by older people, relatives and staff, and give the municipalities the incentive to follow up and take further steps in a direction, so that we will experience that older people today, but also future older people, will feel safe and sure that it is good to be older in Denmark, and that you should not fear a life as elderly people with care needs. Improvements may not take place within a few weeks, but hopefully in the coming period and the coming year it will be such that the debate on dignity that we have and have had over the past year and also today, and the legislative measures that we are now taking, will be noticeable, so that we ensure a decent care for the elderly in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103903	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122103907	These are incredibly nice words that the rapporteur has chosen to take on the platform today, and it is very difficult to disagree that there should be dignity for the elderly in the care of the elderly. We agree with that. There must also be confidence in the municipalities; it has also been part of the debate here earlier today. But in the real world, if you just stop having hat-damementality, but instead try to look at what it's all about, the money, you have to say that the municipalities are extremely pressured. Earlier this week, we had a debate on the challenge that integration costs are going to bring to Dansk Folkeparti, and we know that in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 the municipalities will have to deliver an average of 2.4 billion. kr. a year because of the decisions taken by the Danish People's Party. Therefore, I just have to ask: is the Danish People's Party totally blind to the fact that what the municipalities are working with at the moment is a hard-pressed economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104011	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104013	I think that the Danish People's Party is never blind to what reality looks like. We're actually doing a lot of digging into it. Now I also heard the Socialist rapporteur before, and I can see that this approach has been chosen, that it should be, what can be said, about the dignity billionaire as such, the economy, the priority contribution, etc. For the Danish People's Party, it is therefore important to have this debate, and this bill is about what we want, so that we look forward to ensuring better conditions for the elderly, a more dignified care for the elderly. I have to say that at the outset. But, of course, I would also like to say that, having been so hard on this issue, we just have to remember who has been in power for many years. Many of the figures that we have and which show that the municipalities have been cramped come from a time under a social democratic government. We also heard before that it is a large number of municipalities which, what should be said, have experienced negative growth in the time of the previous government. So what we're really doing right now is we're trying to set aside some funds. I think it is very, very gratifying that we can see that there are actually municipalities that choose to maintain the older billion that they received in the past and then add new ones so that they can actually upgrade the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104124	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104125	Despite the hard-pressed economy in Denmark during the period 2011-2014, the overall service growth framework increased 11⁄2 billion. kr. in the municipalities. But let it go. We have had a debate in this Chamber earlier today about whether or not this is a matter of trusting the municipalities. I simply cannot reconcile what the rapporteur is saying today with what the rapporteur's colleague Mr Beazley has said. René Christensen, DF's financial rapporteur, has spoken about the re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104208	Please keep to your speaking time, even when I say yes! Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104209	Well, I can't believe it's said that it should be something with distrust of the municipalities. It is true that we have just said that we are of course calling for the elderly billion that you had to be retained in this area, and then you are adding some new funds. It must then ensure that we actually have a more dignified care for the elderly, that we have a new culture, a new thinking in this area. So there are no questions of emergency guardian or mistrust. I would like to say to the rapporteur, if the rapporteur has time to listen to my answer, that it is so that we have actually had a dialogue with KL, where KL himself says that they are going to do this as a task they very, very much want to solve, and they are actually happy that we are going to get these policies of dignity under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104248	Thank you. Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104251	Thank you. Just now, the rapporteur referred to the previous government. The fact is that the previous government actually gave quite a lot of money to the area of children and education. We have among other things. given 1 billion. kr. for further training of teachers we have given to inclusion and vocational training, and we have given to adult education. In fact, the re-prioritisation contribution is such that the money is withdrawn. Is this how DF will pursue welfare policy if you take directly from young people to give to the elderly? If you do that, that is to say, take with one hand and give with the other, I am actually afraid that it is both young and old that will be worthy of need.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104333	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104334	Now I am neither a financial rapporteur nor an economist, but I would nevertheless like to say that we have got some figures on the table which tell us that it is true that the 2.4 billion has been removed, as it were. kr., as we have heard before. But we have also returned funds to the municipalities, and then we have added one billion to the area of the elderly. So, in reality, more money is actually coming to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104400	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104402	But the fact is that in relation to the money that we in a broad conciliation circle, where DF is also included, have given to the field of education, one takes among other things. well over 33 million again. kr. to the professional training of teachers. You take, for example. 24,3 million kr., and these are actual figures I have in a form from the Ministry of Education. Is this how the DF will conduct policy, and is it aware of the figures in DF and of the fact that it is actually quite clear that young people, children in education and teachers are being taken from them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104431	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104432	I think it is as if we are trying to distort a debate here about the fact that we are going to set aside some funds to strengthen dignity in the area of the elderly. We want a new mindset and a new culture to be set in motion. We have done so, that we have just listened, some organisations which I attach great importance to what I am saying. It is Danish Nursing Council, FOA, Elders Case etc., and this is what has been an explicit wish. It is not, of course, a question of removing anything or saying that we will not give to other areas anymore. But for the Danish People's Party, it is just a key issue that we want to strengthen the welfare of the elderly in Denmark, and we want to strengthen that there will be something more focus on dignity. That is what we went into the financial law negotiations with, and we got through that. We're actually really proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104512	Thank you. Sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104515	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that ambition and words on a piece of paper do not only mean that municipalities can raise the level of service in the area of the elderly. It is a relatively simple question and I would just like to hear what the rapporteur has to say about ambition and words on a piece of paper in itself raising the level of service in the area of the elderly in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104540	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104541	Ambitions count something, papers count something, the will, the third element, I think I count really, really much. And what I see is that there is a will to get started on this, because it will precisely ensure a more dignified care for the elderly in Denmark, and that is what has been the Danish People's Party's • what to say starting point all the way through, that is, how we can ensure better welfare in the area of the elderly and with more dignity. Now we hear that 59 percent. In fact, fearing to grow old in Denmark, it is thought-provoking, and that is why I say that if we do it the way we do now, we are a step in the right direction. We have certainly not achieved this objective, but I am looking forward to following the work that is going to be done now in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104625	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104627	After all, the rapporteur himself referred to the hearing of the Elders case, and the Elders case actually writes in their hearing answer: the framework for care for the elderly in the form of adequate resources, not least the proper standards for qualified staff, is absolutely essential in order to be able to provide decent care for the elderly. I have to say that this is just what I asked the rapporteur on the previous question. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I say that we are in favour of the bill that a demand for a dignity policy can be introduced in the municipalities, but I would just like the rapporteur to consider whether it does so alone or whether the rapporteur agrees with what the Elders case actually writes in their hearing answer and which I have also pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104711	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104712	There is no doubt that with what is now being set aside, there is also the possibility of looking at more warm hands in the care of the elderly. There is no doubt that the lack of warm hands has been the challenge for years, regardless of who has been in government. That is also what we have highlighted in what we have now formulated and which I know the Minister has sent out to the municipalities to secure this area. So there are many elements that need to fall into place, and one does not exclude the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104739	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104742	Thank you. On 19 September, the Chairman of the Danish People's Party told DR News that in the context of the financial law negotiations a guarantee of dignity would be provided. According to him, the guarantee should be that the elderly are entitled to the necessary help for personal hygiene so that they do not sit in a used diaper, the meals should be better, you should be helped to walk and have the opportunity for conversations and presence. That's how DR News reported Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. My question to the rapporteur is: has the Danish People's Party, with the bill we are discussing here, obtained such a guarantee of dignity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104829	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104830	The result of what has been done, I don't think, sir. Finn Sørensen or I can say something about today. What is happening now is that we adopt a policy. We are adopting a bill which will then have to be implemented in the municipalities, and what I have heard from the main organisation, KL, is that you go to this work with interest and that you want to do something. But what it will look like over the coming year is that I cannot stand by and give guarantees for today. But I would like to point out that it is important for the Danish People's Party that there is this dignity, and one way to ensure it is then that the municipalities must document it by setting up a dignity policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104910	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122104911	Thank you. Allow me to interpret the rapporteur's answer in such a way that the rapporteur confirms that such a guarantee has not been obtained, as was demanded as a prelude to the financial legislation negotiations. There is no guarantee of dignity. There is something about the municipalities having to write some policies down on a piece of paper, but there is no guarantee. Now the rapporteur said that there was a lot of listening to the organisations, and one of the organisations that the rapporteur used to listen to a lot is the Danish Handicap Federation. And they say quite clearly that the adoption of a policy of dignity will not in itself help to stop the deterioration that has occurred on an ongoing basis in this area. Danske Handicaporganisations believe that it will be difficult for municipalities to improve the quality of care for the elderly with the priority contribution which the municipalities have been charged to it despite the billion priority given to the area. As a minimum, the policy should be followed up with concrete objectives which specify how the objectives are to be achieved and achieved in practice. Does the rapporteur think that this draft law requires local authorities to set concrete objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105024	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105025	Local authorities are required to draw up a policy of dignity, and that is what we have great faith in. In fact, we have confidence in local self-government in that they can do that, and that's what we have to work on from when we look at this area. I have read the hearing answer, and I have also read what has been written in it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen also mentions. But I have to say that this is also a question of trust and we are trying to set a new culture in motion. I think it is so important that you try to have that approach to the area instead of wearing that negative hat and saying: this will never work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105110	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are first examining the draft law amending the Social Services Act, which deals with dignity policies in the care of the elderly. Today, when we deal with the bill here, it is because the 2016 Finance Act has agreed that Danish municipalities should formulate a dignity policy for the municipality's elderly care. A billion has been set aside. kr. annual, which is the means to support the municipalities' work on dignified care for the elderly, beyond the budgets already adopted by the municipalities for 2016. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that care and care for the elderly is a priority for us in the Left. The elderly must have a secure old age, where being able to cope with themselves as long as possible, stay in their own homes as long as you wish, and in general live an active life with others, young and old, are some of the focal points that help to create the good life throughout your life. Sometimes I see the debate on the elderly as having a tendency to cut everyone off and forget that the elderly are as different as any other population group. People are different, and they have different desires, dreams and expectations, both for themselves and for others. For us in the Left, it is essential that we ensure good opportunities for older people to choose for themselves, for example. nursing home or food service, so that we meet the needs and wishes of the individual and ensure the good life throughout our lives. That something or someone is worthy can be anything from respect, behavior, appearance or reputation, if you read a little in the Danish dictionary. For us in the Left, a dignified care for the elderly is among other things. a care where you relate to areas such as: the quality of life, self-determination, food and coherence in care, but also the question of a dignified death. These are just some of the points that we are now asking the municipalities to address by drawing up a policy of dignity, setting out both priorities and values for personal help, care and care, so that both the elderly and, of course, their relatives know what they are prioritising and consider important in each municipality. We know this from other areas where local authorities are already laying down quality standards, for example. rehabilitation, home nursing or diabetes rehabilitation, yes, there is such a certain diversity of quality standards. I am well aware that a policy of dignity cannot be entirely compared with a quality standard, but I venture to draw the comparison: the quality standard describes the level of service to a greater extent, while the dignity policy is more about values. On the Left side, we would like to make it clear that, when we believe that it is the municipalities that have to draw up the dignity policy, it is because it is the municipalities that are closest to the citizens. It is in the municipalities that you have the best opportunity to prioritize efforts and organise initiatives where the need is greatest and where you best respond to both needs and wishes from, for example. citizens or their relatives. There are many voices in the debate that have a view on how best to organise care for the elderly. From my own municipality and my own life in my municipal council, I know that the local council for the elderly is an active co-player, and I hope that many municipalities will embrace widely, so that as many actors and employees as possible are allowed to contribute actively to the work on dignity policies. There are many municipalities that are doing very well, but we have also seen examples of municipalities where it would be useful to tighten up. Last month, over Christmas, I am sure that most of us saw the sad pictures of Christmas food, which were served to some older ones a piece of rose, where the corners bent up, and a pair of browned potatoes, which seemed to have seen better days; unappreciably it looked like. Do you not think most of us agree that this can be done better? Last month, the Minister for Health and the Elderly presented the latest user survey on home help in their own homes and nursing homes, and there are many positive statements that are worth building on. For example: is 86%. of the residents of Danish care centers satisfied with the personal care they receive, and that is really fine. But there is also room for improvement in some places. For example: There are 30 per cent who do not know about the system of free choice of home help provider, and I would like to see more people aware of the fact that you actually have the opportunity to choose the solution that is best suited to the individual. As I mentioned earlier, people are different, and so are older people. The new dignity policies must be ready for publication on the municipality's website in the first half of 2016 and then re-examined in the first year of each parliamentary term, so that the dignity policies are forward-looking for 4 years. On the left side, we look forward to following the work of the municipalities on the dignity policies and we support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105554	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105558	Thank you, and thank you for a very committed speech. I understand that the rapporteur's concern for the elderly is so great that it almost drifts down the platform. I think that's great. But why have we not listened to the answers that clearly state that if you really want to and want to take care of it, and I think the rapporteur would like to see why have no obligations been imposed on the municipalities? Why has it not been followed by the Elders Case's suggestion that all the places in the bill where it says "should" should be written? A small modest proposal could be that the municipalities should be obliged to translate these dignity policies into an increase in quality standards, so that we do not have to hear all these stories that older people have to be 4 weeks in the same bed linen or many hours in the same diaper. Why has the rapporteur not taken the opportunity to tighten up the obligations of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105712	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105713	I would like to say that I have read the many hearings with great interest. I have welcomed the many positive responses to the consultation, among others. from the FOA and the Danish Nursing Council, and I would like to say that for us it is important that we give the municipalities the opportunity to discuss in each municipality what is a dignified care for the elderly; that you have the talk about food, about a dignified death, about what particular challenges each municipality has. Municipalities are different, and I am sure that there will also be different priorities in the different municipalities. That is where I think it is very important for us here at Christiansborg to give the municipalities the freedom to speak. And they are welcome to expand on the five proposals that we have put forward here with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105806	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105808	I'm gonna get confused now. Because what are we gonna do with the bill? The rapporteur must surely confirm that this freedom exists today for the municipalities. They can just sit down and talk about dignity policies, and they can write it up to 2, 4, 5 A4 pages, they can write what they want. That freedom has the municipalities today, so what are we going to do with the bill? Should we not just face up to the fact that this bill, which is a good one, because it imposes one thing on the municipalities, namely to discuss dignity policy, has no substance in terms of ensuring better care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105850	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105852	I was really delighted that day when we adopted the Finance Act, because in doing so, together with other parties, the government secured a historic boost of 3.4 billion. kr. In the area of health and the elderly. We prioritize the dignity billionaire, as it is called, to give the municipalities exactly the opportunity to discuss what worthy elderly care is, what worthy care out there in the individual municipalities is. We give priority to this by 1 billion. kr., and I think that is actually a small historical event.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105929	Sir. Finn Sørensen. I've asked twice). That's right, that's absolutely right. I'm so glad, sir. Finn Sørensen didn't use it, so thank you for that. It would have been tempting. I would like to thank Mrs Jane Heitmann, and then it is Mr. Heitmann. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122105955	On the other hand, I also demand my right if I have only been allowed to ask once in the brief remarks. After all, it is good that the municipalities are required to draw up dignity policies and publish them on the municipality's website. No one can object to that, including the Enhedslisten, and then you could stop here, because that's all there is in this bill. There should be, and therefore there is reason to say more than that. Despite the fine title, the draft law is no guarantee that we will have a dignified ageing policy in the municipalities. All the municipality needs to do is write an A4 page on dignity policy and publish it on its website. There are no requirements on the content, no requirements on the impact of the policy on better care for the elderly. It's kind of weird. The proposal is, in fact, a purely confession or an expression of distrust of the municipalities, in that it is not something they are talking about today. At any rate, it is an admission that the excellent wordings we have in our Service Act are obviously not enough to ensure dignified care for the elderly. And, unfortunately, neither are they. We all know the many examples of the elderly who must lie too long with the same diaper and in the same bedding; elderly people in nursing homes who stay away because there are not enough staff to keep an eye on them; the many cases where a single employee is left alone in the evening and night hours with 20 or more severely weakened and demented residents. It's not weird, it's like that. In June 2015, Danish Radio's news reported that 5,000 DKK were spent in 2014. less per older than 65 years of age than in 2008. Behind that figure lies, among other things, that more than 5.5 million home help hours have disappeared since 2009. It falls back on all the governments that have been during that period. But unfortunately, it continues. In December 2015, the FOA published a sample survey of 20 municipalities' older budgets for 2016 • savings were planned for the elderly in all of them. This whole discrepancy isn't gonna correct this bill. The municipalities get a dignified billion, as they call it. Of course, but it does not propose to do so when we look at the extent of the deterioration that has taken place. If you really want to make things right, you have to follow the advice, for example. The Alzheimer's Association will be included in their hearing answer where it is very clear that the purpose of the law cannot be met unless the staff have the time to provide the necessary care, care and care. Therefore, at least the so-called dignity billion must be earmarked for increased staffing in the area of the elderly. That would certainly help a great deal, because it would correspond to about 3 000 social and health assistants. If you want to do the work very well, then you have to follow the proposals of the Enhedslisten and earlier also the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party to introduce some rights to the elderly to a minimum of practical help and personal care. And then you have to impose minimum staffing on the municipalities in the nursing homes, so no employee should experience being alone with severely weakened and demented fellow citizens. The least that could be done was to write "Should" all the places in the bill where it says "Should." For example, it would. mean that the municipalities must But even this modest demand is flatly rejected by the government and the Danish People's Party. Instead, they have adopted a financial law which includes cuts in municipal budgets in the coming years of more than 7 billion. kr., just as a saving is included in the deterioration of pensioners' housing benefits, which is, of course, prevented from being implemented right here and now due to vigilant interest groups, not least the Older Case and an effective opposition in this Chamber. My conclusion, therefore, is that this bill is primarily intended to serve as an excuse for the Danish People's Party to contribute to cuts in the area of the elderly. DF does so in a large number of municipalities, and it does so when they vote for the Finance Act, which at the same time provides additional tax relief to shareholders and the business community in a situation where historically large dividends have been paid out to shareholders of more than 80 billion. kr. So it all has to obscure that the Danish People's Party did not meet its requirement for a guarantee of dignity as a condition for voting in favour of this priority contribution. The bill we have here can be used to raise a discussion in the individual municipal council about dignified care for the elderly. I hope that the law will be used for that and that is why we are voting in favour of the proposal. But if it produces results in the form of better care for the elderly, then it is not the merit of the draftsmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110445	Mrs Karin Nødgaard for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110447	Thank you. I had no doubt that Mr. Finn Sørensen's speech would almost sound the way it sounded. Of course, I had hoped that there would have been a little more praise for what this draft law is really about, namely that we should have a policy of dignity in the municipalities. What I really would like to hear from the rapporteur is that the rapporteur is actually saying that we would like to have earmarked what this dignity billion should exactly go to in the municipalities. Does this mean that the Enhedslisten is opposed to the fact that we have municipal autonomy and that, in fact, as has been written in the bill, there are differences in local municipalities as to what priority is to be given? Enhedslisten isn't interested in participating in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110529	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110530	Thank you. Well, now there's no reason to praise anything for a whole lot that doesn't exist in it. That's just what I wanted to clarify in my speech. As far as this is concerned, we are in the same place as the Danish People's Party before the elections, namely that you would like to fight for some rights to the elderly, the right to a minimum of practical help and personal care, and I cannot list it all. Mrs Karin Nødgaard knows you very well. So it is the same place that Enhedslisten stands, as the Danish People's Party stood. And if granting citizens rights is an interference in municipal self-government, then I think we are out in some interpretations of the concept of municipal self-government, which is out of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110619	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110620	I would just like to make it clear that the Danish People's Party has not changed its mind about anything. In fact, we are very pleased that we have entered into a financial law in which we have made some significant impressions, both in the area of health, in the area of the elderly and also in the field of police. It was in fact the three largest areas that we entered into the negotiations with something to do, and we got through that. Having said that, I would like to hear that Mr. Finn Sørensen is not that the five areas now outlined are areas which could actually also need a boost and that there is a need for a cultural change in the municipalities' approach to work in the area of the elderly? Then Mr. Finn Sørensen about the thing with norms and minimums etc., but there we have just heard from several organisations that we should try to look a little more at what they then call relationships rather than, for example, relations. number of minutes, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110709	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110711	Now the rapporteur cannot answer, so I have to say that I understand the rapporteur's answer in the sense that when the Danish People's Party spoke before the elections that the elderly should now have some rights, they should have a minimum right to x number of baths a week • I think that you trumped the Enhedslisten a little there; that's okay, they should have the right to help to come out and go for a walk, they should have the right to change bed sheets, and what else was made of quite excellent demands, then these demands for rights were something you just made with, because you should have some votes in a parliamentary election, because I have not heard a sound about it after the election. And it has not been implemented in the legislative proposal we have here today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110801	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110803	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur recognise that the current government has given priority to health and the elderly by 3.4 billion? kr., which is far more than the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110817	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110819	Yes, I know we have not criticised the government for doing so, but we allow ourselves to deal with the whole of a financial law where there was a much greater potential for giving a significant and lasting boost to the whole of health and the elderly, but that money has been chosen for tax cuts for business and shareholders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110845	Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur, and then it is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122110856	Thank you. The bill obliges the municipal councils to yes, okay, it has been said several times that it is decided on the dignity policies of municipal care for the elderly. The Liberal Alliance feels it is a good thing that there is a focus on dignity in the care of the elderly. The many examples we have seen of how older people are not treated with respect or dignity are not worthy of a welfare society. Unfortunately, we have experienced that older people have not been able to shower, have not been able to go to the bathroom, have not been able to change bed linen or get proper food. These basic conditions should not be anything we are talking about at all. It should be obvious. Fortunately, there are many places where older people have a good life. I just went to the care center Thorshøj. It was a very positive experience. The elderly were very well, and they were well taken care of. They had good and healthy food. The employees were happy, and many had been there for incredibly many years. There was a really good atmosphere at all. I very much hope that you can learn from each other, because if you can do so well in some places, it must also be possible that you can do just as well elsewhere and learn from it. The new older billions focus on dignity, and new policies must be developed focusing on five areas: quality of life, self-determination, quality and coherence in care, food and nutrition and a dignified death. However, time and money have already been spent on drawing up policies in this area in the municipalities, which have drawn up quality standards which also aim for dignity, but which do not reflect the real conditions everywhere. The proposal brings new money, and new plans need to be made. One can be afraid that it will just be additional bureaucracy and even more administration. However, it is my hope that the focus and resources that are now being put into these areas will not only be plans for the sake of the plans, but will really benefit the elderly in the real world, that the elderly will feel an improvement in their everyday lives and that the money will be spent on warm hands, which can be something for the elderly. The elderly must be given the opportunity to continue with the life they themselves want as close to the life they have had so far, as possible and with the greatest possible self-determination. If dignity policies are to create quality and value for the elderly in the real world and not just on a piece of paper, it is important that the municipalities translate it into concrete actions that bring about change in practice. It is therefore also quite right that these policies should be drawn up in the municipalities and not here at Christiansborg. It is the municipalities that are close to the citizens and the current conditions and therefore those who know how to get the most and best service for the money. That is why LA also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111234	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111243	Thank you. This bill has not been easy to take a position on for the alternative, because we have been in a situation where we had to offset some principles against some pragmatism. After all, the legislative proposal is about the municipal authorities being obliged to draw up dignity policies in the area of the elderly, and with the bill comes funding of 1 billion. kr., which is laid down in the Finance Act. And first of all, I would like to add a few words to the economy, because, as I said, this billion is provided for in the Finance Act, which the alternative voted against. The process leading up to the creation of the dignified billion is not a further estimate. First the government swept the old older billions off the table, so the municipalities had to start revising their budgets, then the re-priority contribution came, which meant that the municipalities had to start finding savings more, and eventually this dignity billion came as part of the Finance Act. So you have given with one hand and taken with the other, and we are certainly not enthusiastic about that. So when the government presents the dignity billionaire as new money, we think it is a rewriting of the truth, and it would have dressed the government to be honest that the dignity billion is thus financed by the municipalities' own money. Another aspect which is important to us is the importance of this draft law for the municipal self-government we have mentioned earlier, because with such earmarked funds everything else is being taken into account in municipal self-government and in the municipalities' free right to manage the funds as they see fit. It will always be our fundamental point of departure in the alternative that we should set the public institutions free; in other words, we should leave the professionalism that exists in the public institutions to determine how the funds available are managed. So, basically, we are not enthusiastic about the bill. On the other hand, however, we are now in a situation in which, as a matter of fact, this is not what we have to decide today, because the coining and earmarking of the money have been made as part of the Finance Act. So, although we are critical of earmarking funds for specific tasks in the municipalities, there are several positive aspects to this very bill, which I would like to highlight. We welcome the fact that the government is bringing the discussion of dignity itself into play, because although one can rightly ask oneself what dignity is about which I think there are a great many opinions, and with good reason we are at least forcing ourselves and the municipalities to look at what values are at the root of the care that we as a society offer to those who need it. And precisely the fact that we as a society sit down and consider what values are behind our actions and what values we base our policies on, is very much needed in Denmark in these times not only in the area of the elderly. And I think everyone knows what I'm talking about. We would like to congratulate the government on the choice of the five areas of action. These are areas which, in our optics, have a great deal to do with dignity, and we can also read from it that the government has been inspired by the Elder Commission's report, which came four years ago, and which was a very good report. For example: We welcome the fact that one of the areas is self-determination, because if something is unworthy, it is if, for example, we do so. because of old age or disability is deprived of its right to control its own life. We are also very pleased that the subject of a dignified death is one of the areas of action, because if there is something we need in Denmark in relation to the elderly and in relation to being close to death, then it is to be better at among other things. to talk about it with the elderly themselves. We are not very good at this in our culture. Finally, I would like to raise a few concerns. One is about bureaucracy. Is there an unnecessary amount of bureaucracy coming out of this? I think we should be aware of that. It has been calculated that it costs 7 million. kr. of the billion to formulate the policies themselves. I think we should be aware that the bureaucracy in this is not going to get out of hand, because let us finally spend this billions of dollars, which has also been pointed out to the elderly. My second concern concerns the inclusion aspect, which several consultation responses actually point to. I read earlier this week a discussion paper on this bill which stated that dignity cannot be put on excelark and that dignity for the individual elderly is not just about the elderly themselves, but about the relationship between the elderly and the people and systems surrounding the elderly, and I very much agree with that. Therefore, dignity cannot be defined in relation to the elderly alone, but to a large extent in relation to the relationships of which the elderly are part. And that is why I hope that it will be taken into account when drawing up the policies. The draft law states that it is essential for municipal councils to ensure that local older people's councils are involved, but why is it only essential and not mandatory? For the alternative, there is no doubt that the involvement of relatives and voluntary associations, the elderly themselves and the staff involved in older work should be compulsory. With the special attention given to elements of the draft law on which we can take a critical view, we are generally in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111800	Thank you. Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111804	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm something. But perhaps I should just like to start by thanking you for the positive statements I think I am starting there particularly in relation to the thoughts on relations, which I share with the rapporteur, namely that the good life is very much dependent on the relationships one has. The rapporteur mentions that there is less money. Will the rapporteur not confirm that precisely no less money is available for service in the municipalities in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111839	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111840	When I mention that there is less money, I am thinking of the re-priority contribution. That is what I referred to. With the re-priority contribution, the municipalities will certainly have to save some money in relation to what they have had available in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111851	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111853	Exactly, and that is where I ask: will the rapporteur not confirm that it does not mean less money for service in the municipalities in 2016, and that the government here has raised the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion? kr., and that it is not correct to say that there is less money for service in the municipalities in 2016? Will the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111913	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111915	I would like to confirm that more money has been made available for health and the elderly. I didn't say there wasn't. My concern was with spending in the municipalities in general when they are affected by the re-priority contribution. The mayors out there last year in a survey were asked what the re-priority contribution would mean. All mayors were asked, and 89 percent. of the mayors said that they believed that the re-priority contribution would lead to deterioration of the service, so it is then in my optics a major deterioration in the municipal service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111947	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122111950	Thank you. I do not want to say that I am confused, but I think it was a speech that was, as it were, divided into a lot that was against and a little negative, and saw something that was too. But I also think there is something that I could not really be wise about, and I would like the rapporteur to clarify that. This is in relation to the fact that we are opposed to earmarking some funds for the area, because that is what we think is wrong and goes beyond local self-government. However, would the rapporteur not acknowledge that what the government and also the rest of us, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, are doing with this, is not just to ensure that the funds are earmarked for a policy of dignity, but that, with respect for local self-government, we ensure that we can decide locally what we want to focus on in each municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112042	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112043	Yes, and thank you for the question that I actually think is very important in relation to this debate. That's what I was trying to get into. I am very pleased that the questioner mentions it. In the alternative, we are in favour of freeing public institutions, but it is clear that we will all be in situations where we are passionate about specific areas of action and specific values and attitudes that lie behind what we want. So there will always be some, you might say, trends that we are inspired by. That is also why I tried to say here that, in principle, we are not happy that we are going out and earmarking funds. But we also have respect for the fact that, if you have specific values that bear your policy, you point to them. I have not said specifically in relation to this bill and I think that is also important in this debate that I think it is being tightened too much for the municipalities. In fact, I recognise that the five areas of action are very good, and I think there is a freedom for municipalities to define their policies in the five areas of action as they see fit. So it's basically just a recognition of the actual bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112151	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112153	I'm really glad to hear that. Now I think the rapporteur might have clarified it a little in relation to the speech. So it's really good for a lot of people. I would also like to say that the Danish People's Party is also very concerned that this money is being spent on what it is to be spent on, that is, on dignity, on the relationship with the elderly and not on a lot of bureaucracy. We fully agree with that. Then, of course, there is also what I think is actually clarified in the proposal, namely that local interest groups, for example. Older people's councils and family councils can be involved in formulating this policy of dignity. It's really, really important. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that there is in fact a great need today for more focus on relations, rather than for us to always measure and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112239	I fully agree with that. I could not agree more, and that is also what I tried to highlight at the end. I think it's so good that you focus on relationships. My criticism is that the draft law does not say that it is compulsory for the various parties to be involved. I really would have liked it had been, because I think it should have been. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that instead of going out and detailing, we should focus on relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112304	Thanks to the rapporteur, there will be no further brief comments. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112312	Thank you. We need to think about welfare in a new way. We need to get away from everyone getting the same thing. We are all different, and that is why we must be treated differently in order to be treated equally. We need to get away from focusing on what people can't do and instead help people reach what they can and want and dream about. And we have to get away from seeing the public as equal to welfare. Well, welfare isn't how many benefits you get. Welfare is liberation, and welfare is perhaps most of all the opportunity to be something for someone in communities. I fully share the idea of working with dignity and creating dignity policies. There is a future in that. But it has to be done properly. When we oppose this bill, there are three reasons. Firstly, there is little dignity in funding. I am radically opposed to this exercise carried out by the government in connection with the Finance Act, which forces the municipalities to cut back in order to spend their own money. It is contrary to local self-government that with the re-priority contribution, municipalities are forced to cut back on our day care institutions, our schools and the care of the elderly, so as to be able to take credit for themselves in the Folketing and give some of the money back for the care of the elderly. We didn't do that in the SR government. The money we gave to, for example. More educators were new money that we could afford as a result of the reforms we had made. Secondly, there is little dignity in the process. The ship will be loaded with bureaucracy. The government is asking the municipalities to make a so-called dignity policy within a very short timeframe in order to be able to get this money. It's a screwed-up process that bad can be anything but top-down without much time to involve the people this is actually about. Thirdly, there's not much dignity about looking this up big. You feed the dog with its tail, and the question is whether it doesn't even give less welfare. For not only does the government take the money from the welfare of the municipalities, but the government and the crazy enough the Liberal Alliance demand that there is time to draw up policies. So money must be spent both on bureaucrats to write in the municipalities, and money must be spent on bureaucrats to approve in the state. When is it so realistic that the municipalities get the money? In May, in June, if the applications are going through smoothly. And no one knows if the money will be there next year. So how could the municipalities be able to hire more if they did not get the money until the summer and the money expires again on 31 December? They're practically gonna have to fire people while they're hiring them. It is an unworthy policy of dignity. So the Radical Left cannot support the proposal, but we would very much like to take the lead in the development of a real policy of dignity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112627	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112632	Thank you. It is kind of a temperament question whether you should vote yes or no to it. After all, I share some of the criticism in relation to bureaucracy and things and matters. No, what I was really concerned with was that the rapporteur, just as he said: there is a difference between us and the civil servants here, I guess I have to say by saying that they take and cut down in the municipalities, and then they earmark some of the money. I agree with that criticism. And then the rapporteur said that we did not do that under the previous government. No, but can the rapporteur then confirm that under the previous government it was done so that the money spent on more educators, on an elderly billion, and what else we got earmarked for good things, were some that were taken from the unemployed and the sick because of the reforms that the Radical Left had led: cuts in daily allowances, early retirement, early retirement, flex jobs, sickness benefits, cash benefits. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is what was done under the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112739	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112740	I can confirm that. The money that we put aside for example. Getting more educators in our day care centres was precisely new money that we had in the SR government, because we made reforms, as opposed to what the Left Government is doing now, taking the money from the municipalities in a re-priority contribution, thus requiring them to cut back, in order to return some of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112803	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112805	Well, a great commendation and a great thank you... and that's really honest... for the clear answer. So the short conclusion is that what is the difference between the Radical Left and the previous government is who you take the money from when you have to raise money for initiatives such as this. This is whether you steal them from the municipalities with the consequences it will have for welfare, where it also affects day care institutions and everything, or whether you take them from the unemployed and the sick. So thank you for the clear description of the core content of the Radical Left policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112843	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112844	The difference is exactly between whether you make a change of priority contribution where you take 1%. from the municipalities and force them to cut down in the day institutions, in schools and in the care of the elderly, or whether, as we did in the SR government, you make reforms that both give money in the box, but which also end up providing more welfare. For welfare is not how many benefits you receive; welfare is a liberation. That is why it is also in welfare that it is a matter of getting people into work. And I really hope that Enhedslisten agrees with us that it is better to be in work than to be without work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112921	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122112923	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur say that we need to think about welfare in a new way, and I fully agree with that. S and SF went to the elections at the "Fair Solution" to increase municipal room for manoeuvre by 12 billion. kr., and then what happened under the SR government? In any case, there was no increase in municipal room for manoeuvre by 12 billion. kr. On the contrary, 60 out of 98 municipalities had direct minus growth and spent less money than in 2011. So I fully agree that we need to think about welfare in a new way, namely that what we go to elections is also what we deliver afterwards. The rapporteur says from the platform that the money will expire on 31 December. Where has the rapporteur read it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113011	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113012	In other words, we do not know whether they expire, but we do not know whether the money is there, and that is the problem in the municipalities. If you do not know that the money is there after 31 December, you cannot be sure that you can have people employed. And that is the problem in this: if the money comes sometime this summer and you do not know if you have it after 31 December, how on earth would you be able to hire people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113042	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann for the last brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113047	I simply cannot get a clear answer from the rapporteur as to why the money should expire on 31 December. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to clarify why the rapporteur can have that idea. Where is it written? Where did the rapporteur come from? Is that in the bill? Is that in the Finance Act? That is just what I am asking, and the rapporteur can answer that question. At the same time, the rapporteur can also confirm that there is no less money for service in the municipalities in 2016, because we have raised the bar in relation to the whole area of health and the elderly, we have prioritised 3.4 billion. kr., and this is essentially more than the previous SR government. However, please clarify where it says that the money will expire on 31 December, since the rapporteur raises doubts about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113130-2	But it is only good if the Left and, in a moment, the Minister would like to guarantee that the money will be there after 31 December, because then the municipalities will have a little more work to do. When I and my municipal councillors are in doubt as to whether the money is there, it is because the Left gets this money from the re-priority contribution. We do not know what is going on in the economic negotiations with the municipalities. I hope that the municipalities will oppose and not make an agreement with the government, which will impose this 1% saving on them next year. After all, there is also a discussion about the fact that if there is going to be a change of priority for next year, what is that money going to do at all? There's a lot of bids in the blue block. I can hear that the Liberal Alliance does not necessarily think that the money should go back to the municipalities, but that it should be given for tax relief. So I will use Mrs Jane Heitmann's question to ask the Minister in a moment whether the Minister can guarantee that the money will be there after 1 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113227	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113228	Thank you. The rapporteur talks about the need to think about welfare in a new way. I fully agree with that, but is it a new way of thinking about welfare so that more people are employed so that there will be more hands out in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113246	It will be for some.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113251	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113253	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not agree that welfare can be much different? The dignity and quality of life of the elderly are not necessarily linked to how many warm hands there are. It may be a lot more that you can spend some money on, even if you do not necessarily have them. I have to say that I do not know, but if you do not have the money, you can spend it on something other than warm hands. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113316	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113318	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113322	Thank you. I find it regrettable that the Radical Left does not choose to support this proposal, which is precisely about getting more dignity into the care of the elderly in Denmark. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not possible to recognise and agree that more funds have been allocated now. It is the case that the municipalities that have chosen to preserve the former elderly billion in the area of older people and now have some additional funding, actually have the opportunity to focus on what is called more dignified care for the elderly. Among other things: they can focus on the five points contained in the bill. When you say such things as increased quality of life, more self-determination, quality, coherence, food and nutrition, and also what is called a dignified death, I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that this is something that could be the embryo of the Left of Radicals in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113415	Yeah, I'd say to the end. It could. I also really like the words that have been put on, and I also hope that this is one of the things that we in the Danish Parliament can be together to work on. What is a problem for me as a radical is that this bill is going to result in a very tight process. I can, of course, ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party how many people meet the Danish People's Party, and how many people do you think you can stay out in the individual nursing home, where you discuss these things, or in the municipal council? How much do you think the Danish People's Party is going to involve the people this is actually about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113453	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113455	I think it was the other way around. I would have liked an answer to a question I asked. I didn't need any questions now. I could have had that earlier when I also got questions, but just not from the radical rapporteur. But you could have chosen to do that there. Having said that, I really think that the rapporteur has yet to deal with what Mrs Jane Heitmann has also said. Is it not true that this financial law has actually made it positive that we have had more funds allocated to health and the elderly? In fact, we will now be able to see progress in relation to the time when the rapporteur's party was in government and when we actually saw that it went the other way and we had minus growth etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113531	There I must be the questioner's answer guilty. I just don't know. And that is because I have not seen the latest inventory of where the municipalities choose to cut back. With regard to the re-priority contribution that the government is putting down on the municipalities, which are forcing the municipalities to cut down on our day care institutions, on our schools, on the care of the elderly, I need to see the final figures for where cuts have been made in order to assess whether this ultimately brings less or more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113604	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113608	I would like to ask the rapporteur why the rapporteur says that municipalities are being forced to cut expenditure on day care institutions and schools and care for the elderly. Why is it inconceivable that the administration could be made more efficient? After all, we know from the Productivity Commission what enormous efficiency potential there is in the municipalities if the least efficient municipalities do as the best municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113639	That's right. There are opportunities to do different things. But let's see it. Let us take the discussion when we have the concrete figures from the municipalities. Then, of course, we can take the discussion again, if it is not true that it has ended up as it happens every time the municipalities are forced to cut back, that it is in the day institutions, in schools and in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113701	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113703	But the Productivity Commission has come up with concrete figures. So is the CEPOS. CEPOS says there's 25 billion. kr. to save if the worst municipalities do as the best municipalities. So we have the numbers. So I do not know what figures the rapporteur would like to wait for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113724	One thing is the numbers that are made in a spreadsheet, but the others are the quite real figures of reality in the municipalities. What does the budget look like? Where is it that the municipalities end up cutting down? If it is true that the Liberal Alliance ends up being right, i.e. that the re-priority contribution will not mean at all that a single educator or teacher or a single home helper has been cut away, then I would like to regret it, but I would like to see it before I believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122113806	When we discuss the bill here on dignity policy, it is, of course, linked to the dignity billionaire that the elderly were promised in the context of the Finance Act. That is what today's debate has been all about, because it has not been so much about the specific legislative proposal. I would now like to begin by addressing the legislative proposal that we are actually dealing with, and I would also like to add a few words to the Finance Act, because it seems that there is a great desire to debate it, so we would be happy to do so. In fact, in the specific draft law, I think there are a great many good elements. I think it is good that we want to look at quality of life, self-determination, the quality of interdisciplinaryness and coherence in care, food and nutrition and a dignified death. This is all something on which I think it will be very difficult at all to disagree. Then you can discuss whether this is something that we in the Danish Parliament should tell the municipalities to do. I think that can be a very good reasoning. I would guess that the vast majority of municipalities have already dealt with food and nutrition and a dignified death and quality in home care, otherwise I would say that I would almost be surprised. What becomes the question, of course, is how it should be implemented. Now it is proposed in the bill that this should be implemented by 1 July, and I am quite sure that some academics in the municipalities will come to work, and they will probably be really, really excited about that. I have seen from the SF's point of view no problem with the legislative proposal. I think it is good to have a debate, and I think it will give it out in the municipalities, that is, what a worthy care for the elderly is, and I welcome that. So, on this basis, I can say that we in the SF support that part of the proposal. We don't have to discuss that for so long. But what is of course also interesting is what we want to discuss from the right: this re-priority contribution, which is at the heart of this bill, and that is what ultimately creates the funding we have here with the elderly billion, because that is what we agreed to in relation to the Finance Act. This meant actually less money for children, less money for the sick, less money for the vulnerable, because a large number of places in the municipalities are now going out to find the money, which is now to be paid out when the budget law is to be negotiated. Of course, we can have a political discussion about this. But what may be interesting to look at is what will happen to the elderly, for that is what the Danish People's Party has been very concerned about. Did the elderly leave or didn't they? If we now turn the time back to this summer, there was actually an elderly billion, and it was agreed by the previous government and SF as part of the Finance Act. There was a billion earmarked for the elderly area. So far, so good. What did they do this summer? Well, there you dealt with a municipality agreement in the Parliament's Finance Committee I had the pleasure of attending and who voted in favour? The Danish People's Party did so, among other things. Moreover, there were also some from the red bloc, but leave it in this debate. I think it is thought-provoking that with one hand this summer you could take a billion, and when you have to make a budget law, you can distribute a billion, and now you come jumping and jumping and saying that it has become much, much better. I find it extremely difficult to see this equation: you've taken a billion and then you're giving a new billion, and then you're saying it's gotten a billion better. Either you're wearing blinders or you're doing a big electoral bluff. Honestly, I think it's mostly the last. Further savings are being made, and we know that in the years to come there will be more elderly people, and that is why we can of course ask ourselves whether the current number of crowns for care for the elderly is enough. No, it is doubtful that we will see more elderly people who will need home care because there will simply be more older people in the years to come. That is why I believe that if there are problems with dignity in the care of the elderly, they will probably not be less in the years to come, regardless of whether or not you are making a policy. What one can hope, of course, is that one can help address some of the issues that will of course arise in the coming years, when there will be more elderly people and probably also fewer older people in the care of the elderly, qua that the bourgeois people have decided to make a change of priority contribution. Having said that, however, I think it is actually sensible to draw up a policy of dignity based on how we get good care and care for our elderly, because that is not what has been in the forefront of recent times. It has been more a discussion of how all of us can live, and it is again the bourgeois bloc that has been very concerned about what we are paying in taxes. It should be borne in mind that some of the older citizens we are dealing with here have had their time on the labour market, they have paid their taxes, so now they are ready to basically reap the fruits of the hard work they have done when they were out on the labour market. Perhaps you could also ask yourself what it is like with the municipalities' self-management. Will it be increased by making a demand from the Danish Parliament that a policy of dignity be drawn up? That was the point made by the radical rapporteur. It may not, but, of course, there is reason to do so. One might also ask whether the municipalities have not always had a policy in relation to the best possible care and care. That inventory could be interesting to see, and it may be that we will see it in the coming time. With those words, I would like to say that we are in agreement with the dignity policy, we are somewhat critical of where the money comes from, because this is inextricably linked to the financial law that the bourgeois people adopted just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114314	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114316	Thank you. So, I think, in my speech at least, I was based solely on the legislative proposal, and what the rapporteur started by saying was that nobody had spoken about the legislative proposal itself. I have really listened, and I made a lot of effort in writing my speech, saying that this should be about the bill and not so much about the Finance Act. The fact that I am asked questions about it is another matter. I would like to hear the rapporteur when he is so angry about the fact that whether you have taken or not taken money and something like that is not going to be an area where municipalities can decide locally how they will use the funds so that they can actually improve the area in order to ensure a more dignified care for the elderly. It is, of course, the case that we have set aside some funds. They are earmarked, but locally you can go in and decide what it is you need them for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114412	I think it's fine with a dignity billionaire. I also thought it was nice to have an older billion. I am not sure that it makes a big difference whether it is called an elderly billion or a dignified billion. A billion is still gone a billion. If it's used for the elderly, fine with me. I just didn't understand why you had to cut somewhere before you could figure out how to do the other thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114427	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114429	But now I have at least taken the trouble to try to hear the municipalities, at least some of them, about how they have worked, what approach they have taken to the elderly. And it turns out, in fact, that there are municipalities that choose to keep the former elderly billions, so that a lot can be secured in the area of the elderly, and then you get some extra money from the dignity billions, so that you can get this whole area up-to-date. Is the rapporteur not aware that it is also taking place, so that it is not in fact as negative and black as the rapporteur puts it? We can see in this particular way that local people choose to give priority to one way or another, but of course we want the Danish People's Party to give priority to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114515	I think there are a lot of wise local politicians. I just didn't understand why the Danish People's Party voted this summer to remove the older billion when the action relating to the municipality agreement was discussed. The Danish People's Party then voted to remove the older billion. That answer still blows away in the wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114530	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114533	Will the rapporteur confirm that if the re-priority contribution goes beyond schools, day care institutions and care for the elderly, it is due to a political choice and not a necessity? The former government's Productivity Commission just documented that there is a huge efficiency potential without compromising the service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114555	I think it is going to go beyond the service when there are fewer educators and less educators looking after our children; when there are fewer primary school teachers to look after our children and ensure that they receive the necessary learning in primary school. So I do not share the view that you can simply remove a lot of public sector staff and then the service remains the same. I simply do not believe that. But may I ask Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, who is now bringing this up: if you are very concerned about a policy of dignity in the area of the elderly, should you not also have a policy of dignity for our children or for our schoolchildren? Why has it not been proposed since a policy of dignity for the elderly was now being discussed? Are you not concerned about children and young people from the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114636	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114638	Now I will answer questions when I stand up there. And then it was not I who put the re-priority contribution on the table; it was the rapporteur himself. However, it is a little worrying when the Productivity Commission documents that it can be made more effective, that the rapporteur does not believe in it. I should not rule out the dismissal of teachers instead, but then it must be based on a political choice and not on a necessity. And now that we have more countries in the world that have fewer public employees than Denmark has, and yet a better service, why should it not be possible in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114718	Well, I'd like to say that I almost wish you could do an experiment like this with the Liberal Alliance, but I just wouldn't want to live in it. To be honest, I think it seems a little like saying that now there is such a report that says that some can be removed, and then local politicians have to find out where to remove this money. Because if you ask the Liberal Alliance, it will probably not go beyond welfare. I simply do not believe that we can simply remove billions of dollars, let alone the re-priority billions already decided by this Finance Act, from the municipalities and then say that it will not go beyond welfare. I think most citizens of this country will see that, and I think most mayors will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122114804	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today is, of course, about the design of these dignity politicians, and stop it, where is it an important area, but also a difficult area. I think that I really think it is easier to answer what is unworthy. I think we can all see that. It is unworthy not to be allowed to sleep when you want, i.e. not to be able to go to bed when you are tired, because there may not be any staff to put you to bed. It is unworthy to eat food that is not appetizing in any way and that may have stood too long, it is unworthy not to change your diaper and bathe. It's easy to point out. But what is the dignity? After all, it is individual for every human being. Self-determination is a key word. It was mentioned up here from before, and I think that is a good word in that regard. Of course there is some dignity that is fundamental to everyone, but I myself have had the great pleasure of working in a nursing home, and when I think back to what was dignity there, it could be dignity for one resident to wear her lipstick and nail polish every day, because she had always been a fine old lady who cared a lot about caring for herself. For others, the dignity was to go out into nature, come out the door, and not sit in the room all day long. That is why it is so individual, and it can be difficult to include in politics and strategies, but there are also some common denominators that the municipalities are about to find. Now there has also been some debate about this dignity billionaire thing. I actually saw that the City of Copenhagen yesterday I think it was last night that made a rather broad agreement in the citizens' representation, where you translate your part. Here it is pointed out that it will mean 120 extra full-time positions, warm hands. One of the things you want to do is... As a matter of priority, there must be more people at work during evenings and weekends, because that is where major problems have been experienced. It extends the clipboard model for home dwellers and gives older people the opportunity to have the extra time of their own, depending on what it is, there is dignity, what it is that provides quality for them. I think that is a very good initiative, and several municipalities will have to do this exercise. We fully support this bill. I would just like to say one thing at the end, and that is that I actually think we are a little short of families in this discussion. I believe that our nursing home staff are doing a fantastic job, but we must not forget that as families we also have a responsibility. It's not that I'm in any way saying it's the family that's going to change diapers or anything like that, that's definitely not what I'm arguing for. But the family can be suppliers of much of the other, which gives dignity. It could be a walk in nature or something. There have been some private Dutch nursing homes who have been experimenting with this in entering into contracts with families when the elderly go to nursing homes, and it almost completely turns in me when I hear about it, in order to put family responsibility on contract is something so terrible. The reason they have done so is because they have felt the need to clarify that all responsibility cannot be left to the staff of the nursing homes. We also have a human responsibility, and no matter how good a nursing home we get, they will not be able to replace a granddaughter who comes to visit and sits and holds hands. Well, it's hard, I guess. So I think that's an important element too when we have this talk. But we look forward from the conservative side to seeing the municipalities' various proposals for dignity politicians, and we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115159	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115200	Thank you to the rapporteur for an interesting speech in many ways. I think the rapporteur needs to read a little more about this with the Netherlands. What I have found out about the Dutch model is that before you can get at all, for example. Some home help, the Dutch municipality would like to hear how much cleaning the elderly's son is going to do. And that is included in the municipality's offer. So I guess it's just a saving exercise. But otherwise we agree that we should not write contracts for this sort of thing at all. I think that's just some other motives. I think the rapporteur provided some very good examples of what dignity is. I also fully agree with the rapporteur that it is very individual what is actually perceived as an elderly citizen and a home care provider. But would it not be a good idea for the rapporteur, together with the Enhedslisten, to fight to spread this clipboard? Because that gives the citizen the freedom to say for himself: I would like to go to town or I would like to have half an hour's extra home help. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115313	In relation to the Dutch nursing homes, I would say that what I was talking about was a number of private nursing homes. I'm not sure it's the same, sir. Finn Sørensen and I are talking about this, but maybe we can discuss it later. But, as I said, it's the private people I'm referring to. In fact, in relation to this rock map model, I think it is fine that local authorities have the opportunity to give priority to and say: where are we facing the greatest problems? Is it important for us to increase the manning in the evening so that there is not one guard to cover too many in a nursing home? Is that where the shoe prints with us, or do we have the opportunity to expand the cutting-card model? I think it's fine that the municipalities get the freedom to choose, which they do with dignity billions and with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115356	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115357	Thank you. Yes, but I came up with the idea of discussing that rock card with the rapporteur when the rapporteur very strongly stressed the importance of the right of the elderly to self-determination. And when I look at this bill, I can see that there is absolutely no guarantee of more self-determination. Then I just thought that I would confront the rapporteur with a tool that could really give the elderly some self-determination in relation to care for the elderly. And that's to equip them with this clipboard that allows for x number of half or full hours, which you can then use at your choice, as long as it's about practical help and personal care. So why not oblige the municipalities to use such a tool? That would, of course, strengthen the right of the elderly to self-determination.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115447	Self-determination is very good. But if I imagine myself being an elderly person who lives in a nursing home where there is very low standards on a Sunday night, then I think I would give more priority to having the security that there were staff to take care of me than that I got an extra cut in the clip. So I do not think it is possible to set out formally what is most important. Basically, I think the most basic must be covered first. But that freedom is granted to the municipalities. And then I would urge the rapporteur to get his municipal political colleagues to go out and fight for the views of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next is the Minister for Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122115529	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate here today. I have to say that we have come a long way, and I also sense that there is positive and very broad support for the fact that the draft law here obliges local authorities to adopt and implement dignity policies for the care of the elderly. On the other hand, I also share several of the wonders expressed by the rapporteurs as to why, for example, the Social Democrats vote in favour of the draft law, while at the same time being so busy criticising it. The Socialist rapporteur said, among other things, that this is more a signal policy than a real policy. If that is correct, then I can ask the question why we are not voting against it. However, I am very pleased that even the Socialists are voting in favour. Then I have also found from the consultation answers that have been received, and many of them have been received, that they are basically very positive and support the legislative proposal here. I am very pleased about this and, of course, I look forward to having a further discussion in committee on the many different opinions on the draft legislation which have also been made known in today's debate. At the same time, however, I would also like to take this opportunity to make a few comments on today's debate. First of all, we in the government are very pleased that together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, we have agreed on a unified model for ensuring more dignity in our care for the elderly. I would, of course, very much like us to be able to bring all the parties of the Danish Parliament into this bill and thus also the significant focus that we are now putting on more dignity in the care of the elderly. After all, when we have chosen to commit municipalities in selected areas, this is fundamental because we believe that care for the elderly is best organised locally. It is the municipalities that know the local conditions, and it is the municipalities that are closest to the citizens. At the same time, it is an important part of the bill that the work in the municipalities is done through an inclusive process. That is why we are calling for local authorities to involve both the elderly council and other relevant parties in the development of dignity policies. That is also why it is not true what the rapporteur from the Alternative said in his speech, because in the order that has been consulted in connection with the bill it says precisely that the municipal council must we want there to be a dialogue in the individual municipality with both the elderly themselves and the people who are daily in contact with the municipality's elderly care. It is they who are closest to being able to give their knowledge and inspiration on what exactly their municipality needs to do in order to create a more dignified care for the elderly. Then I can also hear that some people are concerned about whether we are now making some demands on the municipalities with this proposal. I would like to emphasise here that we are making very specific demands on the municipalities in the draft law. Each city council or municipal council must deal at least with five areas when they make their local dignity policy: quality of life, self-determination, quality, interdisciplinaryness and coherence in care, food and nutrition, and a dignified death. These are key areas which mean that the responsible municipal politicians come around widely when they have to discuss and initiate initiatives for more dignified care for the elderly in their own municipality. At the same time, as I have said, we also call for policies to involve both the local council on the elderly and other relevant parties. It could, for example, be done. be the elderly themselves or their relatives or employees or managers in the care of the elderly. Thus there is also a debate in the individual municipality about what it is that dignified care for the elderly is exactly in their municipality and what it is also necessary to achieve the ambition and vision of a more dignified care for the elderly. In some of the consultation answers and in the debate here today, there are also some specific requests for us to start legislation on this kind of very concrete action. On the other hand, I fully agree with what the rapporteur from the Alternative said, and also with what the Danish People's Party said, namely that dignity cannot be put on a particular formula or put in an Excelark. Dignity is generally about the individual elderly themselves having the opportunity to continue their lifestyle to date, even if the elderly are weakened and need help. It is completely individual what dignity constitutes for the individual. We do not want to make an exhaustive list of all the elements that may affect the dignity of the individual elderly. As I have said, we have focused on five main areas which we consider to be essential and of general importance for dignity in the care of the elderly and for the individual elderly. These are areas that require municipalities to get around widely in discussions about what gives more dignity in the care of the elderly in each municipality. These are, of course, areas where discussions and priorities on virtually all aspects of more dignified care for the elderly can be included. And I guess it's a minimum requirement as to which areas the municipalities should be.In addition, the municipalities or the municipal council can of course choose other areas for. Then it is clear in today's debate that it has also come to be about the economy and the level of service provided by the municipalities in the area of the elderly. That is why I would also like to make a few comments on this subject. First of all, allow me to put down the myth that the municipalities have received less money for service in 2016. The fact is that with the Economics Agreement and the Finance Act 2016 we have lifted the services of the municipalities. I would also like to allow myself to put down the myth of the Alternative that the government should have removed the older billion. That is not correct. On the other hand, I am delighted that even the Socialist rapporteur is helping to confirm that this is not the case. The dignity billion comes on top of the older billion. I would also like to take this opportunity to put an end to the error of the radical rapporteur. So the dignity billion is not due to expire on 31 December. That's just bullshit. This is a lasting boost, which means that there are also 1 billion. kr. additionally a dignity billion in 2017 and 2018. etc. It's a lasting boost. All in all, with this year's financial law, we have given priority to health and the elderly by 3.4 billion. kr. extra in 2016. This is certainly a priority that goes beyond the priorities of the previous government. Then I would like to make it clear that it is the individual municipal council that is responsible for ensuring that older citizens receive the help they need. Unemployment policies should describe the overall values of care for the elderly, and, as mentioned above, individual municipal councils should address at least five key areas. In practice, the policies of dignity will certainly be based in many places on the existing policies of the elderly, which you have in a great many municipalities. Thus, the municipalities are not on bare ground and are about to reinvent the deep plate. It's about building on top. The draft law here does not alter the existing rules on annual quality standards, as some have also mentioned. In quality standards, the municipal council must determine the level of service for home help, rehabilitation courses and municipal training. Quality standards are typically quite specific descriptions of how often aid is given and what aid involves and, of course, local authorities should have their dignity policy in mind when defining their quality standards once a year. But dignity policies have a more general and broader aim than quality standards. A policy of dignity can, for example, be achieved. In one municipality, the upgrading of nursing home staff or the development of skills in the care of the elderly is reflected in the upgrading of nursing home staff. If you work in a municipality to create more coherence in care, then the dignity policy can also result in changing the workflows in the municipality to ensure it. Neither will necessarily be reflected in quality standards, but it will mean something to those who are involved, namely the elderly themselves. As we have also mentioned in today's debate, the draft law is not alone. Together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, the government has set aside 1 billion. kr. extra annually on the Finance Act to help municipalities ensure a more dignified care for the elderly. It's funds that complement this bill and that the municipalities need to strengthen the municipalities' work with a more dignified care for the elderly. Each municipality gets a share of the dignity billionaire, and the distribution of funds has already been announced to the municipalities before Christmas. It is my general impression that a great many municipalities have already got off to a good start, and many have started the engaging process with both senior councils and other relevant parties. My hope, as Minister for Health and the Elderly, is that the municipalities will use the welfare policy to set their ambitions high in order to develop care for the elderly, create a new agenda for a more dignified elderly life and a more dignified care for the elderly. Here and now, as I said, I look forward to the further discussions we will have, and I hope that we can have a broad support for creating a more dignified care for the elderly, although I have noted that a few individual parties have at least one say that they intend to vote against. But thank you for all the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120543	There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120546	Thank you. I really admire the Minister's ability to speak very, very long and very broadly about very little, because there is not much in this bill. Will the Minister confirm that the old-age billion introduced by the previous government is gone? It has disappeared into the block subsidy, which means that there is no longer any obligation to spend it billions in the area of the elderly. As far as this bill is concerned, the Minister says that it will ensure more dignity in care for the elderly. Will the Minister confirm that the only obligation for the municipalities in this bill is to write down some dignity policies in cooperation with the interest groups that have been mentioned? There is no obligation for these policies of dignity to be translated into concrete improvements in the care of the elderly. Will the Minister confirm that this is the content of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120648	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten admires the Minister. I think that's nice. Then I can tell you that the older billion isn't gone. The retirement pension has been converted to the block grant at the request of whom? The municipalities themselves. And that is why, when we had a full consultation on this subject, I was also glad that even the Socialist rapporteur on the elderly confirmed me as Minister for Health and the Elderly that the older billion is not gone. It is distributed in a different way. And now there's a dignity billion on top of it. What specific changes will then take place in the individual municipality on the basis of a dignity policy in the individual municipality? After all, none of us in this Chamber can give that answer today. Why? Because it is, of course, the individual municipality that has to draw up a policy of dignity in cooperation with the local council for the elderly and other relevant parties. It could, for example, be done. be the elderly themselves and the next of kin. And there I think we will see something different in relation to where it is the municipalities' priorities. In the City of Copenhagen, I think it was the Conservative rapporteur who mentioned using their share of the dignity billion in several warm hands. Elsewhere, you want something else. And I think we should respect that, because it is precisely at the heart of this, that is to say that we respect the fact that it is the individual municipality, the individual elderly themselves, who knows where the shoe prints the most, and thus where there is a need to do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120819	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120820	Thank you. The elderly billion which the previous government introduced, in cooperation with the Left, earmarked funds for the elderly area. The earmarking is gone; the older billion is put into the block grant, and the municipalities can use it for whatever the hell they want. Would the Minister please confirm that fact? As far as the second discussion is concerned, it is striking that the Minister is talking about great ambitions, but it has not even had the real natural ambition to impose on the municipalities that the dignity policies must translate into concrete improvements, which the municipalities can then decide for themselves what to be and which should be included in quality standards. Then a small step further had been taken in a commitment. However, there is no obligation on the municipalities to translate these policies of dignity into concrete improvements. Would the Minister please confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122120919	It is true that the older billion was created in a previous financial agreement with the Left under the previous government. At that time, the Enhedslisten would not take responsibility either. So it is true that there was an ageing billion together with the Left. On the other hand, it's not a fact that it's gone. The retirement pension has been converted and distributed via the block grant at the request of whom? The municipalities themselves. And that is also why I am saying that I acknowledge that the Socialist rapporteur has also helped to confirm that what some people find exciting to keep saying is not correct. What, then, are we obliging the municipalities to do? I can see from the President that it has to be very brief. We oblige them to make a policy of dignity. I'll give you $1 billion. kr. to support it, and whether to use it for warm hands, to expand the cutting-card model or something quite different in the individual municipality, is up to the individual municipality to decide together with the local senior council and preferably by involving other relevant parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121020	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121023	Thank you. After all, the Minister has brought me into the debate a few times, and I would like to make it clear here that, when I have said that the former elderly billion has been changed, it is because it has been changed and put on the block subsidy. But would the Minister not also acknowledge here that she also had to acknowledge it at the consultation meeting that it actually means that there are a number of municipalities, even quite a lot of municipalities, which have lost money on the fact that it has been reorganised? So, as I remember the figures in my head, it is the case that the City of Copenhagen earns 48 million. kr. on this change, and that a lot of the smaller municipalities are actually losing on it. So sometimes it's a game of words. I recognise that the elderly billion has been converted to the block subsidy at the request of the KL, but can I have the Minister confirm that this actually means that the elderly billion has been distributed so over the block subsidy that very many municipalities have lost money in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121116	Well, I am glad that the Socialist rapporteur once again confirms that the older billion is not gone. It's changed. It was the Socialists who had called me for a conciliation where it had been said on the consultation issue that it was gone. And when the Socialists appeared in the conciliation, they said: No, no, it is not gone, it has been changed. That is why I would like to sign that it is absolutely clear, including for the Socialist rapporteur. It has happened at the request of the municipalities that it was reallocated and distributed according to the block grant. The block grant has a different key to the older key, and this means, for example, that here in the metropolitan area where we are, a municipality like Hørsholm Municipality gets a little less, whereas virtually all the municipalities in the western region in return get a little more. But I should also like to hear criticism from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament about this. I'm just wondering. It was at the request of the municipalities themselves, and you usually say that we should listen to them. As I said, some people get a little more and others get a little less. At this point, not a single crown is taken away. On the other hand, there is now a dignified billion on top of it, which is distributed according to the key to the elderly. And that takes account of the very concern that I also understand that the Socialist rapporteur is concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121225	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121227	In the world I find myself in, you can sometimes talk about manipulation. I'm not gonna keep it that way. I don't think the Minister and I will ever agree on this. I am trying to explain what is going on in the real world, and then the Minister can bring Hørsholm and everything else. But in fact, it is the case that, for example, there is a difference between the two. On Funen there are no municipalities other than the City of Odense, which have actually received extra money for the elderly area after the block subsidy has been converted. However, I have actually tried to contact some municipalities, and my second question is on the agenda now, the Minister has mentioned it several times today, and I do not think I could read it anywhere. I would like the Minister to confirm here today that if you want to use the older billion in the municipalities to increase staffing on night shifts, for example, you can do so with this dignity billion. At any rate, there are doubts about this in the municipalities, and I would say that I also find it difficult to read what exactly the municipalities can actually use this dignity billion for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121328	That is the real world to which I referred. And with the conversion of the former older milliard, the municipality of Hørsholm gets a little less, where in turn the western municipalities get a little more. Then I note that the Social Democrats think it is wrong that the municipality of Hørsholm gets a little smaller and the western municipalities get a little more. This is so opposed by the Social Democrats, but it is the result of the wish of the municipalities that it should be converted to the block subsidy. Now you get a dignity billion in addition, which is distributed according to the elderly key, which also takes account of the municipalities on Funen quite broadly. On the question of whether the money from the dignity billionaire can be used to increase the manning of the night, the short answer is: yes, if that is the priority of the individual municipality. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121413	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121416	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister when the municipalities can expect the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121423	It depends to a large extent on the length of time each municipality has to prepare its dignity policy. We announced in advance here before Christmas what share the individual municipality has in the dignified billion, so that we can now start planning what we want. I sent a letter immediately after the adoption of the Finance Act to start drawing up dignity policies already now, although this law has not been adopted, but in the hope that there will be 90 mandates behind this bill. In the feedback I get from municipalities, I can, for example. see that Nyborg Municipality is holding a citizens' meeting here on 4 February, where one will discuss the linguist when it comes to self-determination, nutrition and a dignified death. There are representatives from the Older People's Committee, the Older People's Council, the Older People's Court, etc. etc. In the municipality of Elsinore, citizens' meetings and events have also been started, etc. There is a broad involving process going on in the municipalities now here. So you can say, when is the last time you have to be done? You have to do that this summer, but you can easily be done sooner if you do it sooner, so it is a little up to the individual municipality. But the individual municipality already knows what proportion of the dignity billionaire it gets, so you have the certainty and certainty of that, but that requires a policy of dignity first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121534	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121536	I would also like to ask about the duration of this, because what is the status of the elderly billion if there is no re-prioritisation contribution to next year, for example. by the municipalities opposing and concluding an economic agreement where it is concluded or, for example, if: The Liberal Alliance insists that the money should not go back to the municipalities, but should be spent on tax cuts? So what's the status of the older billion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121602-2	The status of the elderly is that it was there last year, it is also there this year, and it will be there next year as well. Today we are discussing a bill on dignity policies. To this there is a dignified billion which lies on top of the older billion referred to by Mrs Lotte Rod. And it is therefore a lasting boost, so it is not true, as the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech, that it will then expire on 31.12. There is a dignity billion in 2016, and it is also there in 2017, 2018, 2019, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121634	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor at all, and that means that the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121654	The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122121712	It is an unfortunate matter when a conflict between two parents ends in the way that one parent abducts the child abroad. I think that is the worst nightmare for most of us in connection with a divorce. It is unfortunate for the parents, but it is particularly unhappy for the child, who is in the midst of an intense conflict with the parents and who is even torn up with a mess and taken to another country. In these situations, as a society, we have a responsibility to provide the necessary help which can help to resolve the conflict as gently as possible so that the child can return again. Cases of international child abduction are often very, very complex, and therefore the legislation must be designed in such a way that the Danish authorities can help parents in all these situations. In this light, it is necessary to adapt the system that we have now, so that, for example, it can be done. the country to which the child has been abducted shall not be decisive for legal aid. The bill we are discussing today contains several parts. Firstly, this means that the parent who sits back in Denmark can get help in more situations than in the past when he tries to resolve the conflict and bring his child home. As the law now stands, the state can support with legal aid, but legal aid mainly covers expenses of a legal nature and only to some extent costs of, for example, conflict mediation. This bill corrects this, and it is very reasonable that the time of mediation is usually a much better tool for settling a conflict than for hiring a lawyer and going to court. In other words, conflict mediation can often prove to be the most gentle way of resolving the conflict, thus creating the best starting point for the child to have association with both his parents in the future. Secondly, the bill means that there will be an opportunity to provide financial support for the child's return journey, which helps to help parents with a very large financial burden. Finally, and thirdly, the draft law allows support to be given to other costs deemed necessary for the return of the child. I have also read the answers to the hearings and can see that the consultation parties across the board, in fact unanimously, agree with these changes and that, overall, it is believed that it improves the legal position of the child. In this way, I believe that, overall, we will come up with a solution that puts children in a better position to resolve the conflicts that have ended up being abducted by one parent. We have a very long stretch to go if we are to be able to deal with divorces, both across national borders and also in Denmark, and this is a small but very necessary step in the right direction, which is why the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and also say on behalf of them that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122004	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122014	Last week we discussed a proposal to amend the parental responsibility law and the part dealing with cases where one parent kills the other parent and what happens afterwards to custody. Several of us rapporteurs said that this is legislation that we need to look at in the light of fortunately few but very tragic events. Today we also have a proposal on the agenda that affects relatively few people. We need to consider a proposal to improve conditions in the area of child abduction when one parent chooses to abduct a child or more children to a country other than the country where the child normally lives. So this is 35-40 cases a year. It may not sound like many things, but each case is serious because it interferes in different ways with the child's life and everyday life. This is a situation which is often very conflicting and in time, which goes from abduction to intervention, there can be such marked changes for the child that it will be difficult to restore it. In 2013, we made a broad political agreement in this area and decided to set up a coordination unit, which has subsequently been an improvement in the area, especially because fewer people are involved in the matter, and act as the main responsibility for coordinating efforts between relevant authorities with the aim of contributing to a quick and gentle solution, which, of course, must be of benefit to the child and parents. It turns out, however, that in these abduction cases there is a need to increase flexibility in the application of the legal aid system. This is especially because there are many different legal systems that need to be dealt with and that in some places there is a need to provide legal aid outside the courts and without judicial mediation. Mediation is something that I think is very important to focus on, because in several cases it is preferable, because it can actually be conflict reducing and more than a judgment counteracts disagreements in the long term. Therefore, the Danish People's Party considers it obvious that the proposal also envisages the possibility of using conflict mediation outside the public system if it is considered relevant for the return of the child. When a child is abducted, there will subsequently be expenses in connection with the proceedings and a return. As we heard from the previous rapporteur, the proposal calls for financial support to be given to return home, and that is an option which does not exist today. Therefore, the Danish People's Party supports that the legal aid scheme is adjusted so that it also includes non-legal measures to bring children back to Denmark, and that this is done in a way that corresponds to the system in the country where the child is abducted. Of course, we do so on the basis of the conviction that, despite the serious experiences a child has experienced, it is with the child's best interests in mind that a decision is taken and that it is done as quickly as possible, so that it does not drag on, because there are many bodies involved, or that there may be some financial considerations that make it not the best for the child. It is, of course, with this in mind that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122330	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122335	Let me begin by saying that I am giving the speech today on behalf of the Social and Internal Affairs Rapporteur of the Left, whose child is unfortunately ill, so he could not be here himself. Thank you for understanding. Child abductions are deeply unhappy, primarily for the child, who is deprived of association with his father or mother. If a child is to return, it requires cooperation with the authorities of the country to which the child has been abducted and the parent who abducted the child to be located. These cases are never easy, but often conflict mediation can produce good results. A voluntary return will be the best starting point for the child. In addition, conflict mediation has the advantage of dampening conflicts between parents, as opposed to legal proceedings. Fewer conflicts between parents make future cooperation on parenthood easier. However, the advantages of conflict mediation must always be compared with the fact that it is of course also in the child's interest that a child abduction case should not delay. In many countries, however, there is no conflict mediation at all in the public domain, and it is not possible, under the existing rules of the law, to provide legal aid for expenses which are not of a legal nature. Thus, the surviving father or mother cannot be covered by legal aid for private conflict mediation in the other country, since only public expenditure can be covered, nor can legal aid be granted for quite other necessary costs, such as: travel expenses incurred by an accompanying person or the costs of finding out specifically where the child is located. To ensure that more children can return home, this bill proposes making the rules more flexible so that more types of expenses can be covered by legal aid. If the bill is adopted, conflict mediation will be supported in the future, even if it does not take place in court. It will also be possible, in exceptional cases, to provide support for reasonable costs for the return of the child or a companion, and support for other reasonable costs, for other actions necessary for the return of a child. It is also only in very specific cases and after a concrete assessment that the aid can be granted. For example, it may be the cost of locating the child. For the sake of good order, I should also mention that the conditions for obtaining legal aid at all must continue to be met. For example, if you are covered by legal aid insurance, you cannot recover your expenses. All in all, the bill will provide better opportunities for bringing an end to child abduction, and in the Left we expect all parties in the Folketing to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122623	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122631	As several speakers have pointed out, it is an indescribably difficult situation which must be faced emotionally, practically, legally and financially if your child has been abducted abroad by the other spouse, and I think that it is extremely difficult to understand this situation if you have not experienced it yourself. I will certainly not try to claim that I can, because it must be very violent. At the same time, it is extremely devastating for children, not only the fact that parents have split up, but the more violent the conflicts are, the more violent the experience is for the child. So there is no doubt about that, and that is what goes on in all the work we do with the Parental Responsibility Act... that the best thing for the children is if we can bring down the conflicts and get agreement as quickly and as smoothly as possible. There is no doubt that legal decisions and processes may be such objectively and from the point of view of justice may be the best, but when it comes to the child and a desire to step up conflicts, such processes are certainly not very good. Several people have explained what this bill is about. After all, it is a question of being able to support parents whose children have been abducted abroad better than we can today, and that we can also give more support to conflict mediation in the private sphere, and also in other forms than we may be used to here at home, because such situations also cross cultural divides. I will say nothing more than that it is a very, very good proposal. This comes with time in relation to our focus on resolving conflicts as quickly as possible and putting the child at the centre, and this is foresight, because we are also living in a global world where, unfortunately, conflicts will become more and more cross-border. So praise the government and support from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122839	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122122854	Thank you. After all, this bill aims to improve the instruments available in cases of return of children abducted from Denmark to other countries. As the other speakers have said, it is a terrible tragic situation when a child is abducted by a parent, and this must of course be regarded as an expression of a very conflicting relationship between parents. I can't understand how you must feel as a parent if your child is abducted to another country. Nor can I understand how you must feel as a parent when you make this extreme decision to abduct your child to another country, and I cannot understand how traumatic it can be for the child. In the Liberal Alliance, we share the Government's desire to improve the system so that it becomes more gentle and effective to have a kidnapped child brought back. It is, of course, on the sole grounds of consideration for the child, where our opinion is that it must be right that the child is in his homeland and in his familiar surroundings, while deciding who the child will live with in the future. The Liberal Alliance therefore wants to ensure that the necessary tools are available in order to bring a child back safely and safely. At the same time, we note that among other things. Both the Council of Lawyers, the Children's Council and Danish Family Attorneys support the proposal with reference to the fact that it actually benefits children's legal status, and therefore the Liberal Alliance can support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123020	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123030	I will be brief, both because other competent rapporteurs have certainly described this matter very, very well and because it is quite simple, although it is also important. The bill will improve assistance in cases where children have been abducted to another country by one of the parents. The proposal will do this by supporting the possibilities of conflict mediation, by also supporting private conflict mediation between parents in such a case. In this way, there is a greater chance of resolving such a case without it going to court. That, of course, supports the alternative. In addition, the draft law also allows for e.g.: to support the return of a child if a case has been resolved or decided to return the child to Denmark. We support that too. So all in all, the alternative is really welcoming this proposal and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123138	Abduction of a child by a serious act, both because it can be dramatic for the child, but also because it is an expression of a conflicting relationship between the child's parents. The child is suddenly taken out of its safe and accustomed environment and brought to a new environment without any decision on the future of the child. The child is even put in a situation where one of the child's carers takes such a drastic step as to cut off the relationship with one parent. This proposal is based on the needs of the child in relation to a custody dispute. When several different legal systems across countries are involved, this process can be complicated and therefore flexibility and help are needed. Conflicts are settled legally, but the best thing for the child is if the parent's conflict can be escalated, and solutions can therefore be found in the widest possible consensus and voluntaryness of solutions based on the child's needs. That's why this bill improves and expands the possibility of conflict mediation. Better legal aid is also provided for the surviving parent and, in some situations, to cover the costs of return and return. The proposal improves the legal status of the child in particular. The consultations are therefore only positive and the draft law is in line with the Hague Convention. The SF can support the bill, which follows on from the political agreement reached by all parties in the Danish Parliament in 2013 on the strengthening of efforts in child abduction cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123322	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The last in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123332	Today we are discussing a bill to improve the possibilities for ensuring that children who are abducted abroad return home. In 2003, a special legal aid scheme was adopted to cover the reasonable costs of child abduction, for example. Legal advice, conflict mediation, translation of documents, etc. And that was good. However, this proposal does well and also corrects some shortcomings. For today, the use of conflict mediation can be particularly relevant in countries that have not joined a convention cooperation, and it is therefore not advisable to start a trial. Here, a process of conflict mediation between the opposing parties may be much preferable and perhaps also one of the only options. However, some of the same countries which have not acceded to the conventions do not have public or legal dispute mediation, as the law prescribes, and so conflict mediation is within the private sphere. The proposal means that conflict mediation will now be able to take place on a private basis, and we welcome that. To this end, the draft law provides for the possibility of providing financial support for the return journey, which has not been possible in the past, and we naturally welcome that part too. Generally speaking, this provides better tools to help ensure that children can safely and gently return to Denmark again. That is why the Conservative People's Party can endorse the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123450	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123500	Let me thank you for a very precise and very effective discussion of this bill. As several speakers have said, it is clear that it is extremely conflicting to be in the situation where a child is abducted by one parent. In order to be able precisely to support good solutions in these very, very unhappy situations, it is important that we have access to support for the surviving parent here and therefore for the child, who has the necessary flexibility in relation to the various legal systems with which we must cooperate in such a situation. So I am very grateful for the broad support that appears to be for this bill and can say that that support will hopefully mean that the proposal can be adopted and enter into force on 1 June 2016. So thank you for the debate. I look forward to the continued examination of the draft law in committee and, of course, make myself available if there are any further questions or comments on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123613	At least that is not the case at this moment, so thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor at all, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. And if no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123655	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 26 January 2016. First of all, we go to the explanatory statement of the question, and it is, of course, given by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123659	Thank you. Here we are again, I almost said. I think this is the third time in a 7-8 year that I have raised this question debate. And nothing really happens. It's the same as it used to be. After all, this question has been raised on the basis of another report by Greenland's Spokesman for Children, but if it had only been the question, one could naturally expect that Greenland's autonomy and the Greenlandic municipalities themselves would get to grips with and get to grips with the situation. But it's not a single swallow. These appalling children's cases continue only year after year and decade after decade, as if nothing has happened and with the same desperate explanations from Greenlandic self-government and the Greenlandic municipalities. Let me remind you that in 2009 we had the last question on the subject, F 26, and that there was also a promise on the part of Greenland that the Danish Parliament, like today, was completely paralysed. New shocking reports and newspaper articles appear again and again, and self-government and before home government promises that a lot has been done and that something is happening now. Then the matter will be quiet for a while until the next dedicated journalist reveals new terrible conditions for the Greenlandic children, or until the next official report appears. Then the matter will be settled again, and now a new report in which exactly the same things are rolled up. I will document here from the platform later on what has happened in just the last 10 years, that is, from 2006 until now. I could easily go back another 10 years and 10 years back to 1986, if it were to be, and one could do the same review of the same sad examples, with reports of sexual abuse, abuse and drunkenness and drug problems and many, many cases of children starving. They live in the kingdom, they are Danish citizens, but self-government and before the home-controlled ability is clearly not able to solve the problems. That's why the government has to take action. It is the government's obligation, and that is because Denmark has signed the United Nations Children's Convention on behalf of the whole Kingdom, and therefore also Article 19 of the Convention, which clearly describes the obligations to children. It is my purpose today, as it has been with previous questions years ago, that the government should now assume the overall responsibility and see to it that aid is given to the neglected Greenlandic children. Otherwise, we'll just be back here in five years or 10 years or 15 years. It is very distressing, but I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122123943	Then we got the reason for the question and then we get the answer from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122124011	Today's inquiry debate is about vulnerable children and young people in Greenland, and the question contains two parts. On the one hand, we are asked to take stock of the situation of vulnerable children and young people in Greenland and, on the other hand, to ask specifically how the government will continuously ensure that the UN Convention on Children is respected by the Greenlandic authorities. Greenland's autonomy has taken over a number of key areas that have a bearing on the everyday lives of the Greenlandic people. The responsibility for the legislative and executive power and the financial responsibility in the areas taken over therefore lies with Greenland's Self-Government. And that is also true in the social field. On June 21, 2009, the Law on Greenland's Self-Government came into force. The Self-Government Act thus replaced the Greenlandic Home Rule Act, which entered into force in 1979. The Self-Government Act was adopted by all parties of the Folketing, except the Danish People's Party. The relationship between Denmark and Greenland is based primarily on the self-determination of the peoples. The preamble to the Law of Self-Government states that it is recognised that the people of Greenland are a people under international law with the right to self-determination. The law is therefore based on an agreement between the self-government and the government as equal partners. Cooperation in the social field between the government and self-government thus takes place within the framework of the Self-Government Act and on the premise that the social area has just been taken over by Greenland's Self-Government. Regardless of the formal division of responsibilities, I am of course deeply concerned to both read, hear and experience the social problems for children and young people who also exist in Greenland. The children's speaker's travelogue paints a gloomy picture of life in the settlements for many children and young people. We also know from other studies and reports that many children and young people live in families suffering from social problems, and this is a situation that is very worrying. I have been informed from Greenland that there is no overall official quantitative data on the conditions for children and young people at risk. During the late years, however, a number of studies have been carried out on Greenlandic children and young people. In the spring of 2015, the SFI produced a comprehensive report on young people in Greenland, their lives, their experiences and their thoughts with a special focus on sexuality and sexual abuse. The study shows that a large proportion of young people have been subjected to sexual abuse. Significant negative effects on sexual abuse are documented. This applies, among other things, to: early and large consumption of alcohol, early pregnancies and births, again education after primary school, low satisfaction with life and poor self-conception. In addition, there are others. the travel description from September 2015 prepared by the Greenland Children's Spokesman on the conditions in two cities and sixteen settlements in the northern municipality. The report is based on interviews and meetings with approx. 1,300 children and 61 citizens' visits. According to the child speaker, the report shows worrying conditions, especially in the settlements. The child speaker writes that the challenges include: is a lack of response to citizens' representations to the authorities, that so-called gift children are accepted and that this leads to doubts about custody. It also describes the lack of leisure activities, the experience of hunger among children in the settlements and problems of violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. Overall, as I have said, it must be noted at the outset that there are major challenges in relation to the neglect of Greenlandic children and young people. This is an area that will also require focus and effort in Greenland in the future. And what can we do on the Danish side to help the Greenlandic authorities tackle this challenge? In Denmark, we have a great deal of experience to draw on when action is to be taken with solutions for the benefit of vulnerable children and young people. And much of that knowledge can also be used in Greenland. Therefore, both now and in the past, the Government has offered its help to the Greenlandic authorities. Denmark and Greenland have close ties and a long common history, and as a new social and interior minister was one of my first meetings with my Greenlandic colleague, Martha Lund Olsen. After receiving and reading the travel description from the child speaker in November 2015, I contacted Martha Lund Olsen again and asked the Greenlandic local government member to give an overview of what has happened in Greenland as a follow-up to the descriptions of the conditions for children and young people. At the same time, I asked to hear more about the ongoing efforts that are targeted at vulnerable children and young people. At the same time, I stressed that we in Denmark are of course available with assistance and technical sparring, and in this respect I sought concrete requests from the Greenland authorities concerning assistance. Subsequently, I have received information from Greenland on the measures taken to deal with the problems. A large number of measures have been taken by Greenland to remedy the problems, and I shall now examine them. On 2 November 2015, a new central advisory unit has been opened under the Department of Family, Gender and Social Affairs. The advisory unit offers advice and guidance to municipal managers and case managers in the field of vulnerable children and young people. As a special department of the counselling unit, the children's house Saaffik, which works with coherent interdisciplinary investigation and treatment programmes for children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. In addition, the Greenland Financial Act provided additional funding in 2016 and the budget estimates in order to increase supervision in the social field and especially in the area of children and young people. In addition, the Department of Social Affairs has launched nationwide courses and individual courses in the family consultation model, following positive experience with the method in the municipality of Sermersooq. In addition, the Department of Social Affairs, together with the National Association of Municipalities KANUKOKA, has held national courses on network meetings between parents and bodies working with vulnerable children. In addition, the Landsting at the autumn session 2013 has adopted a strategy and action plan against violence to be implemented in the years 2014-2017. The aim is for the problem of violence to be considered in all efforts aimed at creating well-being, health and social inclusion in society. In addition, a national crisis and treatment centre has been opened in 2015. Professional treatment and support are offered to victims of violence and their children for up to 1 year. Illernit, as it is called, also focuses on the child's well-being and development. Therefore, the center has prepared an overall treatment plan for both mother and child, and the plan also includes post-protection. Greenland's self-government has also established in 2013 a travel team focusing on the treatment of adults with late follow-up after sexual abuse. It was a priority that the fight against sexual abuse should be increased and that existing knowledge in this area should be disseminated to the rest of the country. The aim is thus to offer therapeutic treatment to adults with late follow-up after sexual abuse. Furthermore, the aim is to reduce the risk of their children being exposed to similar sexual abuse and other forms of care failure. I can also mention that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Greenland Self-Government held a joint seminar on late follow-up after sexual abuse in 2015 as part of the recently completed Danish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. In addition, Greenland's Self-Government and UNICEF have concluded a long-term cooperation agreement in 2010 which aims to create the best possible opportunities for upbringing and development for children in Greenland. In 2016, there will be among other things: be established municipal children's council and rights council at all Greenland's schools. In addition, it is possible to apply for grants for a variety of social purposes from the Department of Family, Gender and Social Affairs. Furthermore, I can mention that the Landsting decided in 2015 to bring the Danish parental responsibility law into force. The law strengthens the child's best interests and consultation of the child in matters of custody and association. Furthermore, the law provides for the complete abolition of the right of reproof. The Danish Parliament has just adopted the necessary legislation this week in order to put the law on parental responsibility into force for Greenland. Finally, last week the national government sent a bill in consultation to allow the national government to suspend the administration of the social code under special circumstances. This allows the national government to intervene if there is a significant breach of the municipality's obligations or citizens' rights under the social code. My Greenlandic colleague, Martha Lund Olsen, and her department have also followed up specifically in relation to the northern municipality. There is a close dialogue with the municipality's social administration about the conditions and solutions. This concerns, among other things: on the deployment of the new Central Advisory Unit. In his New Year's speech, President Kim Kielsen has appointed the year of the children throughout 2016. Martha Lund Olsen has informed me that the 2016 children's year focuses more on co-thinking the efforts in the different resort areas in relation to children and young people. This applies to social efforts, health, school, education and occupation. All this shows that autonomy takes the problems seriously and that there is a great deal of attention to the social problems of children and young people in Greenland. It will, of course, take some time before the many efforts undertaken in recent years can be measured with positive effect. As a basis for this inquiry debate, reference is also made to Denmark's responsibility in the context of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In relation to the UN Children's Convention, it is Greenland's task to ensure that legislation and administration in the field of children, for which Greenland is responsible, is in line with the international obligations of the Kingdom. Under the Constitution, it is the government that acts on behalf of the Kingdom in international affairs. It is therefore also the Kingdom of Denmark which is responsible under international law for Greenland's compliance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. In other words, it is the Kingdom of Denmark which is externally in line with Greenland's compliance with the Convention. In the internal relationship between Denmark and Greenland, however, it is self-government that is responsible for compliance in taken-over areas, and the social area is, as I said, a taken-over area. The self-government is thus also responsible for complying with the obligations of the Kingdom of Denmark under international law, which result from the Act of Self-Government. It is clear, of course, that if Denmark becomes aware that there are problems in complying with international obligations in the social field, then we are dealing with it with self-government. However, it is important to stress that Denmark's main contribution in such cases is assistance with technical and legal advice and sparring on social issues, if requested by the self-government. I am, of course, fully aware that, as stated in the comments to the Self-Government Act, the government can impose on the self-government the necessary measures to meet international obligations. However, cooperation within the Kingdom Community is not characterised by instructions or similar actions, but by dialogue in mutual respect, with a focus on political solutions. And that's exactly what I'm doing. As I mentioned earlier, I have had discussions on this matter with Mr Martha Lund Olsen and will continue these discussions. I would also like to stress that self-government takes this matter very seriously and that there is a great deal of attention to the social problems of children and young people in Greenland. I met my Greenlandic colleague Martha Lund Olsen last week, where it was stressed that Greenland is in favour of closer cooperation in the years to come in order to address the major challenges in the area of children and young people in Greenland, and I am very pleased about that. Since 2006 Denmark and Greenland have had a cooperation agreement in the field of vulnerable children and young people. The agreement has since been extended to cover the whole social area. The agreement provides access to the exchange of knowledge and experience as well as professional and legal sparring and also gives the Greenlandic municipalities access to advice from the VISO, i.e. the national knowledge and specialist advisory organisation. As part of this agreement, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior has regular meetings with the Greenland authorities via the Social Contact Committee. Before Christmas, we had a meeting of the Social Contact Committee, where we discussed how to put our experience in the social field more specifically into practice for the benefit of vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. We have identified from the Danish side some possible offers of types of assistance, which we are specifically the Danish Social Protection Agency (the Danish Social Protection Agency) will be able to help Greenland with. This is, for example, the case. on the development of simple methods and tools for handling the case and the supervision of the case. It is also a question of developing a model for the supervision of social services, and then it is a question of developing the central advisory function in their ongoing support for the qualification of the municipalities' casework and the range of offers. Greenland's Department of Social Affairs has already contacted the National Social Security Agency with a view to obtaining assistance and sparring in relation to strengthened legal and professional supervision of the handling of social interventions in Greenland. I am very pleased that Greenland has indicated that it would like to intensify cooperation in the social field. There is a need for concrete and targeted solutions in this area, and we would very much like to contribute to that. The strength of the Kingdom community is precisely cooperation in mutual respect. On the Danish side, we would very much like to make our contribution to a positive development in Greenland with the overall knowledge and experience we have in the social field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122125502	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. Then we start the debate, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122125515	Thank you very much. It was the same Minister of Social Affairs who stood here on 24 April 2009 and said virtually the same thing about dialogue, about things that have been put in place, about all sorts of different things. There is nothing happening So, we can stand here in 6 years' time again and certainly have the same discussion that we have now, and hear that now things have been set in motion, and now we have talked with Greenland's self-government, now we have put it and that in motion. I just don't believe it anymore. And I will almost guarantee that if you have the same discussion in 5-6 years, it will be exactly the same way. The Minister for Social Affairs says: if we become aware of the problems, we will tackle them. I don't think you're gonna be anything. That's why the government has to take action. There is an obligation under international law, and I think it is indecent that we should continue to do so year after year. And those who are the victims of this are 5,000 Greenlandic children, one third of the Greenlandic children, 5,000 Greenlandic children, who are likely to suffer neglect of care. It is a scandal which we continue indefinitely. Why don't we grab it? As I said, I've been going through reports just for the last 10 years just for the last 10 years. And without much effort, I have found over 100 newspaper articles on the matter: sexual abuse, abuse, parents with drinking problems, hungry children, etc. Time only allows brief examples: Politiken 2006: Kristeligt Dagblad 2006: Nuuk asks for help with paedophile cases. Politiken 2006: Greenland has 37 times as many paedophilia cases as Denmark. Berlingske Tidende 2006: Each third girl in Greenland has been sexually assaulted. Christian Dagblad 2007: Finally, there is the sexual abuse of children that has an extent that is hard to comprehend. Thus, in a study last year, almost half of the villagers told them that they had been sexually offended..... Politiken 2007:..... and sexual abuse of children occurs six times as often as in Denmark. Comments in Politiken 2007: Greenlandic politicians seem to have given up. Or they are busy working for those who, after all, are well in Greenland: themselves. Information 2009: The many stories about neglect and abuse of Greenlandic children...... Kristeligt Dagblad 2014: • Every third Greenlandic child they have problems due to problems such as care failure, sexual abuse, parental abuse...... That same year, the then child spokesperson reports that of the 15,000 children living in Greenland, one third have problems due to alcohol, suicide, massive social problems, and that children do not get enough food • children do not get enough food! These are Danish citizens! If this had happened in the Maldives or in Peru, I am sure that a task force would have been sent away already now with protests to the governments of those countries, but when it is Greenland, you do nothing. The latest report states that Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is not being complied with, just as it is believed that Articles 20, 27, 28, 29 and 34 are not being complied with. It's within the kingdom we're talking about. I'm asking for this frivolous list I could have kept going for hours: can the Danish Parliament still have confidence that Greenland's self-government is able to solve the problems? I myself, and I have mentioned this before, do not have the very least confidence that the self-government can work with these things, and therefore the government must assume responsibility. The government has obligations to protect all children within the kingdom. Each and every one of these children is, as I said, Danish citizens. You can no longer duck on the part of the government and say that the area has been repatriated. I know the law of self-government.I was involved in working with it myself at the time, and I don't need a review of it: the government has the overall responsibility. If the government does not accept that responsibility, it will not only be guilty of some neglect, it will also be guilty of another generation of Greenlandic children being exposed to a grotesque degree of neglect, that another generation of Greenlandic children will grow up with sexual abuse, that children will starve. It's obscene. When do you grab it? When does the touch stop? I look forward to hearing the debate and also what my colleagues in the Folketing will say about it. We know the government's attitude to this, and it's sad, but true. This is why, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to recognise that Denmark, as a signatory to the United Nations Convention on Children and Armed Conflict on behalf of the whole Kingdom, has the overall and final responsibility for ensuring that Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is complied with by Greenland's Self-Government and by Greenland's municipalities, and that, accordingly, the Government takes the necessary steps to comply with the Convention. • V 17).
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130023	That will then be part of the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130031	Thank you. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having taken up the debate. I think it is both important and necessary, and I do not know if anyone in the Folketing agrees that there are very serious conditions in Greenland. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur himself believes that if we make a Danish task force, it will take up and solve the problems. We have experience in Denmark that social problems are not solved within 1 month, 1⁄2 years, 1 year or 5 years. That is something that is solved by systematically building a system which, even after, for example, a Danish task force has done something that can work. And that is why it is important to be trained and ensured that Greenlanders themselves can take care of Greenlandic conditions while recognizing the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130127	Well, how long is it gonna last? In other words, as I said, I could have found examples back to 1985. For half hours I could have listed just the headlines on the newspaper articles that have been printed, and also reports from all kinds of sides on how to tackle it. No, I don't believe that self-government can handle this. And yes, I believe that if Denmark's government has the will to end this kind of failure to care for citizens of the Kingdom, then it will be tackled. Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130203	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130204	Thank you. I think sir... Søren Espersen helps create some illusions, both about how effective Danes can be in Greenland, and about how to deal with this kind of problem. And I fully agree that you can panic and say: what is happening? But I would like to remind you that in Denmark, since we were given the first real social law, we have spent 80 years trying to put our society into practice. Nevertheless, if we are to be honest and self-critical, things will appear in Danish society, which we can be so embarrassed about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130244	So, comparisons with Danish social policy are completely unheard of, and that would suggest that Mr. Christian Juhl did not get into the reports at all. The problems we have are water compared to those that Greenland has. And it's gonna get started if you find out something's going on. This has been done in numerous cases, which of course also exist here in the Tønder case, the Rebild case, etc. You get to grips with the problems. And then Mr. Christian Juhl, that I am panicked. Then it is a very long panic that has now almost lasted 25 years. I don't know if that's particularly panic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130320	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130323	Thank you very much, and thank you for raising this issue. I myself have been Greenland's first child spokesperson and have spoken many of these things, so I am actually glad that the subject is being discussed. But as I am not surprisingly going to say, it is a Greenlandic responsibility, and I will of course hold on to that. I also think it is important that we have a nuanced and solution-oriented debate, so I would like to hear from the rapporteur for the questioners whether he recognises that Greenland itself has a responsibility in relation to international law, the fact that you go in and sign it yourself, ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also the areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. Are there any areas that the rapporteur for the questioners believes should also be looked at in relation to lifting this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130407-2	Well, I fully acknowledge that Greenland, in accordance with both the Home Rule regime, but also the system of self-government, has the overall responsibility for what is also happening in the social field. I never said that was different. It could be wonderful if you could solve those problems without involving others in it, and I hope that will happen, but I do not believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130431	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130433	The rapporteur refers to Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, but I really think that Article 3 and Article 18 are much more interesting because they are actually the ones who are a little more action-oriented. It is about parental responsibility, and then it is about the adequate number of employees. Some of what Greenland's self-government itself points out in various reports is that case managers can sit with up to 300 cases per year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of urgency that we should get help in one matter, but then we are still sitting away with 299 other cases. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130506	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130506-2	Well, of course, I am also aware that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen herself has made an excellent report in the past while she was a child speaker, and various articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are also being pointed out. I also mentioned in my speech that there were several paragraphs, or whatever it is called, which had been pointed out by the current child-talker, and that just helps to make things worse. As I said, Greenland is responsible, but it is a process that does not change. It gets worse despite never so many dialogue conversations and strategies and plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130547	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then we move on... sorry, I missed that. Then it is a brief comment on Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130558	Thank you. As I understand the rapporteur, the rapporteur believes that the Danish state and the Danish government should intervene in Greenland. I would like to know exactly how the rapporteur envisages this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130613	Well, this could be done by starting by acknowledging your responsibility. I don't think you do. It is said that it is Greenland that is responsible, and then you have the overall responsibility, and should we be aware of something, so... it could be done by putting a part of the self-government agreement out of effect, it can be done by a simple majority here in the Folketing in the area it could happen by agreeing with the Greenland Government that you equip a task force that deals with the problems or who works with it. There are several different options for doing so, but as I said, it only requires a general majority in the Folketing if the will is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130658	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130659	I understand that the rapporteur wants the autonomy to be abolished in this area, if not forever, then at least for a time, and then a task force should be sent up from Denmark. I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that this is a country with enormous distances, and I would like to know how many people the rapporteur expects to be involved on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130731	I do not want the self-government agreement to be put out of effect; I want the problems to be resolved. I can only say that I have been in this situation many times before, that we have had questions about this, that there has been a promise of penance and recovery and that nothing is happening. How this is to be organised in practical terms, I would like to answer if I were to be asked about it one day, when the work starts, what I doubt, because it will go as usual: a majority of the members of the Folketing and the government will say that, unfortunately, they cannot do anything about this because they are afraid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130808	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur for his questions. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted now as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122130821	When the child speaker in Greenland can report that children in North Greenland are miserable and do not get the help that they need and claim, it is clear that Danish politicians are pointing their ears, and I think that many of us have the urge to act and to help. Greenland is part of the kingdom community, and our relations with the Greenlandic people are close. Sir. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party, who has called for this inquiry debate, has said in the press that Greenland must be placed under administration in order to resolve the social problems. The Socialists do not share that view. Everyone in this Chamber knows that Greenland's autonomy is responsible for the social area. The Social Democrats have great respect for this, and others should have it, and it is with respect and concern for children and young people that I am letting my words fall today. Most children and young people in Greenland have a good upbringing, and we must remember that, but there are children and young people who are miserable, careless, abused or subjected to incest, and they must be given the responsibility and duty of the municipalities and the Greenlandic state that help for vulnerable children is sufficient and that it arrives. The living conditions from town to village are very different. The distances in Greenland are large, the population lives apart, yes, some live even secluded. This means that children and young people in Greenland grow up under very different conditions. In the settlements there is great poverty: the average income in a settlement is approx. 125,000 kroner, and on top of that, food is very expensive. The supply ships rarely come, the families typically live off what they catch on land or on the fjord. In other words, the inhabitants of the settlements live in isolation large parts of the year, and it goes without saying that it is a challenge to take up social work, because often there is no educational or social education among the people who care for the children. Uneducated and perhaps resourceless adults must take care of abandoned children. Societies are small and there may be family relations between the vulnerable family and those who need to intervene. Perhaps even there are failures among those who have to look after the children. The consequence is that the problems are discovered too late, that vulnerable children and young people are isolated in their own society. It seems essential that the Greenlandic state and the municipalities focus more on sending educational and social professionals to the settlements on regular visits. The Greenland Minister for Social Affairs has stated that each social worker has up to 300 cases. So 300 cases! It is a completely unheard of and untenable figure, and perhaps it is one of the reasons why it is difficult to maintain skilled social workers. An obvious task for the Danish state in this context could be to offer help in the training of social workers, child counsellors and psychologists, and a friendly proposal for Greenland's self-government could be that priority should be given to increasing the number of trained social workers and child experts. After primary school, the young people in the settlements have virtually nothing to do. Often they only know their own village and maybe the neighborhood 40 km away. Their world is small and for some their dreams of the future disappear. The suicide rate is high, especially among the 17-20-year-olds, because they have lost faith that there is a good life for them and because they do not receive the professional treatment they need. It therefore seems obvious to see how we can support the mobility of young people, for example. may be able to obtain training outside the settlements regardless of the size of the family's purse. The geographical conditions in all their beauty and strength as well as infrastructure challenges cannot change, but it is evident that there are a number of other areas where beneficial action can be taken. On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I propose that the Danish Government enter into close dialogue with Greenlandic self-government on where we can support and help. Perhaps you should take a look and look into the world for inspiration for solutions in other societies that are burdened with similar problems. We must not fall into the trap of overjudges, for it does not help children, nor does it lift young people. Let us jointly implement a long-term plan on how children and young people in the future will receive sufficient and competent help to become strong and vigorous fellow citizens of Greenlandic society. A little later, a text for adoption will be read by Mr. Marcus Knuth, and the text adopted by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131322	Then it's first, sir. Søren Espersen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131326	I hope it will not be insulting, but I think that Mrs Karin Gaardsted sounds completely like the Greenland Minister for Social Affairs, who tells us about long distances, that there are huge problems, that there are small settlements and that there are too many cases and so on. After all, it is the jam that we hear from Greenland's Self-Government and before it from home government, and that we have been listening to for years. Mrs Karin Gaardsted says that she has respect for self-government. Why would she do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131352	It is absolutely true that it may sound like the Greenland Minister for Social Affairs with regard to those things, but it is not wailing. It may well be that the rapporteur thinks it is a jam, but it is a fact. One has to deal with the conditions that are in Greenland, because they do not look at all like the Danish conditions, and it is no use that we come with our knowledge and have to act in Greenlandic society when the tools and actions we have in Denmark cannot be transferred immediately. That is why I want us to help self-government. And yes, I believe in self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131433	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131435	But why has Mrs Karin Gaardsted respect for self-government when it has been shown for years now that it is not possible and cannot succeed? Why do people for years continue to sing the same song here in the Folketing when the problems are not only as they were, but are actually getting worse? It is true that it is not certain that it is a jam, because you cannot cope with the problems. But so, let's get a clear statement from Greenland's Self-Government: No, we don't have these problems, so now the Danish government has to take over. Let's get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131513	I have respect for Greenlandic Self-Government, and I think we should have that in the Danish Parliament. For Greenland has autonomy, and there are many areas that Greenland has taken home. We must respect that. And it will be from this that I say mine: that if Greenland asks Denmark for help, I am quite sure that we, too, from the Folketing, will be prepared to send more help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131543	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131546	Thank you. I had the great experience a few years ago to be on an orientation trip to Greenland, where I experienced the country. There were so many positive experiences. However, I also experienced some of the things that the debate is about today, particularly the vulnerable children and young people. And in this connection I thought: Why can we not help them any more? Why can't we get them on the right track to make sure we don't keep hearing these terrible stories? When the rapporteur says that we cannot use our knowledge, I think it sounds a little negative, and I actually think more: why can we not use the experience we have in the field of children, in the area of vulnerable children and young people, to help them in Greenland to move forward in this area so that we do not get the number of cases... [Sound emission]. I would really like to hear about this from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131636	I do not, however, disagree that there is a desire for us to be able to help them better. I have also visited Greenland five times, and have also experienced things where I think it should be done differently. However, I just believe that we need to respect the fact that it is the Greenlanders themselves who must help to fulfil their task. That is not a bad thing to say when I say that we should not give our better knowledge to the Greenlanders. I just want them to ask us to. Then I think there is a strong desire on the part of Greenland that the Danes do not come 14 days at a time and then go home again. If this is to be corrected, and I certainly think that it should be, then it must be something that has a longer shelf life, and so it must also be a long-term effort that we can offer to Greenlandic society if they want to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131738	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131739	It is okay for the rapporteur to say that they should ask for help, but you can also offer help, and that is what the Danish People's Party is now proposing, namely to say that we would like to offer our help because we actually have some experience in this area. Now we have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Søren Espersen, say that this has been going on for several years. What we want from the Danish People's Party is to ensure these children and young people a proper upbringing. I would also like to hear from the rapporteur that, when the rapporteur's own party was in government, something was actually done to enable us to accommodate some things in relation to this whole area? I think that could be really, really interesting to hear. I would also like to say to what the rapporteur says: we must respect Greenland: I would like us to respect the fact that children and young people have a good life, and I do not really think we do that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131823	I mean, offering help to Greenland is what I'm going to do. But Greenland must also want it and must think that they need the help that I agree Danish society here in Denmark can offer. But it is not the same as what the authors started by saying, namely that Greenland should be placed under administration. What we did when we were in government? At that time we had the whole cooperation with Greenlandic self-government, and of course it was with these objectives in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131905	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122131906	Thank you. I know, of course, that the rapporteur has a great deal of commitment to Greenland, and that is why it is very, very disappointing to hear the approach the rapporteur has to it. The rapporteur is talking about long distances, about some relationships between those who have to deal with it, if parents cannot accept that they can have family relations and that, as such, it can be difficult in small communities. I think it's shocking to hear that. I feel like if there's a distance 30 times around the world, then there can't be children hurting. And then I don't really care about the distance. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur: did I hear correctly when the rapporteur said that there were concerns to take into account those authorities and home government and self-government who have overlooked this problem for years? Would you rather take into account their, what should you say, feelings or their competences, rather than helping children who suffer constantly and constantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132009-2	I do not think I have said that the authorities in Greenland should be taken into account. That has certainly not been my intention. I believe that the task here lies in Greenland with the Greenland authorities, in the self-government and in the municipalities. And it's supposed to be Danish we can offer help on many different fronts. I actually think I also mentioned that in my speech. So I would say in relation to the long distances, that although the rapporteur thinks it should not be an obstacle, it is not easy to get around North Greenland. It is not easy to ensure that trained staff, if you can get hold of it at all, stay in those places where you need it to be. This does not mean that you should not work with it; you have to work with it very much and purposefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132114	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132115	I would like to say once again that it is, of course, the long distances and evident lack of competence to which the rapporteur refers, so that nothing can be done about it. I believe that with the huge block grant that Denmark actually gives to Greenland, there was every opportunity to devote some of the funds to making some children's houses, employing some really qualified employees and placing them in any small village. So, the debate has almost just started. We haven't been standing here for so long, and there is still a child in Greenland who has been abused in that time. That is why I would just like to ask: what specific action will the rapporteur take to deal with this, to impose on the government that something is now being done for the benefit of Greenlandic children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132159	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132200	I would like to say that there are already family houses in a number of towns and villages in Greenland, and that is my view from the visits I have had there that they are well-functioning. And what I think should be invested in, and what Denmark can help with, are more educated people, and it has to be Greenlandic staff, because out in the settlements not many, perhaps none, speak Danish at all. That is why we must work to strengthen the efforts that Greenlandic society itself can make to those children who are so miserable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132240	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132243	Thank you. Just to put it very simply, carelessness is everyone's responsibility. Failure to care for children in Greenland is also our responsibility. Failure to care for children in Greenland is the responsibility of the Danish state, and this cannot be ignored. Then I just want to say that this report shows that it's gone back, it's gone back, and it's gone back. No progress has been made at all. Then the rapporteur talks about dialogue with Greenlandic self-government. Then I would like to hear what kind of dialogue you think helps when it has not helped the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132323	I would like to say once again that we have to respect Greenland's autonomy, and we cannot escape that fact. We can work on it and offer our help in terms of education, in terms of knowledge, as has also been said by the Minister. That's what we can do. I wish that there could be many more trained Greenlandic social workers who could settle or, at least, could come and help to clean up some of the settlements on a regular basis, because it is true what the child speaker has said that there are children who are miserable, and we must have done something about that. We just can't sit here in the Folketing and do it unless we agree with Mr. Simpson. Søren Espersen's proposal that we should put Greenland under administration. The Socialists do not agree with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132419	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132420	Then I simply have to get a very clear answer to: what is most important for social democracy? Is it most important to respect Greenlandic autonomy, or is it most important to help children who suffer every day?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132433	That is not the way to put it up, because it is extremely important that the children are helped in the way they should. That is what I think we can work with the Greenlandic home government or self-government to put into practice, because that is where it is lagging.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132457	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132459	Thank you very much for your speech. It may be said that it is the parents who, according to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, have primary responsibility, but when the parents fail, it is important that the public intervenes. Various figures have been mentioned, and you yourself mentioned these 300 cases per year. case worker, who is Greenland's self-government own figures, but that is up to 300 cases, and it can be 100-300 cases. However, the social workers' association, NIISIP, in Greenland, also mentions that there are 240 trained social workers, but only a small part of them work as case workers in Greenland. I find this thought-provoking, including with these many facts, and we need to look at what can be done in concrete terms. I myself have put forward a suggestion that you should make guidance figures and, as you yourself have said, that is a Greenlandic responsibility. But I think that the primary task we have here is to make sure that someone is sitting at home in Greenland listening to this debate and of course taking this very seriously. So I would like to hear a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132606	I would just like to remind you that there is no direct speech in the Chamber. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132610	I have also read what the social worker's association has said about, and one of the things one can do is to ensure that the trained staff one has are used precisely in those contexts where one needs the training as a basis for one's being able to do the right thing. So it could be an excellent idea to take the social workers away from having to do too much paperwork, but that they are working specifically on matters. However, I would still like to stress that Greenland's self-government and local authorities must understand that they need to have trained staff in the settlements, otherwise this matter will not be resolved for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132702	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132703	Thank you very much. The rapporteur himself also mentions settlements, and the MIO report here stresses that there are a number of challenges in a number of settlements. But I also think it is very important that we do not get everyone cut across a comb that says that there are problems in the settlements. I have been in dialogue with the current child spokesperson, who says that this is not an isolated problem in North Greenland, but that it is a general problem which we have in a number of places in Greenland. If we look at the settlements, I think that there is also a responsibility here in relation to municipal officers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132739-2	Exactly the problem of providing local authorities in all the settlements, I think is one of the areas that we should continue to work on in the Greenland Committee. Because it is a really big challenge if you do not have a person in the village to whom you can approach when there are some problems of one kind or the like. here, where it's about kids being mistreated one way or another. And then I would like to stress that it is true that we cannot just say that this is only happening in the north. But what the child speaker has described here is about the northern settlements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132823	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur on the left, Mr President. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122132833	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that I share the great concern of the Danish People's Party on this issue, and I believe that all parties and all members of parliament do. This is a terrible situation, and that is why Denmark must of course be helpful to the extent that it is necessary and possible at all. Having said that, the social area is now a reclaimed area. This means that Denmark naturally respects that Greenland is responsible for making the primary effort. It is therefore also gratifying that we see that increased efforts have been made through the initiatives taken by Greenland's self-government in recent years. Counselling units, additional funding in the Greenland Financial Act to extend supervision in the social field and in the area of children and young people, and an action plan against violence are just some of the things that have been put in place. The Minister for the Interior mentioned a large number of measures which I do not want to stand here and repeat. Does this mean that we in Denmark must remain passive when a number of social problems still remain to be resolved? No, of course it doesn't. We must support Greenland's autonomy and ensure that we offer all the help and guidance we can give and share all the knowledge we have in this area. That is why the Left also supports the adoption text which calls on the government to continue dialogue and to intensify cooperation with self-government on the current challenges. I do not believe that the solution is to start rewinding time back to where we were a few years ago. The solution is to strengthen the autonomy that we now support, because that is the only way to find a long-term solution. It is important that Denmark follow up so that we can be helpful to the extent possible and necessary. I shall say here that the Conservative People's Party also supports our adoption text, which I will read here and now, and which I note that I know all parties [Marcus Knuth (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Christian Juhl (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond (SIU) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF) ] with the exception of the Danish People's Party's Party's support. The text of the adoption reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the social area is an acquired area and that the Greenlandic authorities are responsible in this area. The Danish Parliament notes that there are major challenges in relation to conditions for vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. The Danish Parliament is aware of the measures already taken by the self-government to support the Greenlandic municipalities in their efforts for vulnerable children and young people, including the central advisory unit to advise and advise the municipalities on how to strengthen the quality of the case. As the Danish Parliament respects the division of competences resulting from the autonomy regime for Greenland, the Danish Parliament calls on the Government to continue dialogue and intensify cooperation with the self-government on the current challenges. The Government is encouraged to continue dialogue with self-government, including continuing to inform itself about the work of self-government in the social field, in particular with regard to the follow-up of current issues by self-government. • V 18).
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133142	It's at the moment. Two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133147	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if he has any respect for the ability of Greenlandic selfgovernment to solve these problems in such a way that he can say directly: yes, I am confident that autonomy can now solve these problems, despite the fact that we have had a number of years in advance in which it has not succeeded. Does the rapporteur of the Left have fundamental confidence that this will now be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133219	I am confident that the long-term solution lies in cooperation between Denmark and Greenlandic self-government, where we strengthen the competences of self-government, where we strengthen the ability of self-government to solve these problems. I recognise that there are problems right now which self-government has difficulty resolving on its own, and that is why we are offering all the help, all the assistance that we can offer here and now. But the long-term solution is not to rewind time. The long-term solution lies in allowing autonomy to strengthen their competences so that they can solve this problem themselves in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133255	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133256	But how long is a long-term solution? Well, it's been 30 years almost. I can go back to something I said in 1986 and find exactly the same problems as now. Just since then, it's been quite a while, hasn't it? Should we wait as long on the other end? Because the situation has not improved, despite all possible dialogue, as there have certainly been, action plans, small settlements and long distances and all such things. Should we wait another 25 years before a solution is found?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133335	I do not think that the solution proposed by the Danish People's Party is right. There is no snapping solution, there is no solution with a task force that just takes up and solves this. As the Enhedslisten pointed out before, and I agree with that, social problems are not something you just solve overnight. Social problems are best solved as locally as possible, and that is why I do not think that we should sit in Copenhagen and think that we have a much better solution than the one we can achieve in dialogue with and with support for self-government. I believe that, in the long term, it is self-government that can best solve this problem of initial support from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133411	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133412	Thank you. The rapporteur starts by saying that the Left shares the concern of the Danish People's Party. I am quite happy about that, but then I really don't think there was so much more that could follow up on some of what the Danish People's Party really wants to see happening. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that when we talk about 5 000 children who are at risk, that is a large number. Then I can be a little worried, 'cause I've actually seen some of these kids who are really upset. I just feel like I'm thinking, you know, we just have to be able to help you somehow. And then I think: what have we done in Denmark? We have, in fact, set up a task force which could be used here, and I hear from the rapporteur that a task force is not a good thing. I don't understand. If we have good experience in Denmark with a task force, why can we not also send a task force to Greenland and help them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133500	I do not believe, as I said before, that a task force is a solution that can just make this problem disappear tomorrow. I believe that the Danish Government must support self-government so that self-government develops the competences that are now necessary for this. Whether the word for it is task force, or you use it one way or another, this is a problem that cannot be resolved tomorrow. We need to strengthen the ability of self-government to solve this problem itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133526	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133528	Yeah, but it just didn't happen. And as Mr. Søren Espersen also mentioned this is a process that has been going on for several decades. Nor do we expect a revolution to take place tomorrow in this area, but we would like to see improvements, and these are the ones we have not really seen. I am surprised that the Left, as the leading governing party for several periods, has not really put it on the agenda any more, and that is why I think we could be together on this to support the Greenlanders in ensuring that these children have a better life. For me, it is very much about respect for children and their lives and their quality of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133605	But that is exactly what we are going to do, namely offer them all the help we have at our disposal at all. I myself sat on the Greenland Committee last autumn when Martha Lund Olsen visited the committee and where all the parties were at least all present in the room on that day unanimously said: Denmark wants to do as much as we possibly can. But this can only be done through dialogue and cooperation. I do not think the solution is to rewind time and impose some form of coercion on self-government. It doesn't strengthen the ability of self-government to solve this problem in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133636	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133639	I share the view of Mrs Karin Nødgaard that although the rapporteur started by saying that it was easy to see the issues that the Danish People's Party could openly see, nothing really happened. Clearly, self-government is the most important thing for the rapporteur: this is something we must support; it is they who take care of things; it is they who solve the problems. It just turns out it's not. Therefore, I just have to hear the rapporteur, why on earth when you can see that there are obvious problems and that this is not being addressed with the form of government that is in Greenland • the rapporteur will not help to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133727	Well, that's exactly what we're offering here. Now I do not want to repeat all the many initiatives taken by the Minister of the Interior before, both from the Danish side in relation to dialogue on the development of the case and on the development of advice and from Greenland in the form of many initiatives. I believe that we are doing as much as we can right now, both from Denmark and from Greenland. That does not mean that the problem will only be solved tomorrow. It is a very wide-ranging problem which requires time and which requires cooperation as closely as possible between Denmark and Greenland. But the proposal from the Danish People's Party to rewind time and say that then we can sit here in Copenhagen and remotely control a solution, I just don't believe in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133809	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133810	I have to say that I think that the rapporteur and the Left are abandoning our children up in Greenland by just saying that it will be all right, that we are taking it over the years, that we have set some tools in motion and that it will be taken care of. It is always, it is constantly that there are people, children up there who do not have clothes on their bodies, do not get the food they can eat, and are exposed to things that I do not want to mention at all. I think it's shocking. Why will the rapporteur not help to deal with this and perhaps help to allow Denmark to move to this area for a short or longer period of time and to help us to get the resources that need to be used in every way so that we can succeed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133857	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133858	We are very much in agreement on the seriousness of the situation; we are very much in agreement on the need to do as much as we possibly can. Now I do not want to repeat myself and list the actions that are but, as I said, the solution is not to think that you can sit here in Copenhagen and come up with a solution that is much better than the one that democratically elected Greenlandic self-government can once come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133927	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133930	I mean, it's a collective neglect we're witnessing here today. It is quite, quite frightening that in this way you can disclaim all responsibility and just pass it on. Now I just have to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree that it has at least gone the wrong way over the last many years in Greenland in relation to those children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122133951	I agree that we have a very, very big problem. Whether it has gone forward or backwards, I shall not be able to stand and say right here and now. Depends on how you measure it. But the fact is that Greenlandic autonomy, as we have heard before from the Minister for the Interior, takes this very, very seriously. And if the Danish People's Party believes that the solution is to deprive Greenlandic self-government of all responsibility and that it solves the problem, then I would say that you should think again. The solution is to strengthen the capacity to solve the problem locally. The solution is not to deprive the Greenlandic people and Greenlandic autonomy of responsibility and to think that you can sit in Copenhagen and solve a problem in the Greenlandic settlements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134030	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134032	When something doesn't work, you have to do something else. And then you just have to admit that there has been dialogue and there has been talk for years without any progression at all. I do not know whether the rapporteur has read this report, but there you can see it in black and white: it has gone the wrong way. So I just want to ask: what kind of new dialogue should make a difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134053	As I said, I do not want to repeat myself once again in relation to the measures that have been listed before here from the platform. But I think that Greenland's self-government takes this very, very seriously, and the solution is not to say: then we remove all responsibility from you, you cannot find out, and now we come up with a solution that I cannot really say what really should be, so how to solve it better on the Danish side. The solution is to strengthen local competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134120	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134123	Thank you very much. If you look at it from the perspective of the child, and especially from the perspective of a Greenlandic child, then I don't think the solution is that there will be a Danish task force that may find it difficult to communicate with the child, who will solve these problems. I also interpret this debate as meaning that there is basically agreement that action is needed and that something needs to be done, and I actually see that there is all around. I must also say that, when I hear about the efforts mentioned by the Minister for Social Affairs personally, I do not think this is enough, and I actually interpret the motion for a resolution put forward by the Liberal Group in such a way that there is a need for action and that there is a need for follow-up, including from this point of view. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134215	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134216	I am pleased that the rapporteur supports the fact that a Danish task force here is not the right solution and that initiatives are under way and that it is going the right way. If these initiatives solve the problem one hundred per cent here and now, I cannot stand here and say, but of course I am glad that there is a good dialogue between Denmark and Greenland so that we can develop the cooperation that exists and intensify it, and that is also what the text of the proposal for adoption says. And then I look forward to a very good dialogue, including in the Greenland Committee, so that we can see how we can do even more to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134252	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134253	Thank you very much. We support the text of the proposal for adoption, but of course there is also general concern about the conditions for children and young people in Greenland, at least for a third, because there are a great many who are well-functioning. So I just want to say thank you for the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134314	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is why we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134322	Thank you. I would like to thank you once again for having raised the debate and I would like to call on all of us to be as constructive as possible and not just to shout about which one of us is best at shouting the loudest. This is an incredibly serious situation with children at risk, and it is quite unacceptable that there should be the attacks on Greenlandic children that are taking place. The responsibility lies with the Greenlandic authorities, the Greenlandic parents and the Greenlandic authorities. However, it is appropriate to say to the Greenlanders that conditions are not acceptable, and it is also appropriate to say that the abuses must stop and that the Convention on the Rights of the Child must be observed. There should be no doubt about that. We should not wait until the day they say in Greenland that they might be able to use a little help from Denmark, but we must actively strengthen our efforts with the Greenlanders and say that we would like to contribute wherever we can at all, and we must of course do so actively and offensively. But taking over the task over the head of the Greenlanders will be a loss of pace. It will be to waste good energy, it will be to look at the capacity that has been built up in Greenland and which in the future will be the capacity that is the basis for solving the problems that are up there. Otherwise some people come to visit and say: hey, we're gonna get through this problem for our own bad consciences, and we're gonna go again. And then we can do it together. That is why there is a good amount of illusion in it, as Mr. Søren Espersen is laying out. It is as if some people also think that you can send a bomber and then surgically solve a major crisis problem in a distant country, and then you can go back home, and then it's solved. But that is usually where you have created more problems than you have solved, which is why I would say to the Danish People's Party: Don't fool people into thinking that it's even worse that you can just do it with a task force. And now you're using that military language to show that we have to be capable of action and that we're certainly more capable. Sir. Søren Espersen also mentioned that if it had been in the Maldives, we would probably have gone down there and had solved the problem a long time ago. No, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen, unfortunately, when I hear about children in Israeli prisons, about street children in Central America who sniff glue, about hungry children in Korea and about abused children in Romania, I am sorry. I think it seems that there are many problems in the world that need to be resolved. Does that mean that it all doesn't matter because we can't handle everything? No, it doesn't all matter, and I agree with Mr. Henrik Brodersen, if he meant what he said, that there are no children on this planet who must suffer harm. I fully agree with that. We need to make an even greater effort in many places, and of course we have a special responsibility for us having swept our own door in the Kingdom community. It is no excuse that some Greenlandic communities live in isolation, nor is it an excuse that it is a prisoner society. So it does not excuse any parent or other adult to abuse children because they live under different conditions. But it may give a picture of where we can find the solution, and that is because there are too few people to work with it here in Greenland. There may also be too few who are skilled at it, I should not be able to say that and that is why the economy in Greenland needs to be reprioritized, and we must also help them find the capacity that is needed. The question has been asked time and time again by the DF about whether the Greenlanders are trusted, and I might as well prevent and say: yes, I trust the Greenlanders. The problem has been recognized by Greenlanders. There are some self-esteemed Danes down here reading the reports and telling how wrong it is. But the solutions have been chosen by the Greenlanders, they know what it takes and the restrictions have been set by the Greenlanders, they know where the problems are and what needs to be overcome before a proper job can be done and, finally, I can say that the Greenlanders have enough, and are we satisfied? No, and that is why it is good that we get the debate back, and that is why it is good that we can say to each other that we want to say to the Greenlanders: yes, we need to solve this problem together, but it is you who have the main responsibility, we will not just stand and wait until you call for us; we would also like very actively to get to grips with the problems. And there I think it is quite okay that the Minister says: I will make contact with them, I will visit them and so on. etc. This must happen from now on, until these problems are resolved, so that they know that we can do some things all the time, but that must not be done by creating illusions, Mr President. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134826	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134828	So now I can at least deny a statement that we intend to send bombers to Greenland, because that is not in our proposal for adoption. When Mr. Christian Juhl now says that we should help Greenland financially, I have to ask him something: is it because he does not respect the law of self-government, which clearly shows how the economic relationship is between Denmark and Greenland, where Denmark grants an annual subsidy of 3.4 billion. kr. measured in 2009 money, and that's it? So how did he just imagine it would be fixed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134905-2	Firstly, I did not say that there should be bombers, I just said that it is the same attitude that lies behind those who think that in isolation you can solve a problem with a bomber and surgically go down and resolve a crisis. Secondly, I did not say that Denmark should give more money to Greenland. I said that Greenland has to give its financial resources a different priority, and that means spending more money in this area and less money elsewhere. The Greens have to recognise with themselves that this can only be done in this way. That's what I meant, and that's what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134941	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122134941-2	Okay, that means that Denmark should not contribute further financially to this matter? I can understand that in the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. But I still need an explanation of how it might be about the same idea to send bombers out to bomb and so want to help careless children. I'm having a little trouble understanding it, but maybe it's because I don't have the same lively imagination as Mr. Simpson. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135005-2	Yes, but I'd like to try to explain it again. I said that when you create illusions that by sending a task force from Denmark to Greenland and now you even use a military expression you solve the problem, you help to create illusions both to yourself, but also to the Danish people, that you can do that and that the problem is solved within a year or two. But it's not. We can contribute and we can help, and we can build on what the Greenlanders have built up, but we cannot come and solve a problem over people's heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135042	Sir. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135043	I would therefore like to acknowledge that the rapporteur is constructively involved in the debate here and, to that extent, to come up with some proposals for solutions. Now it is said several times that we call it a task force. For my sake, you could call it a teddy bear, I don't care. I just think that we have as many resources here in Denmark in this area as we could contribute. Then I know that it was mentioned earlier, for example, that language and everything else could not be understood. But if you take the view that there is, for example, a children's house where there are ten Greenlandic educators, then they have probably been in Denmark to take the education and in this way they can speak the language. If you came with ten from Denmark, it was an opportunity to lift it. Is it a major problem for the rapporteur, for example, that it could be resolved in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135136	Language is not a problem. So, Danes can also learn Greenlandic. And if the Greenlanders say: Hello, Denmark, you have a capacity we would like to be allowed to use, then I think it can be solved. This is certainly not the biggest problem here. The biggest problem is that we get things moving. Now Mr. Søren Espersen, if we'd spend extra money on it. That's not a problem either. I am not going to give an extra grant for it, but if it is the case that some Greenlanders could benefit from an education in Denmark, or that we came and trained them or used the capacity and knowledge and experience we have, then it is also a kind of value in money. But I think that is also something we can work out to solve. So neither the language nor, for that matter, the transfer of experience to Greenland should be a problem when we offer to help solve these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135234	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135235	The rapporteur said that he would like to take one of the Danish People's Party's questions at the forefront and that he had the full confidence that self-government would manage this. However, as we have shown on several occasions, nothing has happened for many years, and I have the simple question for the rapporteur: would the rapporteur please make a few suggestions as to what the rapporteur thinks it would take to restore confidence in self-government, including in the area of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135318	Thank you. So, like old times, when we talked about problems in Africa, back in colonial times, we talked about Africans not being able to learn, and that's why we treated them the way we did, and then we apologized for such things, you say a little in the same way, a little in colonial lords: can you move a little, then we have to solve the problem for you. And that's the approach I don't like. I think that a great deal has been achieved in Greenland. That doesn't mean I don't think there are any problems. We must help to solve them together with the Greenlanders, and we must make use of the capacity with them, because that is the perspective in the future, rather than acting over their heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135400	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135402	Thank you. I'd like to make something clear. When the rapporteur talks about the fact that a task force is something with military language, I would like to say that this is something I, as a social rapporteur, have often used and something we use very much. Because this is something we have used in the terrible children's cases that have been in Denmark, where we have chosen to send what we then call a task force to help the municipalities that have not managed their territory in relation to vulnerable children and young people. It's just to make it clear. But sometimes, as a party, you may not have to be hung up on what previous rapporteurs have said years ago, but yet I think that this is an issue that has stretched over a long period of time. That is why I have found some things that Enhedslisten's rapporteur said in a similar debate back in 2009 in relation to vulnerable children and young people:... we must keep Greenlandic politicians firm that this is their responsibility. In fact, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur in all silence whether the rapporteur thinks that they have fulfilled that responsibility and what the Enhedslisten has actually done since 2009 in order to keep them up to that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135500	We have had the debate with our friends in Greenland incredibly many times, and I can tell you that for example. in the Nordic Council, where we sit together in a left-wing group, we very often have discussions about these things. We have collaborated with the Greenland MFs, and we have discussed it and have discussed concrete solutions incredibly many times. And I think that is also a result. I think it gives a wrong picture to describe Greenland as if nothing has happened, in other words as if it were just standing still, as if no one were recognizing the problems. It is the Greenlanders themselves who have identified the problems, who write one report after another, discuss possible solutions and take initiatives to improve it. Then we cannot stand here and say that the Greenlanders do nothing, that they have not achieved anything, and now we must come as wise masters and solve the problems for them. That's what I'm reacting to. Instead, one should say: Hello, Greenlanders, you have achieved a great deal. We'd like to help you move on with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135601	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135602	I also asked what had happened. So, you've had discussions, you've read reports etc., but how is it going to work in the real world, among the 5,000 children who are at risk in Greenland? I need to hear Enhedslisten make a bid for that, because that's what's at the heart of this. The Danish People's Party will focus on children who have a poor quality of life. I am sure that the rapporteur has also seen some of these children. So discussions and friendship clubs and everything else are very, very fine, but I really think action should be taken and I really do not think there has been any action and any bid from the Enhedslisten on what we should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135641-2	I am very sorry because I think I have just pointed out that concrete things have happened. If you do not read the reports that come from Greenland selectively, then you can see that there is also progress being made, that improvements are also being made. The very fact that people are trained and employed, that they work, that they prevent; the mere fact that there are family houses and children's houses, and what I know; the mere fact that the authorities have become much more aware of it; the mere fact that there is pressure from, for example, Denmark • all this has produced concrete results. There's not as much abuse as there has been. Does this mean that we don't have to do this anymore? No, it doesn't. We still have a huge responsibility, which we must also share with the Greenlanders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135728	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135729	Thank you. Can the rapporteur state whether an attempt has been made to send a task force to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135745	The Enhedslisten has not sent any task force to Greenland, nor do we intend to do so over the head of the Greenlanders. We intend to cooperate with the Greenlanders on this as far as we can. I cannot do that physically, because I do not understand what solutions are needed to deal with such problems, but I can help make some decisions about what can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135801	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135803	If you haven't tried sending a task force to Greenland, how can you stand on the platform and say it doesn't work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135816	Well, it's allowed, even in this hall, to use your common sense. The Greenlanders have built up a capacity, and then you want to push it aside because you think that we, who come from a completely different culture and society, are even better at it. It is then in the field between our experiences and the experiences of the Greenlanders, our efforts and the efforts of the Greenlanders that we can find the real improvements. It is totally unwise simply to say that we will manage that for them instead of with them. That's where I react so violently to your opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135848	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135851	Thank you very much. I would like to acknowledge the rapporteur's statement on what I interpret as feeling a little like an object. I am very pleased that we have two members of parliament here from Greenland, otherwise I think it is a rather fun debate. So I think it is really important that we have respect for those of us who come from Greenland and have little knowledge of the conditions at home. I would like to say for information to the Danish People's Party that we have a pedagogy education in Greenland and that a number of efforts are actually being made to make travel teams in the municipalities, which might remind us of these task forces that are being spoken of. These were some of the things that could have been studied before the proposal was put forward. I'm usually in favour of making an early effort, and we're talking, for example. I would like to say that I would much prefer early action rather than late action or even better: to prevent sexual abuse. And that is where I think Greenland should take action. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122135954	I fully agree with that with confidence in the Greenlanders. But when I hear the Danish People's Party, it sounds like they're asking: do you have blind faith in the Greenlanders? That is actually what they want to ask, and the answer is no. We have confidence in the Greenlanders, just as we have in all sorts of other people, just as I am confident that the Danish People's Party works to the best of its ability and to the best of its intentions for their policy. Then the question is whether to make an early effort or a late effort. In principle, early action is the most important. Preventive action is the key to all social issues. At the moment, however, I believe that we must all recognise that there is a need both to strengthen the early efforts and to continue with the late efforts and to pick up the problems afterwards when the attacks have taken place. Both are necessary in a holistic approach in such an area as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140051	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140053	Thank you. As for the children's houses mentioned, there is one children's house in Greenland called Saaffik, and unfortunately we have seen that it has been downgraded in connection with this central counselling unit that has been created. There has also been broad agreement within the Inatsisartut Family and Health Committee that there is a need to do something more. A central advisory unit is not enough. More efforts are needed to ensure that the municipalities can carry out the task they have. It is, of course, a Greenlandic responsibility. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140126	I agree with the position of Greenlandic politicians on this issue, and that is why I also called in my speech for the Greenlanders to give priority to their economy, so that such efforts can be afforded. It is extremely important that the money for it is found. Just as we reproach the Danish Government for giving tax relief instead of solving social problems, we would also like to call for, if we are to interfere in the economic priorities of other countries at all, that we should find the money to solve these problems. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140200	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140211	It is against a very serious background that we are standing here, and I am really very humble about this particular issue and look at it with deep concern, as Mr. Søren Espersen does, and that, of course, is why the question debate is here today. I'm not the only one in the Liberal Alliance who's worried about this background. It is the entire parliamentary group, and I believe, as has been said by several other rapporteurs, that this is a problem which concerns a great many people, and you can feel a certain impotence when you read about these problems for children and young people who are at risk and who are living under some perhaps awkward conditions in Greenland. We in the Liberal Alliance have read about this on several occasions, and we have heard about how long it goes back. I can't do it like sir. Søren Espersen says I've been following that part so far back. However, for the Liberal Alliance, it is also essential that we in the Kingdom Community have full respect for the agreements we make. In the Liberal Alliance, we want a constructive dialogue with Greenland on the development of the Commonwealth, and we believe that over time more responsibility must be transferred both in the social field in question here and in several other areas. It must be done as both Greenland and Denmark want it and are ready for it. Now I have had the opportunity to follow a really long debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly, which also includes the replies of the Minister, and I have also followed the committee and have been able to read the answers to a large number of questions, which Mr. Christian Juhl has tabled a committee. In fact, I believe that the Minister's reply today, as well as to the committee, is complete and quite parallel to the positions of my own and the Liberal Alliance. And so I find it reassuring to know that there is already a cooperation and a cooperation agreement between Greenland and Denmark in the social field, and that a whole series of initiatives have already been launched, and there is knowledge sharing in this area. That is not something I can add to, one might say. A full list has already been given by the Minister on that front. In fact, I have also noted that there are professionals who believe that Greenland is on the right track in this field. But perhaps these are small steps. Since the social area has been taken back by self-government, the Liberal Alliance shares the view of the government that it is self-government and the Greenlandic authorities who are responsible for solving the specific challenges of vulnerable children and young people, and therefore, as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left in the past, the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140522	First of all, a brief comment on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140526	Thank you very much. As the rapporteur himself has said, the social area has been taken back to Greenland. However, we know that there are a number of areas bordering on this area where Danish support can be given to the optimal conditions under which children and young people grow up. This is among other things. within family law, and this week we have had a treatment of a family law package. And there are also municipal officers, as has been mentioned earlier. I would like to hear the Liberal Alliance's position on raising these areas and optimising the operating areas, if you can put it that way, as the Danish state is doing on behalf of Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140609	Thank you. Yes, I myself, as others have mentioned, have also had the opportunity to participate in the Parliament's orientation trip to Greenland quite recently, and I experienced several settlements where they were just in demand for these municipal officers and village officers. If there is a desire in the settlements to raise that area, I certainly think that this is something that could be seen constructively in cooperation with self-government. So it could, for example. be a solution, but I must in no way make myself an expert in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140647	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140648	Thank you very much. The same is true in the area of family law, which is a fairly large area for Denmark on behalf of Greenland. In the course of the week, we had a dispute settlement case, and if we could prevent conflicts in the families, it would be of real importance to children and young people. That is why I think we should support the fact that this area is, of course, also being optimised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140719	Prevention is always a good thing, and I think it is also important that there is openness on these issues and that it is not made a taboo, so we are trying to cover up some very clear issues in the settlements in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140738	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140742	I'm a little surprised that sir... Carsten Bach says Greenland is on the right track. It is very difficult to see when it comes to a country which has an annual structural deficit of 750 million. kr. up to 2040 or 80 billion. kr. according to Danish conditions • every year. It does not sound like a country that is on the right track, nor a country that has the opportunity to solve these serious social problems. However, there was one thing I attached myself to, and it was that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance said that we must respect agreements reached. I kind of agree that we should. We do not have much confidence in conventions, we would like them to be abolished, but as long as they are there, we must respect them. When the Child Counselor points out that Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is not being respected and that Articles 20, 27, 28, 29 and 34 are being violated, have we lived up to agreements reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140841	I have full respect for and confidence in the Greenlandic authorities, just as I have full respect and confidence that all other authorities and officials will solve and try to carry out the task they have now been asked to do in the best possible way. I think that is also the case with Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140858	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140859	Now I am not talking about confidence in self-government or home government. I am talking about the Danish Government's obligations in an international work in which the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been signed. Are we living up to the UN Children's Convention when we have signed also on behalf of Greenland, or are we failing agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140921	As I understand the legal assessment, it is Greenland that is responsible for the conventions in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140930	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale for a brief comment. Maybe it was a mistake. ) Well, then we'll find out later. Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122140947	Then I would like to follow up on the questions asked by Søren Espersen and to which I do not feel that Søren Espersen was given an answer. Once we have concluded agreements, be it conventions, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141018	In fact, I do not feel that we in the Liberal Alliance are concerned about conventions. As I also said to Mr. Søren Espersen, I believe that the legal assessment is that it is Greenland that is responsible for the bindings in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141035	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141037	But when it turns out that there are several points on which the Kingdom, the Kingdom, Denmark, is violating the conventions, because there are parts of our Kingdom community that do not meet the obligations that one can rightly expect, then we are going to be in a very bad light on the outside. I could live with that if it wasn't on this tragic background that we do it. I have to say that I actually think that the rapporteur is failing a little here by simply saying that this is something that Greenland should take care of. We are complying with the part of the conventions that we think it is comfortable to observe, and the rest we leave behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141120	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141122	I still see that there is very constructive cooperation in the Kingdom community to solve these problems and that this must be the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141134	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141142	Thank you. I am replacing myself as rapporteur in this area, as our rapporteur is at home having children this weekend. In the alternative, we can also see that conditions for children and young people in Greenland need to be improved, and by this we believe that there is a whole range of issues that need to be improved. But we also recognise that it is the Greenlandic authorities that are responsible in this area and we are sure that they are even more aware of and concerned with these problems than we are. So we believe that we should support Greenland's own ability to solve the problems instead of taking responsibility away from them. That is why we also welcome the many initiatives that the Minister describes as being launched, we welcome the good ideas that come from the Socialists, and we welcome the fact that the Minister repeatedly stresses that sparring and help will be made available to a massive extent if self-government so wishes. That is why we also support this text from the Left, which includes, among other things: focuses on being in dialogue with self-government and supporting self-government in solving their own concrete problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141307	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141310	I would just like to ask the rapporteur how the alternative views the time horizon for this clearly launched action plan, the good dialogue, all the actions that have been taken? How long before the alternative feels it needs a little more concrete action than the things I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141342	It can only go too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141346	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141347	Now is the time that is relative now that 30 years have elapsed, when there have been no significant results. The last report makes it quite clear that it has actually gone the wrong way. Then the rapporteur says that it should preferably be tomorrow, and I very much agree with the rapporteur on that. But does the rapporteur have any idea whether it will be implemented or not? What is the timetable for the rapporteur's feeling that it is now time for concrete action?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141424	We don't believe in a task force, we don't believe in a quick fix, we don't believe in sending someone down to try to solve the matter quickly and take responsibility for self-government. We really believe that it may be a short-term solution that might solve some of the problems, but there will be a huge lack of confidence between us and self-government. So a longer and more realistic term than a quick fix, but like as fast as it goes at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141454	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Emrah Tuncer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141503	Thank you. As Martin Lidegaard could not be here today, I have been given the task of expressing the opinion of the Radical Left. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for bringing this very, very important issue up for discussion, because there is clearly a great need to find solutions to the challenges facing Greenland in the social field. In the Radical Left, however, we disagree with DF that the answer to the challenges is a Danish task force. I am not going to repeat the previous rapporteurs, but we do not believe that by sending a Danish task force we can solve the challenges that exist, because we must solve them in cooperation with the Greenland authorities. That is why we do not think a task force is the solution. Something we welcome is that something has happened in Greenland over the last 8, 10, 15 years, and that is precisely this discussion. Before, I experienced it was taboo to talk about the challenges that are in Greenland, but it is no longer, and thanks to the very talented politicians who are in Greenland, we focus on these challenges in the social field, and it is on the agenda, and that is something we are discussing here. However, we still believe that the solution to these challenges must be found with the Greenland authorities and not by sending a task force to Greenland. So we are voting in favour of the proposal for adoption that was distributed just now, and not the one that Søren Espersen gave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141634	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141637	Now the rapporteur says that sending a task force to Greenland does not solve any problems. But that is the kind of thing that has come in from the side of the debate. That is not what our proposal for adoption says. It simply says that we see a problem in Denmark not being able to comply with the conventions we have once concluded because there are massive problems in such a sensitive area as the area of children. And that is actually what we want to take care of and then find some suggestions on how to get on the right path with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141715	I agree that we must, of course, resolve these challenges, and it is also good to hear that the conventions are so important to Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen and Dansk Folkeparti. I wish, however, that DF was equally concerned with respecting other conventions. However, in reply to the question, it is true, as the proposal for adoption has also stated, that the dialogue with self-government is important and that the ongoing orientation in the social field is important. That is why we still do not believe that sending a task force could be the solution. The questioner also asked the former rapporteur about the timeframe, i.e. when to solve these challenges, and the same could be asked about this task force. How long are they going to be there and how is the timeframe for that task force to get out of it again, and the social authorities in Greenland can face all the challenges themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141812	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141813	Now, of course, it is rather the reverse world that it is the rapporteur who is asking questions to the questioner. But I would like to answer it, and that is: until the problem is resolved. That will be enough for me and until a transitional regime was introduced. There is again talk of task force and conventions, and I feel that way, as I have said before, and I do not know if the rapporteur was present at that time, that for me it can be called anything but a task force. And I have no problem with the conventions, either, looking at things a little sober. But now they are concluded, and then they must also be respected. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141854	I totally agree. We must respect all the conventions we can at all in the best possible way and to the letter. In relation to whether it's called a task force, a working group or something else, it's not something I'm concerned about either. But I still do not think it is the solution to send a group to solve those challenges. It has to be in a completely different way to equip people to cope with it in a completely different way than with a task force or working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141917	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122141919	It's just a comment. I would like to say openly and frankly here that we would like to see the vast majority of conventions where the pepper grows, we would probably like them all to be abolished. But now we are there, as Mr. Henrik Brodersen says, and that's what we're gonna do. So it's not something about what I understood the radical rapporteur was making a little fun of when he said something like that, that now it's nice to see how you're interested in observing the laws and conventions. We do, and we have always done so to the letter. Something else is that we want them abolished so badly. It is the same as with lots of laws that we also think are foolish and should be changed. We'll stick to them as long as they're here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142003	I agree with Mr. Søren Espersen in that we must, of course, comply with the conventions, but in trying to comply with these conventions, in trying to solve the challenges that are in Greenland, we still believe from the Radical Left that a task force or a working group, or whatever we call it, is not the solution to the challenges that are in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142022	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142024	It's okay. But what do we do when the Prime Minister and I quote: 'Even if it is a matter of taking over, is it still the government which, in relation to the international organisation, has undertaken the obligation of international law?' So what do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142045	We need to solve the challenges that are in Greenland, because we cannot, of course, sit and watch that not only conventions are not being observed, but also that these children are of course being abandoned. So the dialogue with the social authorities in Greenland, together with the dialogue from here, is the solution. And I have nothing against what we were discussing just now, namely whether funds should be provided or whether they should be given priority. I have no objection to adding money to the area so that we can also increase the efforts that are being made so that we can also achieve better results in the social field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142118	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142121	Thank you very much. The rapporteur mentions the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I really think that the fine thing about a convention is, when you can get it down from this very high-flying, slightly fluffy legal language to something very concrete, that is, to reduce the gap between the convention and the law and then the law and the reality. That is where I think children can feel the real difference, and that is where I think action should be taken, because there is no doubt that something more needs to be done and what has been proposed is not enough. But it is in Greenland that the effort must be done, and the closer to the children the better. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142202	What Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has just said, it is hard to disagree with. That is why I am also saying that we must do what we can to address the challenges that exist. And, as I said just now, we would certainly like to be involved in discussing whether we should redistribute some funds or provide some money, because it is precisely the children who should ultimately feel a difference through the effort being made; it is not through a lot of fluffy expressions, whether it is from a convention or some declaration of intent. We have to make that difference for the children, because they are socially vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142232	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has no further brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142238	Thank you. I actually think we could do ourselves a great favour if, instead of talking about this task force and the strange language that either belongs to the military or to the individual social workers who do special tasks, we just said that it is a rapid reaction force which, in a particular situation, can solve a particular problem of a shorter duration. I think we need to focus on the fact that this is a special situation of longer duration, where there are a number of things that need to be started. Some of them have been initiated, others have not been initiated. I would like to hear: when the rapporteur of the Radicals says that there is something that it would be good to do, for example, we can do. Isn't there any other thing we can do that would be better than just giving money? I think that money is one thing, and then one can hope that it will be used properly, but can the rapporteur make some suggestions as to what it might be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142342	I am not an expert on the challenges in the social field in Greenland, and that is something we need to do in dialogue with them: where do they think there are the biggest challenges? How can we help them there? It is not necessarily just about more crowns and ears, but about where we can contribute to that improvement. And as the proposal for adoption also says, it is, of course, in the process of having this continuing dialogue and intensifying cooperation with self-government on the current challenges. We must do this in dialogue with them. It is difficult for me right now to mention eight or ten points on which we can say that we should at least take action. I would like to have that dialogue with self-government. And yes, if it takes some changes or extra funds, I would also like to discuss it very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142426	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142428	Thank you. Then I would like to say that I was deeply shocked when I heard Mr. Søren Espersen's final statement that virtually all international conventions should be sent to where the pepper grows. Now I don't know where the pepper grows, but I understand how he doesn't care about them. I am very much in favour of us making good and sustainable conventions internationally. I fully agree with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that there is a world different from making a convention and a law and then changing the reality. What is the position of the rapporteur of the Radicals on international conventions? Any of them gotta get out of here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142510	I do not have the position Mr. Søren Espersen has. The conventions we have must be observed. And I don't think they're going somewhere where the pepper grows. They're important to have. They're important to keep. And, of course, we must do everything we can to comply with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, but we must, of course, do so in intensified cooperation with self-government on the current challenges that exist in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142534	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. Then it's the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142545	The child speaker's report is shocking reading and, unfortunately, you can put it in the bookcase among the other reports on pitiful conditions for many children and young people in Greenland. While we are debating in this Chamber in warmth and security, a number of children and young people in Greenland experience both hunger and abuse. I acknowledge the frustration and sincere indignation of the authors of the motion for a resolution that we have to read time and again about dissatisfaction. SF will be positive about further help to Greenland if they wish. And there we are at the core when this issue is discussed here in the Folketing: It is Greenland's own responsibility to take the necessary initiatives. We are not going to conduct Greenland's internal policy on the Danish side, and SF does not want to fundamentally change the contractual relationship between Greenland and Denmark. With the renewed focus of self-government on the children's area, we must expect the necessary steps to be taken. The most important thing is not the legal or political relationship between Greenland and Denmark, nor are they new smart action plans with all the right words set up in rows. The most important thing is to improve conditions for children and young people... not even in the future, but now. There is much evidence that self-government is having difficulty dealing with both the social and cultural challenges. Explanations of the country's geography etc. does not go anywhere, because Greenland has looked that way all the time. I am also thinking of how long the majority of the people of Greenland will stand in the way of things. After all, politics is a priority, and in Greenland children and young people deserve to be given priority. But it is also a task for Greenland itself. Should Greenland want increased help from Denmark, SF would like to support it. In addition, the SF supports the proposal for the adoption of Mr SF's report. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142828	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142830	It's just a simple question. How does Mr. Karsten Hønge this statement made by the Prime Minister: Even if the matter is taken over, is it still the government which, in relation to the international organisation, has assumed the obligation under international law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142853	Well, it's some kind of clamp we're in. I would like to acknowledge that to Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen. For formally it is Denmark, through the government, that stands for compliance with the Convention. But we choose to look at it in that in practice it is Greenland's self-government that has to live up to the intentions of the Convention. That is why we believe that the best way to live up to the intentions of the Convention is through good and trusting cooperation with autonomy in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142929	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122142930	Sir. Karsten Hønge interprets it as if it is Greenland that has the obligation. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? It is a strange interpretation when it is clear from the Prime Minister's statement that we in Denmark are legally bound by international law. Greenland's Self-Government or Home Government has not succeeded in doing so until it solves these problems. As I pointed out before, it's 30 years we're talking about. How much longer will it take for the Danish Government to say: that is our responsibility? How long is it gonna take?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143006-2	I think that the other half of Mr. Søren Espersen's question is really interesting: what is the substance of the matter: how long will it take, and how do you take care of it? I think the first thing about whether to interpret it in such a way that it is Denmark which, through the Convention, must be forced to intervene is more such a legal matter in the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. We just have to acknowledge, I think, that if we take the convention in this context and let it overstretch the contractual relationship between Greenland and Denmark, then we will not achieve the objective that Søren Espersen in the second half of the question poses, namely what it is about here. What is important is neither conventions nor, as far as lawyers are concerned, to improve the situation of children and young people who experience displeasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143050	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143052	Thank you very much. After all, the Community must be examined by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. I believe that it is in February that we have to stand down in Geneva and say whether we are living up to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Very often it is a shining picture that is somewhat drawn by the challenges that there are. That is why I also have a number of concerns with regard to children and young people, as I hear there is such a broad picture in this Chamber. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks there are obligations on the part of Denmark in relation to international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143131	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143133	We are talking about the same thing that I was trying to answer, sir. Søren Espersen, namely that the interesting thing for me to see is not the legal profession in it, but how we get to the result. And the result must be improved conditions for children and young people in Greenland. This involves some legal aspects, but that means above all that something must be done about it. And again, as I did in my rapporteur's speech, I would urge the people of Greenland to reflect on how long they will put up with this. One thing, then, is that it may be shocking reading for us, but I assume that it must be even more shocking reading for the Greenlandic people. But it is a Greenlandic matter, both politically and in the population. I just want to say that neither poverty nor long distances nor too few social workers, nor too few municipal officers or anything else can defend child abuse. And here it is just as much about a cultural showdown, not only with the invaders, but also with the people who in Greenland passively look at the abusers of children. So it is about the economy, it is about the legal profession, and then for me it is also about a call for the Greenlandic people both to get through politically in relation to the economic aspect and to get through culturally by not putting up with seeing a part of their population experiencing dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143253	There's one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143310	Thank you very much for your comment. I think that we are basically very much in agreement. One of the issues discussed in Greenland is that there is sometimes a resistance or a clash between cultural rights and children's rights. This is something that is being discussed very much in Greenland. So there are a lot of people in Greenland who take this very seriously. It is also to say that this is also a debate that is going on in Greenland, and that there is a great deal of concern among many people in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143340	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143342	I would also just like to confirm that the way we see it is that it is primarily a Greenlandic matter. It is first and foremost a Greenlandic matter, understood in the sense that if you think you are facing problems you cannot handle and something could suggest that the autonomy here is facing some problems in the children's area, you have a great deal of difficulty in dealing with them, then you can go to Denmark and ask for increased help. SF will be positive about it. It is also a question of how long the people of Greenland will put up with political priorities so that children and young people are not given sufficient priority. And so this is a Greenlandic matter, and my hope is that it will be a priority both politically and culturally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143425	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122143448	Thank you very much. Children and young people are our most important raw material in Greenland. I have said this many times, including as a child speaker, and I think that is important to hold on to. Children and young people's well-being and access to education, together with improved economics, are, in my view, the most important political issues in Greenlandic society and the reality of Greenland today. I have personally worked to promote children's rights both municipal and nationwide as a child spokesperson, but also as a volunteer as a co-initiator to the voluntary association MIBB/Better Children's Life, and now that I work voluntarily on the board of Save the Children Greenland. It's not always easy to talk about these things in Greenland, and it's sometimes frustrating, so I also welcome the attention on the subject. I think it is very important that the debate we are having here today is open, open and solution-oriented, with respect for the fact that the area has been taken home. Long-term efforts are needed, focusing on early outreach efforts, but there is also a need for concrete action here and now. It is an investment in our future and in our children. One of the things that is very specifically needed in Greenland is that we have a new child and youth law made, something that we from the IA set in motion when we were in government, while at the same time we made a child and young-strategy and set aside a minimum of 20 million. kr. annual in additional allocation for the area. Unfortunately, this work has been abandoned. I think it is important to say from here that children and young people are not about party politics. We need to put aside party considerations, and we need to find solutions and be solution-oriented, because the social area should be given a higher priority in Greenland than it is today, and the efforts that the Minister of Social Affairs referred to in Greenland are, in my opinion, not sufficient. The social area is a Greenlandic issue, and that does not mean that we in the Danish Parliament cannot look critically at this issue and relate to how we can support the development of the children's area from here. The Folketing has a number of obligations in relation to Greenland, in relation to international law, but Greenland itself accedes to the UN Children's Convention as Denmark accedes with reservation for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So in Greenland we ourselves have actively decided that we want to live up to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the rights it gives to children. Greenland has therefore wanted to accede to and comply with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the obligations that come with legislation, politically and morally. This is very much a commitment in Greenland, also to a degree that we are not fully living up to today. As a member of Inatsisartut I now have leave of absence I chose at the time to propose that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should be incorporated. This means that it should be written in as our own law in Greenland, something that I know has also been a challenge here. I would say that there has been broad support for that proposal, and we will continue with it. I look forward to the future work because, as I said, I believe that this thing about bringing these very high-flying conventions down to a plan where it makes a difference for children and young people is where we have to put in place. In 2009, the SFI estimated that it was almost a third of all children, or equivalent to 5,000 children, who lived with severe social problems. Unfortunately, there is no indication that this has changed significantly since then, at least not when you look at the figures. The children have the rights as a starting point, while it is the parents and society that have the obligations. It is unacceptable that so many children are abandoned, not only by their parents, but also in concrete cases by the municipalities and to some extent by us as politicians. This is serious, and it must be resolved as a starting point in Greenland, and it cannot be resolved here from the Parliamentary Chamber. Greenland has been given much more focus on the social challenges that exist over the last 10 years. We have broken a number of taboos and we are now openly talking about sexual abuse, neglect of care and lack of well-being. It is a very important prerequisite that we recognise the problem and we act on it. There's still a long way to go. When we stand with an outstretched hand from here with an offer of help, the ministers responsible must jointly seek areas where Denmark can actually contribute. This could be in relation to a continued updating of the area of family law which has lagged behind and which needs to be brought more up-to-date. This could be in relation to conflict mediation, the family business package that we have talked about, but it could also be in relation to the municipal officers. It is a purely Danish responsibility that lags in priority and in action. We have a great task ahead of us with the areas bordering on social responsibility in Greenland, which are under Danish responsibility. This is where we have to put our strength in... President (Pia Kjærsgaard): Speaking time is running out, but please finish the sentence)... just as a close dialogue and a follow-up to the Greenland Government is being supported. We therefore support the text adopted by the Left from the IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144021	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144024	Thank you. I am referring to one sentence in the speech by the rapporteur of the IA. She said, and now I quote: it is not easy to address these problems in Greenland. I think that requires an explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144041	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144042	I have been in dialogue with the current child spokesperson, and I myself, as a child spokesperson and in various other functions, have also addressed some of this within Greenlandic society. It's not always easy, and you're also often criticized from different angles when you stand up and say this is a problem. I think it's really important that we get this sorted out. We've been talking about this for so many years. We've had some of these taboos broken, and now there's a need for some action behind the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144115	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144118	Why isn't it easy? Is it because Greenland prefers not to talk about this kind of thing? You feel a little like a traitor if you start mentioning things? If, for example, you're gonna have to... report problems? Is that what's going on? Is there any other way of talking about this kind of thing than we know here in Denmark, where I believe, as was also said in the speech, that we have an open discussion about it? What are the cultural differences that can mean that you have difficulty talking about this here in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144154	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144155	We must remember that these are smaller societies. You're thinking of a case worker, like... works in a village with 50 inhabitants or 250 inhabitants, so it is difficult to be the case worker. It's also hard to be a municipal bailiff. That's also why we find it so difficult to recruit them. But also when you stand as a child speaker, you stand up and talk about the challenges that exist. You can compare it with airing the dirty laundry publicly, but I think it is very important that we recognise the problems that exist and get them solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144232	Thank you. The proposal for adoption states that enhanced cooperation is called for, enhanced dialogue on it here. However, cooperation and dialogue require two parties. Can the rapporteur say a little about whether the Greenlandic authorities are prepared to cooperate more closely with the Danish authorities and bodies on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144256	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144259	I think that is best left to the Greenland Government. We are in opposition in Greenland, so it is difficult to answer one hundred percent of it. I would say that what I am aware of in the text of the adoption is in fact the follow-up from Greenland's self-government, so that we can ensure that these are not just words, but that something is also going to happen. So that is where I really think some effort should be put in, including on the part of the Danish Government, to help push for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144327	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144330	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the efforts she has made in addition to the political ones. And especially thank you for the open way that Greenlanders have started to talk about it. In Denmark, as a boy, I remember that it was quite taboo if there were families where sexual abuse of children took place. Something really needed to be done. Fortunately, we have come a long way in Denmark, and I think it is a completely correct position to have to talk openly about it, no matter how difficult it may be in small communities. I'd like to ask you something. The rapporteur mentioned the municipal governor, and the other day we talked about it in this Chamber, about the possibilities there for mediation and so on. What other possibilities does the rapporteur consider that the Danes can contribute to a joint effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144424	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144425	It is primarily in the area of family law where there are a number of laws. Fortunately, we have now come to the conclusion that the Children's Act is being updated. It was approx. 53 years old, so it goes without saying that this is an area that requires more focus on our part in order to bring it up to date. So that's where I'm going to say there's gonna be some effort. One thing I would also like to point out is that I think we should rethink the social area and how to solve its problems in Greenland. We're talking about some smaller sizes, and that's why I think that this handling things a little more proactively instead of not necessarily just taking the way you handle things in Denmark could be really interesting to look at. We have a project called Early Efforts, where you go in and help vulnerable families already when the child is in the stomach. I think it is the way forward to look at some of those things, but perhaps also to be much more up-to-date in social work, so that is where I think we should also put our energies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144520	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144521	Thank you. I would like to know whether it would be possible for the Greenlanders themselves to resolve the problem that social workers in Greenland, as was mentioned earlier, have up to 300 cases. It is, after all, a figure on which a Danish social worker would say that it was not possible to do a sound social work. It is not only an economic problem, it is also necessary to train the necessary numbers of social workers, or will cooperation be possible there too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144551	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144552	I think that the biggest challenge is that you have so many cases, because there are some that run away screaming because it is such a burden. One thing I have suggested is that you have a reference number that could be 30 cases per year. the social worker's association NIISIP has supported this. So these are some of the concrete things that could be done. I think that it will be a great deal of analysis and declarations of intent and such things and perhaps also a little too much symbolic policy, even when we are talking about children and young people in Greenland, and that is actually what I want to break with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144629	Thank you. I would just like to say that, under the Rules of Procedure, Members are not directly addressed. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144639	The grotesque misfortune among many children and young people in Greenland cuts their eyes. What we are discussing in this Chamber is how we can achieve a way of doing this so that we can see progress in this area. It often ends up saying that Greenland will have to ask for more support. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen: will there be a call? I mean, is the assessment that more support is needed from Denmark? And what form would that support take if it were needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144720	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144721	I think that these are the areas I have mentioned, i.e. the areas Denmark is dealing with on behalf of Greenland. In addition, I think it is in the form of knowledge. I think that the VISO is very interesting, and it can help to contribute to some new initiatives in relation to Greenland, so that problems in the social field can be solved. But otherwise I think that the initiatives should come from Greenland. I would like to see even more initiatives taken; I would like the area to be given priority. I say this very clearly because I think it is still problematic that there are so many children who are deprived of care and that we do not see that we are having the curves that we need to crack. We have seen it in relation to alcohol, where alcohol consumption has fallen very much in Greenland. Of course this can also be done in the area of children and young people. It also has a connection with education. The fact that the level of education is relatively low, I think, is also linked to the fact that there are so many social problems. So it is really important for the Greenlandic community to sort out the challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144832	Here you go for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144833	Well, kids are our joint responsibility. It is, of course, neither the responsibility of the state nor of the self-government, nor of the social workers, nor of the municipal authorities, nor of all sorts of others, that is primarily our shared responsibility. What does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen think it is necessary not only to put an end to the wrongdoers or to remedy the misfortune in those families where there are the more obvious social challenges, but also for other citizens to take their own responsibility? What does it take to see it as a joint responsibility to lift children out of the misfortune and not to close your eyes to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144909	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144911	If you look at it from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is the parents who have the primary responsibility. We also know that when we bring children into the world, because then it is we who have the primary responsibility for our children. What I really find thought-provoking when we talk about the 5 000 children is that behind them there are even more parents who do not live up to the parental responsibility they have. It's first instance. The second instance is that we, as a society, also have a responsibility. Unfortunately, however, I also find that there are people in society who inform the authorities, but who say that it is a long time before action is taken. That's why I'm so concerned about the municipal public service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144947	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122144950	Thank you. I have two questions. Now, in fact, I think it has been a very good debate today that has come out a great deal, and we have been debating cross-cutting and so on. My first question is whether similar debates are being held in the Landsting and how often they are being held. Because if you do not, it might be obvious that the rapporteur took the initiative to do so, because this is quite important. The second question is that the rapporteur finally says something about the fact that it is a parental responsibility that some parents are behind it. Now, as social rapporteur for the Danish People's Party here in Denmark, I know that we often see that those who violate have themselves been violated as children, and that is why it is difficult to assume that parental responsibility if you have never experienced anything else yourself. When we hear that this has happened for decades, isn't there something that makes it possible to focus a little more on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145041	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145042	Thank you very much for the questions I am actually very fond of them. In relation to the first question, I would say that yes, it is something that we discuss very often in Greenland. I have not had the pleasure or the honour of being a member of the Landsting for so long, but I myself made four or five proposals in the session I attended before coming to the Folketing and I know that there are a large number of others who also make proposals. So this is something we regularly discuss in Inatsisartut, that is, in the Landsting. In relation to the second question concerning parental responsibility, I would like to say that I actually agree very much. For yes, there are very many who go from being victims to being invaders themselves, and there are very many parents who have scars on their own souls, and that is also why we see generation after generation who experience the same social problems. That is also something I have spoken as a child speaker. It's about breaking the social legacy. I've been in the social services myself as an employee, watching grandparents and parents with a little child on my arm, and you knew what kind of life path this child would get, and that's something that really affects a lot. So there is a need to break the social legacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145150	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145151	At least now we are talking about the negative social heritage, because a social heritage can also be a good thing to get in the bag. But here it is definitely something negative. In Denmark, we work once a year with rates pools, where we set aside funds and in fact, among other things. has also been focused on this area, about what you do with those who have been violated and then become offenders themselves later on etc. Do you have similar initiatives in Greenland where you work with it and perhaps also allocate funds to it? How do you work broadly with the whole area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145223	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145225	We've got something that looks like it. Money has been set aside for various projects, such as: new methods in the social field. So we do. I would also like to see us as Greenlandic MPs called in as part of these pool negotiations, because we also know that there are more and more Greenlanders who choose to settle in Denmark, and some of those who come here also have these scars on their souls. So I also see that there is a very great need to follow up on the strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders, which will run out here in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145303	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Then there's no more questions, and then it's sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145334	Thank you. Now I am not a co-signator of the proposal for adoption, but I would just like to say that I support the proposal for adoption, and I would like to make a few comments on why I do so. I think it is very good that this debate is being raised. I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party has done so, and it is also quite okay that it is being put a little sharp up. Then you have to deal with it. Because this case is one of the most important cases in the kingdom at all, as far as I can tell. I would also like to sign that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has played a very good role in the debate. It is very liberating that as a Greenlandic politician one dares to face the real problems that exist. Sometimes, in my quiet mind, I have thought that there are some Greenlandic politicians who tend to be concerned about a little academic abstract discussions, which really do not concern the people of Greenland's best interests. So I have great respect for that. I recognise that it is a difficult situation for a Greenlandic politician to stand in here in Denmark. Politically, in this House there is always a balance between how to refer to the two home governments. Sometimes there is a great deal of anxiety, and sometimes you tend to take control, and you have to find a balance between the two things. There can be no doubt that respect for the children in Greenland must take precedence over respect for the scheme. And if it is in any way that respect for the scheme takes precedence over respect for the children, then it is wrong. That simply cannot be done. And if that were to be the case, it would have to be said from here that it would not work. For those children, therefore, they are citizens of the kingdom, and they are, regardless of which of the three countries they live in, and they are entitled to respect. You have to find a balance, and I can give you an example from the history of the Faroe Islands. It was in the 1980s that economic governance in the Faroe Islands went completely wrong. There was no control over things, and there was a report after report to the Prime Minister's Office, in which it was described that this is definitely going wrong. But the fear of touch was total, and nothing was done. You didn't even dare to say your opinion about it, even if reports were coming in. So crashed it all, the country went bankrupt, and then they chose the other strategy, namely to take control. A group of Faroes was set up here in the house, which controlled the Faroe Islands financially. And it didn't work out at all. There was almost a revolution in the Faroe Islands, and they wanted to leave the Kingdom community and so on. You felt trumped up. So none of the two options can be used. As the proposal for adoption says, we must engage in constant dialogue and cooperation in order to resolve matters. You cannot solve them alone from here and remotely control Greenland or the Faroe Islands. Nor can the community survive, however, that one has such a great fear of touch that matters relating to the whole realm cannot be spoken about. That is why I think it is a fine proposal for adoption. But of course, as I said, we also need Greenland to be prepared to engage in dialogue and cooperation and to accept the outstretched hand that has come from everywhere in the House today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145654	Thank you. The next one is actually the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122145719	Let me begin by thanking the Danish People's Party and Mr. Søren Espersen to raise this debate. I think it has been a very, very important discussion that we have had in this Chamber. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mr Larsen for two North Atlantic mandates. Sjúrður Skaale, in order to also contribute to a very important discussion of an issue that matters a lot here in Denmark, but which certainly affects very, very many children and young people in Greenland. Fortunately, the discussion we have had shows that there is a significant political majority here in Denmark to continue along and insist on the path of cooperation. I fully share the frustration; I share the anger; and I share the grief that you face when you become acquainted with the unreasonable circumstances of children and young people. Unfortunately, it is not only in Greenland that this happens. In fact, I think that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was honest in saying that we should not be sitting here in Denmark playing completely sacred, because there is also a lack of care in Denmark. And yes, there has been a development, and some of what I think is succeeding in Denmark, and which is also about to succeed in Greenland, is that we make up the touch, that we openly and honestly put our foot down and say: This cannot be tolerated by any human being; if you experience this kind of abuse and this kind of failure, you are marked for life, and you pass it on to future generations. That is why, in all these debates, we must be very, very clear about what fatal damage is done to children and young people when there is abuse and neglect and when it is as widespread as it is. It is important for me again here to conclude the debate, to establish what has been said by many of the parties of the Danish Parliament, namely that the Act of Self-Government has been adopted by all the parties of the Danish Parliament in Denmark, apart from the Danish People's Party. That is why it is clear what the political disagreement is. In any case, this makes it clear what the Danish People's Party's wish for the nearest withdrawal of the area is based on, namely that it simply did not support the self-government law. So there is a great deal of understanding for the political position, but I must again make it clear that the social area is part of Greenland's self-government, and therefore the tasks must and must be solved in Greenland with respect for that cooperation and also with an expansive hand from Denmark. I note, and I also mentioned this in my answer to the question, that President Kim Kielsen has appointed 2016 to be the year of the children in Greenland, and I think it is worth noting that this is a man who also knows what he is talking about, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is doing. When I listen to two such strong political voices in relation to a knowledge of Greenlandic conditions, I appeal to them to really make their knowledge and influence felt in Greenland, so that things really succeed. I believe that it is a very, very important signal that last week the national government sent a legislative proposal in consultation which allows the national government to suspend, under special circumstances, the administration of the social code by a municipality. For it is quite unique that the national government will now actually be able to intervene if there is a significant breach of the obligations of a municipality or of a citizen's rights under the social code. This is an important step in the right direction. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also referred to the Greenland Social Workers' Association's statements and focus on the need for well-trained staff. I'd like to sign for that. NIISIP has also recognised that action has been taken in Greenland, but that it is of course also insisting that there is a development and that it is a development that must move forward and be improved. With these comments, I would like to thank you for the good debate and make myself available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150225	There's a couple of questioners. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150228	Thank you, Minister. So I do not think it is okay, Minister, to relativeise this by saying that we also have cases like this here in Denmark. So, the figures for Greenland are uniquely, adventurously high, and that is said in a negative way. So, when Greenland has 37 times as many paedophilia cases as Denmark, it is not uninteresting. When more than half of all pregnancies in Greenland end up in provoked abortion, these are grotesque figures. So I do not think it should be relativeised; I think it would be a shame to do so. The problems we have here we have to solve definitely but they're nothing compared to this. I had hoped that this could end up with a yellow card because otherwise we could be back here in five years, but we can return to something like this: If there is no positive change in the next three years, Denmark will intervene. If that doesn't happen, I have a fear that things will go as usual.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150332	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150334	As I said in my speech in the first place, cooperation within the Kingdom community is not characterised by the fact that we are issuing yellow cards. I think it is crucial that we stick to the very respectful approach to this: that we work together here. We have dialogue and we show mutual respect. In fact, I'm quite glad that Mr. Søren Espersen says: Don't relate to Danish relationships, because we can do it ourselves in Denmark. That is a good point, and that is the way it should be handled in Greenland. And so it is quite appropriate to make the discussion more relative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150413	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150414	Yeah, but now it's been 30 years. And I still have to clarify what the Prime Minister has said: 'Even if it is a matter of taking over, it is still the government which, in relation to the international organisation, has undertaken the obligation of international law. ▪ It has been going on for 30 years now, and there I have to ask: How long is it going to last? What are long-term solutions? How many years is this gonna take? Are we going to have this discussion again in five years, if we're still alive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150455	After all, it would be utopian to believe that any country would be completely spared from careless children. It would be fantastic if any parent were able to take the parental responsibility that is so essential for a child to be able to stand on two feet and manage life, even later in his adult life. That would be amazing. So, yes, I would say to Mr. Søren Espersen, we keep having this discussion. We also continue to have the discussion on the Danish social conditions. Because there will always be cases and we will always be frustrated about cases of careless children and will be able to say at any time that one case is one case too much. However, insisting on cooperation is what I, as the country's Minister for Social Affairs, will continue to do. And I have already held two meetings with the Greenland Minister for Social Affairs during my relatively short period of time in this House, so that it bears witness to an insistence on which I also very much find my Greenlandic colleague agree with me. That is why, fortunately, I could explain the wide range of initiatives taken by Greenland. And I have the expectation that it will improve conditions and that we will see positive developments. Anyone could be better off with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150615	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150617	Thank you very much to the Minister for Social Affairs for taking this very seriously, at least that is how I interpret the statement. This is very much about balance, the balance between a Danish and a Greenlandic responsibility, and it is also about nuance of the picture, in relation to two thirds that are well-functioning, it is very good and thrives very well in Greenland. We also know that among the 5 000 children we are talking about today, there are also a great many who have a resilience, a resistance, an ability to succeed despite the difficult conditions under which they grow up. I also think it is very important to balance the picture, in that it is not only the official picture, but that you also have the opportunity to perhaps talk to the child speaker in Greenland to get a different picture of it and get the nuances in relation to the challenges that exist for children and young people in Greenland. So I would urge the Minister of Social Affairs to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150714	I am enriched by having a sensible and good working relationship with, among others. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and get good kicks at what can be done. I appreciate the experience that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has given to the Danish Parliament and the Danish Government on how to achieve good and strong cooperation, a cooperation that produces results, for that is what everyone wants. With regard to the call that I hear from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen about my ability to also have a dialogue with the Greenlandic child speaker, I would like to confirm that I am very happy to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150802	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150804	I'm very glad to hear that. As regards Kim Kielsen, whom you refer to has appointed 2016 as the year of the children, I regret to say that there are not really any new initiatives in the New Year's speech that he made and that he lists a number of existing actions, and I think that is of course worrying. I think we should take a critical view of this so that it does not just remain a fine statement of intent. There must also be some action in the appointment of 2016 as the year of the children. I would like to hear the comments of the Minister for Social Affairs on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150841	Thank you. And you really have to try not to address each other directly in here. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150846	Thank you for the question. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council's New Year's speech showed a very, very clear path and a clear direction, and I also believe that there are political initiatives behind, and indeed a priority for, the economy in this area. To that end, I would like to say that, knowing that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen belongs to the opposition in this context, I would remind you that in this context we remember what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen himself mentioned earlier, namely that we do not allow party political discussions to go into this matter. Here we are focused on the objective and on positive developments, and that is how I have heard the President of the Government, and that is also how I have seen the way the funds have been organised and prioritised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150937	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122150942	Thank you. I hear the Minister say that progress must be made, and that is very good. But I would also like to know whether the Minister thinks that it has actually progressed quickly enough to have a more positive situation in Greenland. Well, when we still hear that it's 5,000 children out of 15,000 children out of a population of 50,000, it's alarming. If you compared it to conditions in Denmark, if you took the same percentage of the Danish population, it would be a huge number of children who would be exposed. I know, as a social rapporteur, that when we have some of these cases of vulnerable children, we react quickly, and we all get very upset, and we put things in motion and make legislative changes, etc. There I would like to hear the Minister: since we have this area and we have heard earlier in the debate, which has been very good, that perhaps we are not really asking for help from Greenland, was it not an idea that the Danish Government now went out and offered its help to many things instead of just talking about that there is a good dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151040	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151042	Let me begin by saying that I fully agree that when one finds that one third of the children in a country's population are in disarray, one does not ignore it. Then you act and then you do something about it, and then you insist that the results start coming. And yes, I also believe that we should start to see the results of that. When, at the same time, I believe that we are on the right track, it is because the extended hand from Denmark has been accepted. We have cooperation, we have strong cooperation and sensible cooperation, and the range of initiatives that I explained in my answer to the question makes this clear. Now much of the debate has been about a travel team or a task force, or whatever we call it. Thus, in November it has not been very many months since the opening of a new central advisory unit in Greenland. That's exactly what we've been talking about as one of these elements that's getting much closer to how the case and the stakes are going to be handled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151157	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151159	In other words, if we in the Danish People's Party take the initiative to take the debate on e.g. 2 years it's just an example and the current government is still gone is government, so will we be able to sit and nick a lot of things that have succeeded and that the figure of 5,000 has been significantly reduced? And I don't want to quantify how much. I would really like to hear the Minister's opinion on this, because something has to happen now, I understand. That was one part of it. The other part of it is: it's true that this task force has been talked about, but was it an opportunity somehow to send it up there? And then the IA's rapporteur mentioned it earlier with the rate pool. There I would like to hear from the Minister: is there any possibility of involving the Greenlandic Landsting in some of the things that we work with in the movement pool, so that we might also make a contribution in this way? I can't even understand it myself, but it could be interesting to follow up on the wish that came from Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151257	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151258	I would like to go into more detail on how the concrete cooperation works, in the social contact committee, where we have many meetings in a year, and where exactly many of the initiatives developed in Denmark, for example, are initiatives which are asked for assistance to be implemented in Greenland as well. This applies, for example, to the whole implementation of social supervision. What are you looking at? What is it like to work with either the municipality concerned or the institutions concerned to develop the area in a positive direction? It is just to say that the experience gained is important to work together to achieve results. That is why, in the same way as several rapporteurs have also said, it is a little square to think that if we just sent a task force up there and then came by after a month, we would change everything. I don't believe in that solution. I believe in cooperation, in continuing to have the cooperation and using the models that have been developed and which work, and then get them widespread.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151418	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151421	Thank you. Now the Minister has just answered the question I wanted to ask. There are two issues that we have revolved around in today's debate. One has been whether, in any case, we should respect the fact that Greenland has taken the social area home. And the second has been whether it is so that it is the respect of the system that makes thousands of children grow up under cruel conditions. If the latter is the case, it must be said that it is humanly wrong to respect the system. So to cut to the chase is the question: does the Minister believe that the fact that the social area has been taken over by self-government is the reason why so many children have a terrible upbringing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151514	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151515	I would like to say quite clearly once again, as I did in my reply to the question itself, that the social area is a reclaimed area. It is Greenland's responsibility to deal with it. What is important from the Danish side in the context of the discussion is to say where the responsibility for international law lies. I will find the exact wording, because Denmark is responsible under international law for the international obligations that apply to the kingdom, and that means that it is Denmark that has the international responsibility, including in relation to Greenland, for example. The United Nations Children's Convention. Internally between Denmark and Greenland, it is the responsibility of the self-government to ensure that the legislation and administration in the area which has been taken over are in line with the international obligations. I read it so clearly and yes, excuse me. I'm kind of gonna spell it out again to say that's what the assignment is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151640	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151641	Thank you. I was hoping that the Minister would clarify whether she believes that the root of the evil that is going on is that the area is taken over. This is what one sometimes senses, that is, the reason why the situation is so horrible is that it has become Greenland's responsibility. That is perhaps what I thought the Minister would say, because that is what has been in the debate by some people. Now that you want to have a stronger dialogue, a stronger cooperation with Greenland on these things, could it be an idea that Greenlandic MPs might be able to take part in the venture pool negotiations? They can't do that today, but it could be a small step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151725	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151727	Then I understood the previous question with the follow-up remark much better. It is not because of the self-government law that the conditions are as they are in Greenland. This is a situation which is not new, and we have to make that clear. In relation to the discussion on the rate pool negotiations, I would like to remind you that we have our whole block grant discussion, where Denmark provides an annual subsidy of, I think, 3.7 billion. kr., so in relation to a discussion about whether the national government should sit and participate in the rate pool negotiations, I would say that I find that difficult to see for myself. But from the Danish side we take many initiatives, which are also targeted Greenlanders, especially Greenlanders in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151824	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen in the second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122151840	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I think it has been an interesting debate, but I also think it has been rather sad from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. The rapporteurs use the same rhetoric year after year and the same rhetoric that has also been used by the changing social ministers of self-government. Everyone takes it seriously, and everyone wants a whole lot, but it's not really gonna happen. We are talking about great distances, that it is also difficult that there is settlement life and that there is a lack of resources, and not everything is not the problem. In fact, I have great respect for the Minister for Social Affairs for making at least a heartfelt attempt, because I think she certainly does, and I will sign for the meetings that have already been about Greenland's autonomy. And I certainly hope that it can be resolved in remembrance. Otherwise, I have to say, as I said at the outset, that we have discussed the same problems in the decades after the decade, namely whether there are specific cultural matters and urban life etc. involved, and certainly there is, but then you have to try to find a solution, because we have thus reached 2016 now, and there are things that we simply can no longer accept. I see lots of strategies, I see lots of action plans, I see lots of dialogue etc., but that doesn't lead to anything. Again, I have to quote the Prime Minister directly to say that, although it is a matter of taking over, it is still the government that has the obligation of international law. That is also confirmed today by the Minister for Social Affairs, and that is the case. In our view, therefore, this is a responsibility which the government must now assume. Mrs Karin Nødgaard mentioned the figure again on the approx. 5,000 careless children, and according to Danish conditions this would be equivalent to over 500,000 careless children. So these are colossal numbers, these are numbers which are completely unheard of in the Nordic context. It's just not okay. As I have said, I have said several times about children who have Danish citizenship, so it is within the kingdom, and it is not acceptable in one of the world's best welfare societies, the kingdom of Denmark, that children are starving. We have mentioned children waiting outside children's institutions when they close this afternoon to get some of the food that may be left over and not thrown into the trash. We don't do that! This is not the case in the Kingdom of Denmark, at least not the kingdom that I know and care about. You can certainly have respect for the Greenlanders, I have great respect for Greenland and for the Greenlanders, but I have no respect for self-government, not at all, not in this matter. One has now come so far that one can say that one has tried time and time again and with changing self-governments it does not matter who sits there but there are no decisive changes taking place. I have to say that all the more respect I have for the children in this regard in relation to self-government, and what is happening is not right. I have no confidence that self-government can solve these problems, nor do I believe that self-government has it itself. There are plenty of explanations about how to lack resources. But that is clear when we are dealing with a country with a structural deficit of 750 million. kr. every year until 2040. This is equivalent to Denmark having a deficit of 80 billion. kr. every year until 2040. It would not be very easy to take special social action in such a situation. Of course you don't have the money for it, it's as simple as that. I say that if we do not take on character soon, we shall assume a great deal of responsibility. Once again, I would like to point to the touch that is so characteristic of this Parliament when it comes to Greenland. I have heard the word colonial lord today, of course, and I had expected that to happen. I wasn't called Racist, though, and I thought that was kind, thank you very much. Colony master made it. Bombers were just mentioned, that is to say, that we sent bombers out and then bombed someone, and then it was actually just to come to the rescue of Greenland's careless children. That is how it is, and that is how it is now the very, very sad form of debate here in the Folketing. I noticed that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said in her speech that it is difficult to address these problems in Greenland. I hope there will be a change, otherwise we will have the same debate in three years' time. And if I live that long and I'm also elected to the Folketing, I'm going to raise it again in 3-5 years and see where it goes. I have a feeling it's gonna land as usual. I had hoped that a warning, a yellow card, could be given to self-government if things were not sorted out. And why not? We don't do that in the Kingdom, says the Minister of Justice. No, but it could happen that you should have thought about doing it anyway. Well, well, well. The thing with which the heart is full. Thank you for that, and thank you for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152405	Thank you. And it's also getting late Friday afternoon, so there's probably a good reason for it. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152424	I would actually like to acknowledge Mr. Søren Espersen's commitment, and in particular the fact that in this debate we have, after all, also had a focus on children and young people and have maintained this focus on children and young people. Because I think that's what's important in this case. But I also think it is extremely important that it should be a nuanced debate, and I think it is important in relation to the facts that the facts are in place. And as far as the socio-economics you mentioned are concerned, it is only from 2040 that we will be missing 700 million. kr. Annually forward-looking. But yes, I can easily share your concern, including about the economy, which I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. I think it would be very good to re-open the debate in three years' time, and I certainly hope, Mr President. Søren Espersen is still alive at the time. So I would certainly like to call for that. Thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152515	Thank you. It's late Friday afternoon, but you don't have to say "you." One must endeavour to speak in a different way here in the Folketing and not use direct indictment. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152528	It's my own fault because I started talking about my faltering health. But thank you for the hope. After all, we all do. I would also like to contest this with the money, but I think we should try to find it together at some point, I would say to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. But thank you for today and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152546	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152553	When it comes to the fear of touch, Mr. Søren Espersen is absolutely right, and I signed for that before. I think it is great that, as one of the few, he has no fear of contact, either with the Faroe Islands or with Greenland. I think this is commendable, because it is the only way to get to the bottom of many cases. The other is only causing problems. But what is it, sir? Søren Espersen will? In other words, should the Greenlandic authorities be completely set aside? Should Denmark take over the authority over Greenland again, and does he seriously believe that it will solve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152628	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152629	I think it would solve the problem if the self-government were now given a yellow card and it was said: this has happened for 30 years, and now we want this to end. So a yellow card has effects, and we in the Folketing, as I also say, and especially in the government, have an obligation to keep an eye on this being respected. So, yeah, I actually think it's gonna have an effect. Sometimes getting a yellow card can boost some things. I've never drove as well as after I got my first cut in my driver's license. It's really helped. I can hardly say thank you for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152707	It looks as if there are grounds for this now, at least in relation to this question. Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, no one else has asked to speak, and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 26 January 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152733	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122152752	The draft law here will change the criteria for granting legal aid in respect of appeals lodged with international appeal bodies. There has been a large increase in the number of complaints by international review bodies, including in the number of cases brought without what can be described as reasonable grounds. Denmark, as one of the few countries in the world, provides financial legal aid to persons who complain about Denmark to international complaint And the criteria for when to get help are much less restrictive in these cases than when to apply for a free process in the Danish courts. It is worth noting that Denmark is one of the few countries which has such lenient requirements for the provision of legal aid, and therefore it is not quite unreasonable to change the criteria for when financial support can be obtained. The amendments to the draft law mean that legal aid can only be granted if the complainant has a reasonable reason to conduct the case. As mentioned above, this is also the condition for the free process in the Danish courts. In concrete terms, it will be the Civil Service Board which will be the first body to decide on the cases and thus assess whether there is a reasonable reason to conduct the case and the Board of Appeal will be an independent review body. We Social Democrats can support the proposal. We believe that it is right that the same rules should apply in Danish courts as in the case of international appeal bodies and that there is an unfairness in the fact that there are different rules in the cases and there are a number of shortcomings in the ease of access to legal aid in international appeals. The majority of the complaints concern the expulsion of rejected asylum seekers, which means that these are cases where they have been all the way through the Danish asylum processing system, where the Foreign Affairs Agency and then the Refugee Board have considered that the person concerned should not be granted asylum. In this way, the complaint can give the rejected asylum seekers the hope that their case can be changed, without there really being a reasonable chance of it, on the one hand, lawyers may think in getting rejected asylum seekers to file unfounded complaints, as lawyers have a financial gain of this and, on the other hand, it takes a huge amount of time before the cases are settled. And since we on the Danish side have chosen the lenient approach that we follow the UN committees when they ask for the deadline for leaving while the complaint is being dealt with, this means that rejected asylum seekers can think of staying in Denmark for years while the complaint is being dealt with. Of course, that is not appropriate. On the part of the Socialists, we can support the proposal here today. We think it is right that legal aid for international review bodies should be similar to the procedure that applies to the Danish courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122153115	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122153131	The proposal sets out to amend the law on legal aid and the conduct of appeals before international review bodies. Today, Denmark has a practice in which we provide legal aid in cases where Denmark is complained about by a number of UN committees. The condition for this legal aid, which, according to the comments on the proposal, typically extends to a maximum of DKr 40,000. to cover the lawyer's bill, is only that the appeal body asks Denmark to comment on the case. When, at the same time, situations arise where many of these complaints bodies uncritically accept cases where the conditions of appeal are not met or the committee's own procedural rules are not complied with, it naturally calls for action. I recognise that the proposal is a step in the right direction, as we are moving on to narrow down the possibility of being able to complain so that the complainants have to meet the conditions. This possibility is something that many have taken advantage of, although the cases are indeed very thorough in Denmark, and while the complaints are going on, for example. then rejected asylum seekers are not expelled from the country. The current rules therefore constitute a direct obstacle to the expulsion of persons who should not be resident in Denmark. Right now, it is a clear improvement to allow the Civil Service Board to decide whether it should be possible for the process to be free and, for that matter, also to make the Board of Appeal. From the Danish People's Party we would like to see cases in Denmark, where we have a thorough and fair system in every way possible, kept in Denmark, understood in the sense that we would like to see complaints that want to involve UN bodies in these cases, for example, should bear the cost themselves, because it should not be a task that Danish taxpayers should support. However, as I said, the proposal is moving in the right direction and we look forward to discussing the proposal further in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122153331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122153342	When you have a dispute in Denmark where you think you have a right to another person, you can take legal action. In this context, it is possible to apply for a free procedure, i.e. the State pays the costs of the trial, both the court fees and the corresponding lawyers' fees. The conditions for the free movement of goods are, in addition to fulfilling the economic conditions, that there are reasonable grounds for conducting the proceedings, and that is stated in section 328 of the Code of Procedure. So there must be reasonable reason if two people in Denmark want to bring a trial against each other. On the other hand, if you want to complain to an international body about its legal status under the human rights conventions, there is no need for reasonableness, and frankly, that seems quite strange. It happens that complaints are made to the UN committees, for example, and as soon as they send a letter to the Danish government, it is triggered per year. automatically a lawyer's fee up to DKK 40,000. plus VAT, and the final bill can, moreover, be much, much higher, for the payment of the Treasury. It is an automatic system which we do not think is at all reasonable for the time being to remain in the name, and rightly so. It should be if two Danes were to sue each other here in Denmark, and it should also be if you complain to these committees in the hope of getting free process or legal aid, or whatever we call it. So we can therefore welcome the fact that this reasonable requirement now comes into the law here on legal aid in the event of a complaint to international bodies. We can also welcome the fact that there is a complete equivalence with the rules of the free process, in that it is the Civil Service that makes the decision and that, if you are unhappy with it, you can refer that decision to the Board of Procedure, just like the free procedure here. Last but not least, I would like to stress that there is absolutely no restriction on people's formal ability to complain to these bodies. There is whether you want to use the term, the cut-back, it may be a wrong term to use the phrase "that if you want to have a free process, there must also be a reasonable reason to conduct the matter, and that is nothing but a reasonable requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122153616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122153633	In these weeks, a very broad majority in the Parliamentary Assembly is carrying out an urgent procedure for legislation which, in a large number of areas, undermines the rights of asylum seekers and refugees. In relation to a single part of the legislation, namely the almost country-famous bill no. L 87 from the government to cut off refugees with temporary protection status from the right to apply for family reunification for a 3-year period, the government writes directly in the comments to the bill that there is in fact a risk that the European Court of Human Rights will establish that the Danish rules are contrary to the Human Rights Convention. It is in this situation and in the circumstances that the same government is now proposing new rules restricting the possibility of receiving legal aid when complaints are made to the Court of Human Rights and a number of UN committees, that is to say the bill we have here. If you compare the two things, it is difficult not to get the idea that things are a little related, that is, that the inferior legal situation of asylum seekers and refugees in Danish society could lead to more complaints before the Court of Human Rights and in the United Nations system, and since such complaints are annoying, you might say, for the government, the same government will now try to severely restrict the possibility of legal aid and thus limit the number of complaints. In the Enhedslisten we do not believe that the statements of the various UN committees are always above all criticism. In fact, we have seen statements from the United Nations system which do not seem to be based directly on the same solid legal considerations as in the case of the European Court of Human Rights. And in the comments to the bill, the Ministry of Justice also provides a number of examples of cases that the UN committees should have rejected in advance, and in some of those cases it is difficult to disagree with the Ministry of Justice. On the other hand, we in the Enhedslisten also agree with Danish Refugee Aid, which, in their response to the hearing, points out that legal aid should not be rejected as a starting point for appeal proceedings by an international appeal body concerning the decisions of the Refugee Board in cases relating to the assessment of evidence. And that's what the bill's gonna do. As Danish Refugee Aid also writes in its hearing reply to the Minister of Justice, there may be errors in the Refugee Board's evidence assessment. It's happening. That is why it would be more fair for specific cases to decide whether or not legal aid can be granted, rather than excluding all cases dealing with an equal assessment of evidence. So in the Enhedslisten we are prepared to take a critical view of some of the decisions of the UN committees. However, in most cases, which concern asylum seekers, which are often quite indiscreet, a right of appeal should also be granted, at least as a starting point. And let me remind you that the Foreign Minister, as she is called, has just written in a recent reply that within the last 50 years there has not been a single case in which an asylum seeker has come to Denmark with a suitcase full of diaments, as has otherwise been claimed. So there is no doubt that we are dealing with a group that actually needs legal aid when they are allowed to complain. It is therefore also quite unreasonable that the criticism of a UN system, which does not work optimally, should be able to harm asylum seekers and others who do not have much money. Instead, we in Denmark should become more involved in UN issues and work to improve the quality of both the work and the decisions. So, as you can hear, Enhedslisten is skeptical of the bill. We would probably have been more inclined to listen to arguments that the UN committees would not sufficiently reject complaints to Denmark if it had not come from a government which, with the other hand, tightens the law on foreigners and, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has put it, accepts that there is a procedural risk, that is, a risk that Denmark will be convicted of violating human rights. In this situation, therefore, the time has not come to restrict access to legal aid too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154114	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154122	The proposal here is, in fact, a minor part of a greater understanding of some foreign policy constraints on which a number of parties were close to agreeing before the New Year. The Liberal Alliance has insisted on the point of departure, namely that we are, of course, behind what the parties were de facto agreed on, and therefore also this proposal. There has been an increase in the number of appeals which have not been found to be a reasonable reason to initiate, and therefore the rules are amended in such a way that legal aid is granted only if complaints have a reasonable reason to conduct the case. It is completely in line with the conditions for free process in the Danish courts, and the parallelity we like to see created by the Liberal Alliance. At the same time, it is possible to complain so that the matter can be referred to the Court of First Instance if you are not satisfied that you have not received the legal aid that you would like. So we think there are some proper guarantees that where legal aid is needed, it can still be obtained if you are rejected on an unfounded basis, and thus the matter is in the fairest order: that those who need help can get it, but that there is not a system that currently exists that is too much being abused in reality. So that is a good balance and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154302	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154307	How will the rapporteur define reasonable grounds?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154314	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154315	It is also the case, if you look at what has been said, that what is being proposed is that legal aid can only be granted in cases where the criterion that there is a reasonable reason for bringing complaints has been met, which is also today, that is to say, I assume that it must be exactly the same as it is today. That would be what would be expected when you look at the proposal. That is, of course, the parallelism that is being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154356	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154359	Once again, I have to ask the rapporteur what the definition of'reasonable ground' is, because what we are discussing today is legal aid for international appeal bodies, for example. The UN committees. When I ask the specific question, it is of course because the Lawyer Society has pointed out that they do not think that it is defined. So I have to ask the rapporteur again what the definition of reasonable grounds, which is quite essential in this discussion, is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154425	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154426	It is clear that if you ask the same question, you get the same answer, and that was the same question as the rapporteur himself said that you wanted to ask again. That is why I can only maintain that it says that it would be like the conditions under which there is a free trial in the courts, and that is why the answer is that we assume that there is a parallelism in the two things. However, if there are things that need to be worked out during the committee procedure that can clarify it further if there are doubts, then I am sure that the Minister of Justice will make himself available for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154501	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154509	Thank you. The draft law amends the conditions under which legal aid can be brought and brought against Denmark by international review bodies. This is done by adding the requirement that the complainant should have a reasonable reason to conduct the appeal. However, in the future it must be possible to appeal against a refusal from the Civil Service Board to the Board of Appeal. Of course, we agree with the view that legal aid should be used appropriately. Therefore, it also seems justified that complaints to human rights appeal bodies must comply with the formal conditions of appeal before legal aid can be received. I have the impression that the legal aid regulation, as it now operates, poses a risk that the kind of complaints which are not based on a reasonable reason can help to undermine the system of complaints, as they simply overburden the system. It also seems natural that we should respond to the fact that the UN committees are following a different practice for the screening of cases from that expected for the introduction of the legal aid regulation. The legal aid regulation is based on a condition that the international appeal bodies consider the subject matter of the complaint and whether the conditions for appeal are met before the Government is requested to comment. However, since this condition can no longer be expected to be valid, new needs have arisen for the grounds of the complaint to be considered reasonable before legal aid can be granted. It is also the same conditions that are imposed in order to obtain a free process in the Danish courts. It goes without saying that we must be very careful in such cases so that there can be no doubt as to whether legal certainty is maintained. It is therefore essential to maintain the original objective of the legal aid regulation, namely to provide assistance to those citizens who have a genuine human rights complaint. The sorting of complaints must in no way take place on the basis of Denmark's own criteria of relevance, but on the basis of what the relevant complaints bodies consider to be admissible. In this context, we should call on the Minister to take particular note of the series of recommendations for drafting the observations of the draft law drawn up by the Institute for Human Rights, for example. that the observations made by the draft law stress that the Civil Service Board and the Administrative Authorisation Board should base their assessment on the practice of the appeal bodies and that legal aid may be refused only if it is apparent that complaints do not comply with the formal conditions of appeal. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the proposal introducing a right of appeal to the Board of Appeal so that the refusal of legal aid can be brought before an independent body. In our view, this is a very positive and also necessary measure so that legal certainty is not compromised by the amendment to the law on legal aid. Overall, we welcome the proposal in the alternative and look forward to discussing in committee whether the comments made by the Institute for Human Rights specifically on clarification of the comments contained in the draft law can be taken into account. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154752	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154759	The draft law L 97 introduces new conditions for obtaining legal aid to bring complaints against Denmark by international human rights review bodies. So far, the criterion has been that legal aid is granted when the appeal body has accepted the case and asked the Danish Government for legal observations. An additional criterion is now proposed that the Danish authorities should make an assessment of whether there are reasonable grounds for conducting the complaint. The aim is therefore to achieve a substantial reduction in legal aid cases and thus a substantial reduction in the number of appeals. The Radical Left agrees that no legal aid should be granted in cases where the formal conditions for appeal have not been met. However, the introduction of the requirement for a reasonable basis has the consequence that the decision as to whether or not to grant legal aid in a specific case is no longer taken by the international appeal body, but by the Danish authorities. And we cannot support this because these complaints bodies are already carrying out a screening and an assessment of whether there is a reasonable basis for conducting the complaint. And they have, if anyone, the necessary special knowledge of the conventions for which they are responsible. We therefore find the draft law somewhat unnecessary and legally questionable, because the proposal will have consequences for citizens or groups of persons who do not have the opportunity to pay for legal assistance themselves and because it is a serious matter. We are critical of the bill and will ask some questions to the Minister, but as it looks now, we find it difficult to agree to take the competences of the international review bodies and let the Danish authorities decide whether there is any reasonable reason to pursue a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122154959	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155011	This bill introduces new conditions to get legal aid to file and bring complaints against Denmark by international human rights appeal bodies. Today legal aid is granted if an international appeal body has received a complaint against Denmark and the appeal body has requested the Danish Government for legal observations. The draft law adds a requirement that the complainant should have reasonable grounds when I raised the question of a reasonable reason to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance and would also like to take it up with the Minister, I would perhaps also like to have it done a little more, as this is something that the Lawyers' community is concerned with in its hearing response. They write: "The requirement of a reasonable basis, which is not exhaustively defined in the legislative work, implies that the formal conditions of appeal must be fulfilled and a lot of other things. When it comes from the Lawyers' Society, I think we need to have a discussion about it. I also think it makes an impression that a large number of organisations, to which we at least normally listen in the SF in this area, have asked critical questions and submitted critical consultation responses. This is among other things. Department of Human Rights, SOS against Racism, Danish Refugee Aid, Legal Policy Association, Association of Foreign Justice Attorneys and Lawyers' Council. In the consultation table, the Ministry and the Minister have then commented on some of the criticisms, but not fully in my view, and that is something that we will also raise with the Minister in committee. I think there is reason to highlight some of the answers to some of the consultations. In Danish Refugee Aid they say: "Danish Refugee Aid considers it essential for the scheme that the assessment of whether there are reasonable grounds for bringing a complaint is not too restrictive and that the assessment takes into account the very serious nature of the cases. You also write: "It is mentioned here that the cases deal with the risk of expulsion to persecution, torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The Danish Refugee Service therefore believes that it is appropriate to take a specific position on individual cases and that these cases should not be ruled out in advance in relation to legal aid. Then, like my colleague from the Alternative, I would also like to hear the Minister's comments on the very concrete recommendations made by the Institute for Human Rights. There Mrs Josephine Fock highlighted certain recommendations and I would like to highlight a few others, namely that legal aid is rejected only if it is evident that complaints do not comply with the formal conditions of appeal. This is a little in line with the consultation response from the Lawyer Society, namely that there are some of these things that we need to have clear definitions of. As my colleague from the Enhedslisten, Mrs Pernille Skipper, said, there is reason to criticise certain decisions which the Ministry and the Minister also mention in some of the background material. But you throw out the baby with the bathwater in SF's optics. So, you take some critical cases and then you make it extremely difficult to provide the legal aid that we think we should still give away. So these are some of the specific questions to the Minister. I hope that we can get some answers here or else we will take it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155354	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155407	Well, I would like to go straight to the conclusion that we can support the proposal and think it quite natural that there is a parallelism between what is applicable in the Danish courts and what is to apply internationally. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155424	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155436	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for today's debate and the largely positive reception of the draft law. There has been an increase in the number of appeals brought without reasonable cause by international appeal bodies. Often it is a question of rejecting asylum seekers for no reasonable reason lodging a complaint with a UN committee in order to avoid being sent out. We cannot do much about that on the Danish side, but it is not fair that we should pay a lawyer's bill for those concerned. Denmark is one of the few countries in the world that provides legal aid to persons who complain to international complaint bodies. Today, it is only a condition for obtaining legal aid that the International Complaint Body has asked the Danish Government for so-called legal comments on the case. In this context, the legal aid scheme introduced in 1999 under the then SR government is based on the assumption that the international review bodies will consider whether the conditions for appeal have been met before the government is asked for legal consideration. However, there are more and more examples of cases in which the UN committees do not follow the terms of the complaint or consider the matter further before the complaint is sent to the Danish Government. The UN committees are thus used as a general appeal body in relation to the Danish authorities' decision on the matter. This has never been the intention of either the individual right of appeal or the legal aid system. Unfortunately, the current form of the legal aid system supports that the UN committees are being used as a way of re-examining a case which has been assessed by several bodies for no reasonable reason. This is particularly true in the area of asylum. Later years of practice by the UN committees show that rejected asylum seekers are making a complaint to a UN committee in order to avoid being deployed, which they are otherwise obliged to do following the decision of the Refugee Board. There is therefore a need to amend the rules on legal aid in order to ensure that legal aid is granted only in cases where there are reasonable grounds for doing so. The draft law lays down that in future there must be reasonable grounds for bringing the complaint before the Treasury pays for legal aid. Such an arrangement corresponds to what is applicable to the free process in the Danish courts. A right of appeal is also proposed to the Board of Appeal. This means that refusal of legal aid could be brought before an independent body. In future, if there are reasonable grounds for bringing the appeal, this means, inter alia, that the conditions of appeal of the international appeal body must be met before legal aid is granted. Thus, legal aid is not to be paid in a case which has not been settled by the Danish authorities. Nor will legal aid be required in cases where the complainant has brought an action before a UN committee if the complainant has previously tried to have the complaint dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights but has been rejected as unfounded. In addition to the conditions of appeal, there will also have to be a reasonable prospect of an infringement of the convention in question before legal aid is granted. In general, therefore, legal aid will not have to be granted in complaints which relate solely or principally to questions relating to the Danish authorities' assessment of evidence, e.g.: the credibility of an asylum seeker's explanation. It follows from the practice of the international review bodies that the national authorities are better suited than the appeal bodies to assess the evidence presented in a case. This is related to the fact that the Danish courts and the Refugee Board, contrary to the Boards of Appeal, as a general rule, deal with the cases according to an oral procedure, in which the complainant and any witnesses are explained in the course of the proceedings. The Courts and the Refugee Board are therefore better placed to assess the credibility of these explanations than the UN committees, which are only presented with the matter on a written basis and where no critical questions are put to the complainant. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155847	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155910	The debate is open. We are embarking on the series of rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122155932	Rape is a nasty form of crime. No means no, and there must never be any doubt about that. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister of Justice wants to tighten up the punishment for the harmful crime. It is also positive that the former Minister of Justice initiated an analysis work to ensure that we know the problems of existing efforts. And it is with great satisfaction that we in the Social Democratic Party note that the new Minister for Justice has followed up this work and will launch a number of initiatives in addition to those we are discussing here today in the near future. I would like to start by saying that punishment can never stand alone when we talk about rape. I do not believe that punishment in itself solves the problems, but it may be part of the solution, which is why I would also like to say that we support the draft law here today, but that we need to have a discussion on the further initiatives that need to be put in place to tackle this issue. Specifically, the bill we are discussing here today must ensure that the level of punishment for rape and for intercourse with a child under the age of 15, by exploiting his physical or mental superiority, is strengthened. There is a general increase in the penalty for forced intercourse by violence or threats of violence and for sexual intercourse with a child under 12 years of age and for sexual intercourse with a child under 15 years of age by exploiting its physical or psychological superiority, and that is in the order of one year. We think that is fair. In addition, the draft law provides for a general increase in the penalty for intercourse by other unlawful coercion or by a person who is in a state or situation in which he is unable to oppose the act and that is in the order of six months in relation to the applicable level of punishment. At the same time, the bill provides that the penalty for false accusations concerning rape and sexual crimes against children is being tightened up. It is difficult to talk about, because the false declarations must never, never, nor can we escape the fact that it is violent to be accused of abuses that have not been committed. Therefore, it is also important, of course, to signal that you do not report for fun; however, it does not cover the fact that we need to focus on the too many abuses that are committed, the focus on the far too many rapes that are committed, and that is also why what is about punishment for the perpetrators is mostly in this bill. It is also proposed that the administration should be strengthened and I understand that the Minister for Justice will present it this week, and we look forward to it very much. Yesterday we were also gathered here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and then we submitted a report on a number of proposed initiatives which relate specifically to the procedure and everything that goes beyond the penalty. And I think it is incredibly important that we land this issue together, that we come together to find solutions to this very unacceptable issue. We also need to strengthen prevention. We must ensure that more cases are reported and we must ensure that more cases lead to legal proceedings, that there is a better treatment of victims. It must never be the case that the victim feels guilty. And above all, we must prevent rape and abuse from occurring at all. It must be our allegiance's most important task to ensure that we reduce the number of abuses committed in practice. I would like to make it clear once again that we Socialists want to intervene with all the tools in the fight against rape and abuse. This is an incredibly important fight. I would urge that we stand together across the parties of the Folketing. We in the Social Democratic Party support the increased penalties that we are discussing here today, and we look forward to the Minister for Justice presenting both the preventive initiatives and the initiatives relating to the processing of cases. But we can support the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160445	Thank you. There is one person who wanted to make a brief comment, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160449	I would like to ask the rapporteur what is the rapporteur's view of the fact that this draft law also takes on board the principle that the penalty must be higher if rape is committed by someone you do not know, that is to say a penalty is added if, for example, it is committed by someone you do not know. takes place on the open street and is committed by someone you don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160515	We support the proposal as it stands here. We fully recognise that this is an extremely difficult issue we are discussing here, but we support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160525	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160526	I may have been able to express myself a little unconcern or imprecise, but the bill says, and I would like to read it out: that this is an attack, for example. However, by the fact that the victim is subjected to a sudden attack on a public place where the victim goes alone, or in his own home, where the perpetrator has entered, generally constitutes an aggravating circumstance... This is the reason why the starting point for the sentence is higher in cases of assault rape. ▪ It may sound intuitively true that there must be a higher penalty if you are attacked on the street, but all research shows that it can be more traumatic to be raped by someone you actually trust and trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160614	I fully admit that this is a difficult issue and that it is difficult to discuss the reasonableness of making a difference between the abuses, but what I am aware of is that there is always a judge who will ultimately have to assess the specific case. That is why, in any case, we will take as our starting point the actual abuse, how it has been committed and in what context, and on that basis we will be carrying out the punishment. I think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160643	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Tilde Bork. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160653	Here we are discussing a bill which aims to tighten up the penalties for rape and for sexual intercourse with children under the age of 15 by exploiting physical or psychological superiority. In addition, the draft law provides for an increase in the penalty for false accusations of rape and sexual crimes against children. This is a positive move on the part of the government, as the current level of punishment does not reflect how serious such abuse can be. This type of abuse is one of the worst violations one can experience as a person, and unfortunately we often see that the victims subsequently receive both physical and psychological but. At the same time, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is positive that the bill provides for a tightening of the penalty for false accusations of rape, as false accusations may have serious consequences for the party involved, for example. prison term. In the Danish People's Party, however, we would have liked the government to have chosen to tighten up the penalties for rape further. After all, this is a step along the way, which is why we can also support the proposal. At the same time, we will be looking forward to the committee's reading, and then I personally am very much looking forward to seeing the other initiatives that the government will follow up to ensure the best conditions for the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160816	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur of the Left. It's Mrs. Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122160830	Today, we are the first to deal with the draft law amending the criminal code. It is a legislative proposal which aims firstly to tighten up the penalties for rape and secondly to tighten up the penalties for sexual intercourse with a child under the age of 15. Rape and child abuse are among the most terrible crimes that exist. No one in this Chamber can disagree with that. In both cases, the victim is seriously offended, and this often has enormous consequences for a long time after the attack itself has taken place. The government has long since stated that it wants to take a cash course against rapists. The cash rate is now reflected in an increased level of punishment. The punishments are a step in the right direction, and this very much reflects the position of the Left on this kind of abuse. In addition to increasing the penalty for rape, the proposal also lays down a stricter penalty for false accusations of rape. In other words, those who make false accusations will also feel an increased sanction. It believes that the Left is a logical consequence of tightening up the penalties for rape, because, just as rape is a serious crime, a false accusation of rape is serious and intimidating for the person being falsely accused. We in the Left believe that this proposal reflects this in a sensible way, and on that basis we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161011	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. This is Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161032	Rape is a very, very terrible crime. Sexual abuse of children is also quite, quite awful. I don't think I'm gonna try to put into words the atrocities you have to live through when you're exposed to something like that. So I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten can support the idea of punishment both for rape and for sexual violations of children. I must admit that this is far from being the first thing we would have chosen to do to prevent these forms of crime if we could choose on all shelves among the possible and much-needed measures. As most of the consultations point out, there is not really any indication that punishments will lead to fewer abuse or, moreover, make it easier for victims to move forward. So, frankly, it's more a matter of showing muscle with this bill than really solving something. If we are to do something for children who have been subjected to sexual abuse, we should do something, for example. increase prevention and treatment efforts much more. We should extend the use of children's houses and also consider introducing a grooming clause into the criminal code, as several child organisations also point out. To do something for the victims of rape, make sure that the police take reviews more seriously. We must extend aid, including financial aid, to women who want to leave violent spouses, and then we must put an end to the delusion that exists about the victims of rape. A lot of women don't dare report rape. The latest victim survey I think it was from the Ministry of Justice said something like that only 25% are reporting. Other studies have said even fewer. Many people dare, among other things. do not report it because they are afraid of being subjected to shame and guilt, that is to say it is pointed out that it is their own fault or that you may not be believed in. At the same time, therefore, there is too much a myth today that there should be some particularly serious problems with false reports of rape compared to other crimes. It is a classic myth of rape that there are many false reviews, that women lie, that they want revenge on the ex, or that they actually said yes, but regretted later, or that they were ashamed of how drunk they had become, and then they better report it as rape. But it's not real. There is no greater problem with false reports of rape than with other crimes. But the existence of the myth helps to apologize and dismiss the abuses that are actually taking place. It's not just something I think. It is also something that all the organisations working with victims of rape point out. It is a dangerous myth, and it can cause fewer people to report the fear of not being believed in. It can cause even more people not to believe in women or to condemn women who talk about abuse. This may help to justify minor abuse or trigger a lack of seriousness in relation to the situation. I believe that the government is puffing into the myth when one then unbearably links punishments for rape with punishments for false reviews, not to mention false reviews in general, but specifically for rape and sexual crimes against children. It is unfair, it is harmful, because it sends out a signal that there should be a particular problem with false reports in connection with rape. That's why I have to call it sexism, because that's how I see it. There is a link between mistrust and this type of crime, which affects women in particular and which not only affects women but also affects women on their sex and their right to self-determination, their sexuality. It is a form of crime which is more about power and oppression than it is about actual sex. There are already extremely serious problems with the victims being condemned and not being treated properly. The Enhedslisten will go into this committee's work and ask for the bill to be split into two so that we can send a very, very clear signal that the government has been wrong when they've linked these two things together and that there is therefore no particular problem with false rape reports. Rather, there is a problem with the fact that far too few women have enough confidence in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161547	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161551	Thank you very much. I am aware that Mrs Pernille Skipper is talking about myths. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper really believe that myths should determine what political initiatives we take here at Christiansborg, here in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161609	I have a little doubt as to what Mrs Britt Baker really is asking me. If Mrs Britt Baker asks me whether I think it is a bad idea for legislation to breathe into myths and make myths worse, then I will say yes. That's what I was trying to spend five minutes telling you here. If Mrs Britt Baker asks me whether we should pretend that these myths are real, then I will say no. That's exactly what my appeal is here. This bill sounds like the myth that false rape reports are a bigger problem than reports of other crimes is real. So I will turn it around and say: if the government does not believe that its legislation should be based on myths, then they should not have tabled this bill, and then they should at least support it up to divide it up into two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161659	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161701	Thank you. We didn't get much closer than that. Then I'll try to clarify it a little more. Does it make no sense for Mrs Pernille Skipper that when we treat rape together, we also treat false rape reports in the same round? And can't Mrs Pernille Skipper understand at all that as well as an assault, a rape is a terrible crime, is it also a terrible crime to be falsely accused of having committed it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161742	I think Mrs Britt Baker may misunderstand the whole point on purpose; I think so. Because I have never said that being exposed to false accusations is not extremely serious because it is, and it can destroy a person's life. So I really don't have a problem with us talking about that. I have a problem with linking false reports specifically to a tightening up of the penalties for rape, because you are sending a signal or you are going to send a signal if it is not on purpose that there should be a particularly big problem with false reports of rape. I just think that Mrs Britt Baker owes it very clearly to say that there is no such thing and that the two things are not necessarily connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161824	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161827	Thank you. I believe that both the rapporteur and I fully agree that, in cases of false notification, the hammer must also fall, and we must be very consistent because it is extremely devastating for those who suffer, just as it is with false reports of violence and in all sorts of other areas. Now, of course, the rapporteur has been a legal rapporteur for some time, and I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether she can remember that in the many, many cases that have been submitted to Parliament, there has been an example before where there has been a debate on punishment in one area and, at the same time, it has been coupled with a penalty for a false notification in the same area. Does the rapporteur remember that this has happened before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122161909	I have not been in the Folketing for more than a little more than five years, but I have, after all, been involved in dealing with a lot of punishments in a lot of different areas, and I have never heard of the fact that per year is the same. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It is also necessary to tighten up the penalties for false notification in this area. That connection has never been there before. If it had been customary to do so, I think that neither I nor the many, many organizations that have criticized the government for this connection would have been so angry that the level of punishment for false rape had been linked in this direct way with a punishment for rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162002	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is resigning. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We go to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162023	Both rape and sexual abuse of children are some of the most vile forms of crime that exist, and the Liberal Alliance has long had a desire to tighten up the penalties for both. Yeah, you can get the urge to punish yourself sometimes, but you have to stay away from it. Generally speaking, we want there to be a tougher level of punishment for both rape and child abuse, whether or not they are of a sexual nature, violence and threats, so this bill is actually very good for us. Of course, we would have liked to have gone more to the macrons, so to speak, and had increased the penalties somewhat more than the government is proposing. We'll have to do that at a later date. I think it was the Left Socialists, perhaps taken over by the Enhedslisten, who had the principle that every step in the right direction should be supported, and we will then choose to do so in this matter, because it is going in the direction we want. Then there is also the debate on false accusations of rape, and it can be said that we can always discuss whether it should be in the same proposal or not and the correct one, but I think it is quite fundamental that it is true that there is a link between the level of punishment for crimes and the level of punishment for false declarations for the crimes in question. This could in fact be something you could go through in a greater context in reality and look at whether you should punish false declarations more severely than you do today and whether there is the right proportionality so that it corresponds to the offence that a possible false accusation is about. Although we can discuss the link between the two, I think it would be strange that the conclusion of that would be to vote against. If we now agree with element one and agree with element two, then for our sakes it may not matter, then we can in fact vote in favour of the whole legislative proposal, since we are in favour of both. I think it is also important to recognise that false notification is, of course, also a bad thing to be exposed to and that it has consequences for the one it might be about. However, the main focus of the bill and the main focus for us in the Liberal Alliance in this matter are, of course, the punishments in relation to rape and to sexual abuse of children, which I started by saying in our optics are some of the most violent and serious crimes, and therefore are things that we must fight hard against. We have also been discussing very recently here in the Parliamentary Assembly whether there are other things that can be done in relation to rape, and we have always been very concerned that the authorities are always able to receive victims of serious crimes in the right way, so that the administration itself does not become a further burden on those who are subjected to an attack. All in all, however, there are three good elements that we all support, and that is why we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162423	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162426	Thank you. Since there is not a great deal of debate about the actual increase in the penalty for sexual abuse of children and for rape in general, I would like to focus on some of the points that the rapporteur also raised, namely the link between false reports and rape. This is one of the things we have discussed in many other forums, i.e. this culture of suspicion, which some people in New Danish would call final shaming. Does the rapporteur remember that before, when the rapporteur has had cases in the Chamber, there were legislative proposals linking an increase in penalties to an increase in penalties for false notification?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162513	Not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162516	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162518	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that it is quite a coincidence that it is precisely in the field of rape that one of the problems that people who report rape say they are encountering is suspicion and that this is: were you not even a little bit into it, and maybe it is just a false complaint you have filed? Does the rapporteur think that it is quite a coincidence that it is in this area that we are meeting it for the first time? I have certainly not been able to find anyone else, even when I have asked outside the Chamber, who has remembered that an increase in penalties was linked to an increase in penalties for false notification. Is that a coincidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162555	I think it is important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth here. First of all, it appeared, among other things. by my rapporteur's speech, that we are very concerned about how authorities receive people who report crimes, especially when they are really serious crimes such as rape, sexual abuse, moreover, and these could be hate crimes and other things. Here it is really important that there is a professional handling of what does not make it harder and worse for the victim. This is absolutely essential for us in the Liberal Alliance. In addition, I would say that it is often the case in various governments that you try to see whether there are some things that have a common heading, and then it comes in the same proposal. That is why I think we should be careful about such a suspicion that there should be a dull motive here. I think it's because there's been a discussion about false rape reports. I do not know how much discussion there has been about other groups of crimes where there have been false reports. I think that's the explanation. So I think you should be careful not to go too far in your suspicions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162704	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162707	I think the rapporteur is quite right about that. In other words, there has been a discussion about false rape reports and that it is often said and talked about that it is a particular problem. But I think that when we have to make legislation, we should do so on a factual basis. And this is not a general question of raising the penalty for false accusations. It is a question of specifically raising the penalty for false accusations of rape and sexual crimes against children. In that light, does the rapporteur not see that it can send a pretty bad signal? And is it not correct, in the rapporteur's view, that even though false reports for rape are more discussed, this is not really a bigger problem than false declarations for other crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162815	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is my view that there should be a link between what crimes we punish severely and what the penalty for false notification of a crime is. And, as I also said, I think it is indeed an area in which we need to look at whether it is generally the case that there is the right proportionality between those things. Because, as the author also said in his rapporteur's speech, it is very violent for people who are being accused of falsehood. We agree on that. I also think that we should be careful not to seek out a conflict. Because I do not believe that the government is interested in doing something bad for those who are potentially in danger of being raped. On the contrary, I believe that the government we have now takes this issue very seriously in terms of both punishment and the other elements that I understand we are going to a meeting of the Ministry of Justice on as early as next week. So I think we should be pleased together that there has been a government that takes this issue very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162933	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122162935	I would therefore like to begin by welcoming the fact that we have a Minister of Justice who has continued the initiatives taken by the former Minister of Justice. And I would also agree with the rapporteur that the government has not done this to be malicious or because it does not take the problem seriously. And I am sorry if I have put it that way, because I do not think so. I think it's a mistake, a stupid mistake. If we look at the hearings, I think we can see that there are at least six organisations working with victims of rape who have said that this is an unfortunate link. Could not the Liberal Alliance, on the basis of their settings, share the two things in order to send the opposite signal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163018	You cannot deny that there are some of those who are very much concerned with a single subject... it may be this or others who are sometimes a little affected by tunnel vision and therefore also see ghosts in the design of even a bill, to put it that way. But I will certainly not deny that we can share in dividing up the bill if it makes a big difference to anyone that it will be. In the Liberal Alliance we often ask for something separate, but we must of course also bear in mind that the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure has agreed that legislative proposals should only be divided if there are significant reasons for this. This may be an important substantive difference in the things that are in the proposal or something that may be about conciliation bindings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163106	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163110	Thank you for the floor. I would like to recognise the Liberal Alliance in order to highlight the fact that the authorities in all cases must take proper account of reports, and that is what we know is not happening today in relation to rape victims. So I very much appreciate hearing that, and that is one of the things we must continue to do. Then we're discussing this with the division of the bill, and that's actually why I got up. For what I also hear the Liberal Alliance say is: let us then have a general talk about what the level of penalties for false notifications should be. And to use the rapporteur's own expression to keep his tongue straight in his mouth, I think we should keep our tongues straight in our mouths, in relation to what this bill is for, and that is, of course, to tighten up the penalties for committing rape against minors. So I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance once again whether the Liberal Alliance could be involved in a proposal to split this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163211	I have already replied that I will not deny that this is what we can achieve, but I think we should have a dialogue on that in committee, because, as I referred to, a recommendation has been made in the past, at least in relation to the discussion we have had in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, on when we are doing it and when we are not doing it. However, we are generally one of the parties that has been most open to divide proposals into two if there is a wish to do so. So let us talk about it when we get to committee. In addition, I would also just like to say that you also have to be careful sometimes to sit around and look at legislative proposals and think that it is just a linking of things that affects it out there in the real world. I think this bill will have an effect alone because of the punishments for violence and rape, whether the last element had been included or not. And I also believe that we will have a good dialogue with the government and the Minister for Justice on what other measures can be taken, so that we can also strengthen it on something other than the punishment side. I would assume that is something that we can work with the Alternative on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163320	Mrs. Josephine Fock? Apostates. Then we shall have no further brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Alternative, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163341	Thank you. The aim of the bill, as we have already heard here today, is to increase the penalty for imposing sexual intercourse by violence or threat of violence with a child under 12 years of age and for intercourse with a child under 15 years of age by exploiting his physical or mental superiority. At the same time, it proposes to tighten up the penalties for false accusations as regards rape and sexual crimes against children. The draft law provides for a general increase in the penalty in the order of one year in relation to the applicable level of penalties. It also provides for a general increase in the penalty for sexual intercourse by other unlawful coercion or by a person in a state or situation in which the person concerned is unable to oppose the act, in the order of six months in relation to the applicable level of punishment. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the sensitive and serious nature of this issue. These are horrible crimes, and sexual crimes against children are one of the worst things people can fall into, and that arouses the deepest feelings of sorrow, anger and vindictiveness in all of us. But grief, anger and vindictiveness are not what we in a modern society have to take as a basis when we determine penalties. I basically don't believe that 1 year's extra prison is what makes the perpetrator stop unfortunately. Punishment does not lead to less abuse, but I wish it were! It is essential to set moral and ideological targets for what a modern welfare society such as ours is seeking to achieve with punishment, and in the alternative, we believe that, particularly in the case of violent crime, it is the victim's sense of justice and the security of the citizens, which must be at the heart of what action is to be taken in the wake of a criminal act. The alternative is therefore that both the sense of justice and the general legal certainty of society will be better served by using the opportunities and resources that are set aside for longer prison sentences to better treat the perpetrators and, more importantly, much, much better help to the victims. The alternative does not believe that more punishment alone benefits or creates less crime, and that is why we are basically opposed to the proposal to set up the penalty framework for false notification, and we are simply for the simple reason that it will not create fewer false notifications. I have to say that I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper's remarks regarding false reviews and the discussion we have had from the platform, and from here we would like to support the split of the bill into two so that we get completely clean lines and so that, with the words of the Liberal Alliance, we can say that we keep our tongues straight in our mouths. In the alternative, we have been in contact with the Centre for Rape Victims and they have made proposals to help victims of rape. They consider, inter alia, that there is a need for increased funding to follow the recommendations set out in the Danish Health Authority's report • Treatment offers at centres for the reception of rape victims • from 2012, which include: allows for treatment no matter how long has elapsed since the attack. The lack of funding also means that the treatment at many of the centres is limited to about five psychological conversations. Increasing the opportunities for psychotherapy in the country's centres for rape victims will save rape victims and their families too much suffering, but it will also be a social gain. Such additional funding would, in the opinion of the Alternative, be more beneficial than the funding that we now have to set aside to increase the penalty by one year. Because of the nature of the offence, it is right to want stricter penalties, and we are in the alternative of thinking that this is an insanely difficult issue, because we all want to ensure that this kind of abuse stops. However, we also believe that going the other way and ensuring that we allocate far more funds for the greater benefit of rape victims and ensuring that rape victims receive proper treatment from the authorities is the way forward. So I will conclude my speech by saying that we look forward to the committee reading. We would like to support splitting up the proposal, which is why I would like to wait until we can see how we can proceed in committee on whether we support an increased penalty for rape victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163828	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163831	I would like to start by thanking Mrs Josephine Fock for being so honest to report that the alternative basically does not believe in higher penalties. That is not all that is at issue here. There will be a rape package from the Minister for Justice shortly, so this is actually a proposal that goes on more than one leg. But that makes me a little curious, because if the alternative is not in favour of higher punishment, what does Mrs Josephine Fock think is appropriate? Is this the level we have now, or is this an even lower level of punishment we are going to have for this serious crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122163913	I've been trying to find out what punishment these assailants are getting today, and from what I've been looking into, from the figures I've been able to find out, it's about. Two and a half years in prison. This means that if you set it up by 1 year, it is approx. 31⁄2 years in prison. Basically, we are of the opinion that whether a perpetrator gets 21⁄2 years or 31⁄2 years, that is not what keeps the perpetrator from doing so. So we will work far more hard to find out how to prevent these abuses from happening at all. We would much rather use the funding to prevent this happening, and we would very much like to work with much better help for the victims, and this applies to all victims of violence. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you what the appropriate punishment is. That's why we have the courts. I fully acknowledge that it would be wonderful to be able to say that we could sort of put them behind bars and throw away the key, but that is not how we feel in the Danish legal community. That's not how it's supposed to be. We need to prevent that from happening at all, and that is the discussion we need to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164021	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164023	I therefore agree with Mrs Josephine Fock that the way in which we receive the victims is of enormous importance and that this is one of the areas in which we need to work very much. I also agree with Mrs Josephine Fock that it would be appropriate to have an in-depth investigation of the perpetrators carried out so that we can better prevent these abuses from taking place. But then I would like to hear Mrs Josephine Fock: what do you think about the length of sentence in relation to that that punishment can have a preventive effect so that you do not commit a crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164105	Well, the big discussion, you might say, in court sociology and justice policy, is when we are punishing ourselves for having a preventive effect. My claim here from the platform is that 1 year of extension at the level we are talking about here will not have a preventive effect. But I am also saying that I look forward to the committee reading because it is a difficult matter and I am not an expert in this area. Therefore, I would really like to have the opportunity to dive down here and get some recommendations on how we can then look at preventive effects and whether they are linked to penalty length or not. At first sight, we are of the opinion that expertise says that it will not have a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164152	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Emrah Tuncer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164205	Radical Left is in no doubt. The punishment for rape must reflect more closely the violation associated with the abuse. The purpose of this bill is precisely to increase the level of punishment for rape and to establish intercourse with a child under the age of 15 by exploiting his physical or mental superiority. We support the sharpening of the penalty, not because we believe that the punishment will have a preventive effect, I do not believe that it will lead to more reports; nor do I believe that it will result in fewer rape attempts or rapes but because of the violation of the sexual assault. Other rapporteurs have mentioned this. It has to go on two legs because the tightening of penalties should not be left alone. That is why we from the Radical Left are very pleased with the investigation launched by the Minister of Justice, which aims to identify whether the police have the tools necessary to deal with the cases and whether there is a need for further guidelines, for training police officers, etc., and, in fact, also to look at how we can best help the victims in the course of a rape • initiatives to help ensure that as many sexual abuse as possible is reported to the police and that cases are handled in a safe manner by the authorities. However, despite the fact that we support a tightening of the level of penalties for rape, we agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that it is inappropriate for the punishment of false accusations of rape and sexual crimes against children to be tightened up in the same legislative proposal. This isn't about us thinking the government is out of the question about this. We think it is right, very good, that we take it seriously and that we are actually also tightening the penalty, and for my sake we could actually further tighten the penalty for rape. But by having it in the same bill, I think there is a little indication that, especially in cases of sexual abuse, there is a greater risk of false accusations. It is not to distract attention from the importance of the legislative proposal, namely to sharpen the penalty, but I would like to say from the Radical Left that we support 100% of the punishment for rape. We also support one hundred per cent of the fact that we need to tighten up the penalty for false accusations, but I do not think we should do so in the same bill because, as the Centre for Sexual Offense refers to in one of the hearings, the fear of not being believed in prevents more women from reporting rape. That is why I think it would be really, really good if we could divide up the bill so that we actually tighten up the penalties for both, but separately. So we actually support both, but separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164458	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the SF rapporteur. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122164516	First of all, I would just like to say that I am very pleased that we are discussing rape, the rights of victims and all that is related to this subject so much. I am also very pleased that there are many media that focus on this area. I am pleased that the Minister has a focus on the area and that the whole parliament has it. I have heard from the many e-mails and stories that I have received from mainly women that it can be one of the most devastating things for a human being and that it is something that can set foot in the rest of their lives with great traumas. I do not believe, and the SF also has the basic view, that punishment has a particularly preventive effect. That is our basic view. But that does not mean that we should not punish, because there is also what is rather popularly called a sense of justice. That is why we have no problem raising the penalty in this area. We spoke a little about it this summer when the Minister was out with these reports first, that as long as it doesn't follow that the huge problem we have right now is that we have a culture where so many people do not dare to report it. In fact, like some of my colleagues, I believe that putting false notification into a single bill on rape is part of it. I do not think that is a bad intention on the part of the Minister. That is something I have tried to ask my fellow Members: when was the last time a debate in this Chamber on punishment was held and at the same time a debate on false notification? I don't remember. I have been asking some of the colleagues who have been working on this for a long time. They don't remember either. I've been asking people outside the house. It's not customary, and if it was, it was something completely different. I think the minister is so concerned about this area and so concerned about the victims, and that is why I think it is a huge mistake to try to feed that myth that there should be so many false reviews out there. The figures speak their own clear language. Of the reports that are being made at all, as we know is a small part of the rapes that are actually taking place, there are about 7%. False reviews. That is to say, it is not 7%. of the alleged rapes. They're the ones who're being reported. We discuss it over and over again, even when I take the debates with people outside the house, people I know well. The first thing that comes up is: Yes, yes, but what about the false reviews? What if it was her own fault? That's what you always get to meet first. This is not something that is discussed as much when it comes to other areas such as nightlife violence or economic crimes, or whatever it is. It's always in this area where it comes up as one of the first. I hope I can also see myself in the proposal that the Minister will make later. The SF presented a package with a number of points here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where there were a large number of points that had to deal with some of the poor culture that you see in certain places. But our biggest problem is the culture that is out there in society. One out of seven Danes thinks it's the woman's own fault if you go home with someone you've met, no matter what happens next, regardless of the violence or the coercion that may be involved. I think that's creepy. Having said that, the SF would also like to support the Minister's proposal for punishment. We support the fragmentation of the legislative proposal, so that we have at least symbolically, but importantly symbolically, separated the two things. I would also like the Minister to make the comments to the law much clearer as to whether it is an attenuating fact that there is a knowledge or it is a close relationship. It seems that it is not just me who misunderstood the remarks in the draft law. The hearing from Amnesty International, from the Center for Sexual Attacks, from the Center for Rape Victims, Joan-Sisters, the Women's Council and several others, says that there is a real doubt as to how to interpret the comments contained in the bill. It says that this is an attack, for example. by the victim being subjected to a sudden attack on a public place where the victim goes alone or in his own home where the perpetrator has entered, in general, temporarily constitutes an aggravating circumstance. This is the starting point for higher penalties in cases of assault rape. The Minister has said in his reply that this is not what is meant, but it should be so clarified, because that is how many of us read it. When Chief Psychologist Svend Aage Madsen says in the criminal law report that it is actually more devastating, more traumatic to be raped by someone you know and trust, I certainly hope it is something that the Minister will look at, because when so many organizations and so many of us in here have read it apparently wrong, it needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122165101	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122165121	Sexual abuse of children and rape are, and remain, one of the worst things imaginable. It sets itself straight, and it scars the lives of those who suffer, and it must be severely punished. Whatever you think of penalties and their effect, it must be severely punished and we vote for this because it is an improvement. We certainly believe that there may be grounds for discussing whether it should be punished more severely, but it is a step in the right direction. Then I would also like to acknowledge that although this is not directly what we are dealing with here, and I think it is very good that the Minister for Justice has taken on board that we can discuss this even more widely, and I look forward, like others, to joining together in a meeting with the Minister over the coming week to ensure that we provide rape victims with the very best conditions for their further progress. Having said that, there is also an area of false accusations. False accusations can be quite devastating for a person to be exposed to, they can destroy a person's life, which is why it is natural for him to be severely punished. I must honestly say that, when I read this and found out what you are punishing false accusations, I thought it was very little, and I think it is also a very small step forward, but it is always something to sharpen the penalty for false notification. So we look forward to working further on the matter, but the short of the long term is that we support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122165309	There will then be no further brief comments, and we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122165328	This is an area which, from the start of the government, has been of crucial importance for the work, among other things. in the Ministry of Justice. Three tracks have been laid out. The first clue was to honour the promises made by the then bourgeois opposition about a clear punishment for rape. I am not immediately aware that there was anything about it in the Ministry of Justice when I took office. It is a work that we have started ourselves, and this has resulted in us now in the Folketing putting forward a proposal for a general one-year penalty for rape and a general one-year penalty for paedophilia. The essence of the whole proposal is that in the old days, where you would have been given 21⁄2 years in prison for a normal rape, you now get 31⁄2 years in prison and so on up the scale. That is why this is not an increase in the criminal framework. There isn't. It's tall enough. No, it is an increase in the normal penalty, which directly addresses the individual crime. So, if you had a certain time in the past, you will have 1 year on top, and it has been a very important signal for the government to send out. The second lead we've been following in this context is a clue to focus on the victim. That is quite correct when there is a big gap here between the number of rapes we can see in the Ministry of Justice's victim investigation and the number of cases we see led to judgment. There are many reasons for this, for example. It is quite right that we should be able to experience it between close together, where it takes up a great deal in the association we might otherwise have, whether we go and report or not a whole series of profoundly complex social and cultural interactions which make this difficult. But there is also the question that we discussed yesterday, namely whether the authorities receive people properly when they come in and how to improve it. All this has been highlighted by the government since its accession in a 360-degree review, where I have to say again that I did not know that there would be any work ahead of the work we have undertaken. That's also why it's only now that we've been involved in almost every conceivable organization to get a clearer picture of how we can do this better for the victim. It is absolutely essential that we get more cases so that things can come to light so that there are no taboos. The last clue will be an investigation of the perpetrator, a profiling of the perpetrator, that is, who is out to commit these crimes? What is, for example, what is going on here? The ethnic background? We know there is an overweight of people of ethnic origin other than Danish, but can we get closer to it? This isn't just a matter of culture. It's about a whole range of factors, a direct profiling of what we see in this area, so we better know how to fight it. In other words, it is a great deal of work aimed at rape, and that is why I am, of course, saddened, sincerely saddened when I find that, for example, The whole of this day has gone through a debate which is about the natural nature of, I think, when you go in so violently and increase the normal and direct penalty for each crime by 365 days, that you then increase the penalty for false notification, which may have enormous consequences for the individual, with • quite right, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen said 10 days. I have decided that I will not let myself be provoked, but I will express my sadness at the charge of sexism by Mrs Pernille Skipper on the basis of all this work, at the same time saying that we must find a broad consensus in the Folketing. I cannot rid myself of the suspicion that this is really due to the fact that now you no longer have that agenda for yourself, and I find that boring. I think it is a deeply boring tonality to hear the word sexism from this platform directed at this government, and I just want to distance myself strongly from it. I think it's rude, rude! It is unheard of, simply, and I have said it. President-in-Office of the Council. I'm bad, I'm not finished at all yet. I've got enough left, I can guarantee that. This work is the heartblood of this government, and we're going to be making powerful changes in the way it's being treated. So I'm just going to say, let's put all this aside. Now let's put aside these stupid confrontations. Let us gather together on what it really is about: fighting the criminals who commit this, picking up the victims who are exposed to this. For me, the matter is the most important. I just have to say that the work that has been done so far is not done by me alone. Well, it would be absurd to say so. There are people who have sat and worked so hard to bring together all the organisations that are at all, and when I try to put it here in a proper way to the Folketing, it is also a matter of many knowing that for this government it has not only been a question of increasing the penalty. The increase in the penalty is the fulfilment of an election promise that we have made. It is also because we believe that it has a deterrent effect, and it is because we believe that it meets a just demand that the first real punishment be carried out in this area since 2002. But it can't be alone. Something needs to be done for the victim, and now we are also getting a profiling of the perpetrator. All in all, it is a global effort, and apart from those provocative statements that are so saddened about, I would say that I really welcome the very broad, positive reception this focus has received. And I look forward to seeing this through together. I think it is a pity that it is being turned into a technical discussion that you can use a lot of effort on. There have been allegations that I am taking advantage of a myth. That has not been my intention. I can only say that it is natural for me, in cases as serious as rape and paedophilia, to increase the sentence by 365 days down the bottom line, to stress, on the other hand, the seriousness of making a false accusation against a person with all the guilt and shame and exhibition that such a false accusation entails for him. I think that is fair. I have not given a thought as to whether this was the case in other areas. I think it is a fair link. And that is why I am immediately very sceptical about dividing up the bill. For me, there's a connection. But what I can say to the Danish Parliament is that I have now asked the Ministry of Justice to identify the alleged or described myth, which among other things. Mrs Pernille Skipper has indicated that I should be abusing in this context. That has by no means been my intention. I just think that there is a deep connection between these things because of the particular nature of crimes such as rape and paedophilia. It is one of the most shameful, one of the most traumatic, particularly as a crime, but also as a charge. That is why we must see what that study shows. I do not think that the figure we know about, 7.3%, is a small figure. I don't think so. 7.3% is a high figure, it is too high a figure, and that is why we also have an obligation to make an effort here. I look forward to next week's meeting with Parliament's parties. I will first hold a meeting with the organisations involved in order to have complete clarity as to how they view the matter. Then I hope that together we can find the groundwork for an overall effort. There's gonna be plenty of time for this, all the time the bill has to go through three treatments. So there is plenty of time next to making an effort on the whole, among other things. In relation to the victim. So, acting chairman, I finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170247	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170251	Thank you. The discussion that the Minister and Mrs. Pernille Skipper have about what to call each other, you must have for yourselves. I just want to say that I think it is inconvenient in a draft law, where you and I quote the Minister will keep the focus on the matter, that you link it precisely with what is the focus of the matter. There are so many people who first mention the false reviews when discussing rape. But that's exactly the thing about shame and blame and I'm now being believed... all the many girls, women and some men say is why they don't report it. That is why I cannot understand why the Minister cannot see why it is so crucial that we separate the two discussions. What is the substance, what is the main problem, is the culture of not having the courage to report it, because now there is someone who believes in me. That is why things are inextricably linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170402	There is a profound difference between rape or false accusations against someone else for committing it against you. I'm not the one who equates these things. There is a profound difference between the two. That is why I have to say that I really do not understand this discussion at all, because all our work is, after all, about ensuring that people receive proper treatment, ensuring that the victim is treated properly on his own terms, while, of course, those people who abuse the trust of the community and make a false accusation of some of the most disgusting things we see in our society must have a fair punishment. I don't understand why this is supposed to be a suspicion of the victims, that is, I disagree with you. On the contrary, I think this discussion can be interpreted very easily as just that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170502	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170504	Apparently, there we look at it very differently. Because if you take false reviews in isolation and take that discussion, no one in here will defend it. Most of us will probably say, no matter how you look at punishment, that it is fine with an increase in punishment, but connecting it to each other touches the core problem. Because it is not only a question of ensuring better treatment for the victims in the system they are meeting; it is also a question of making a change in culture, firstly, a lot of people say when they hear about such cases, is: it was probably just something she made up of. So the major social change in culture is also something I hope the Minister would like us to bring in. That is the core problem by once again focusing on false notifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170554	So, for me, this has been a very specific assessment: is 20 days reasonable for a false report of rape, since we are now bringing up the penalty by 365 days? I don't think so. That's why it's now instead of 30 days. Is that reasonable in itself? I heard, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen discuss it. I think it's more than 20 days. That's all it is. One might wonder whether this discussion has been good in this context. I would like to put a big question mark over that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170626	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170629	Thank you. When the Minister starts by saying that he will not be provoked, I do not want to see the Minister when he gets provoked. Having said that and all the words have been put aside, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice that he has been a little bit concerned about it, but humour me, answer me for my sake anyway if one over in the Ministry of Justice has been able to find the slightest indicator that there should be a bigger problem with false reports for rape than false reviews for other crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170714	I haven't asked because I've been concentrating on the area as such. And I think it is fair and fair, which is my right as co-legislator together with Mrs Pernille Skipper, to think it into a discussion about such a nasty crime as the one we are talking about, which is surrounded by everything that gets this into all of us. It must be fair for anyone who chooses to stamp another person unfairly to be able to feel a consequence and a consequence that is reasonable in relation to the punishment. I think it is a derailment of the debate to ask whether this is also the case in other areas. This is the first punishment I'm carrying out as a minister. Let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170816	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170819	I think we're talking past each other. No one here has said that it is a bad idea to punish for false reviews nor false reports for rape or that it should not be serious or destructive for a person to be exposed to it. What somebody has an appeal against is the clutch. The Crime Prevention Council, the Danish Women's Society, the Center for Sexual Attacks at the Rigshospitalet, the Center for Victims of Rape and Violence, the Joan sisters, the Women's Council, the National Association for Women's Crisis Centres, also in the hearing replies they have sent to the Minister of Justice a long time ago. So I would just like to ask: will the Minister of Justice also, when there are any other punishments in other areas, make a specific penalty for false notification in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170908	I certainly can't rule that out. But I just want to say that the government's approach to this is that it is particularly offensive to be falsely accused of rape or of a sexual crime against children, precisely because those crimes are one of the most disgusting. So for us, there's no resemblance to all other crimes. And that's not so surprising, because we generally don't share Enhedslisten's desire for equality in this field. We think these crimes are more disgusting than many others. Then, of course, it is more offensive, hit harder if you are falsely accused of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170949	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122170953	This is a difficult discussion. I really think it is very interesting to hear that we have two completely different perceptions of what it can signal. However, I would just like to thank the Minister for initiating the work on rape. I think that is very, very good, and I look forward to the meeting on Wednesday, I think it is, with the Minister for Justice, where the Minister for Justice will explain the work further, including in terms of prevention, the reception of the authorities and all that. I think that's really, really nice. So, the reason why I support a division of the bill is that we can hear that, in fact, I can tell on my own body that the fact that you set the penalty for false notification is actually pulling the focus away from the other, that is, what we really want; I agree with the Minister on that. We want to prevent rape; we want to ensure that it does not happen. And the Minister of Justice then has a desire to lift the sentence and let us focus on that discussion. I totally agree with that, but it just happens that it gets mixed up. And there is something about us sending a signal to the perpetrators... that's what the Minister of Justice wants by raising the penalty... but that's also going to send a signal about the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171106	But that's the point. Because there's 7.3%. false reports, and it is disgusting to be falsely accused of rape and paedophilia. Well, I was living under the naïve notion that when you did a whole lot of work in this field, you couldn't at least be accused of sexism, but it's happened anyway today. And forgive me for going on like this, but it's not something I take lightly. The reason I'm addressing this work is because I think too little has been done and that it hits women particularly hard. But yes, there is also a connection to false accusations, and that happens in 7.3 per cent. of the cases we know about. We shall now have a further examination of whether or not there is an over-representation. I don't think it has much to do with this. I just think there's a perfectly natural connection to the fact that when you set the penalty as violently as we do this... the greatest punishment for a long time and the only one since 2002... it could also be when the penalty is 20 days that you could set it up to 30 days without all kinds of accusations about all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171222	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171225	Now I would like to stress that I have not accused the Minister of anything. Actually, it's far away from me to do it. I also think that 7.3%. is a high number. The fact is, it's a number that also applies to the way I've understood it for other crimes. And that is why, in fact, I would much rather have a general discussion about it and possibly make a bill on punishment for false notification, in relation to what it is for some crimes. Because it sends a signal. But let us stop the discussion, because I do not think we will agree. But I think it is important to recognise that we have different views and that this in my optics also sends a signal: be careful that we do not think it is a false notification. But I would certainly recommend addressing the Sociological Institute when the Justice Minister's officials are going to investigate this about false reporting of rapists. Because I know it's something that, among other things. Some people sit there and do research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171319	I don't think I imagined they'd start all over again. I believe that this is how they should put together an information pile for us so that together we can have the same starting point. But for me, that is not what is essential. I think it is fair to link false reports to the individual crime. In my view, a general rule cannot simply be applied because there is a difference between crimes. There is a difference between their violence, disgust and stigmatizing effect. So, for me, there is a logical context, which is why I have to say that I am saddened that some people can see it that way. At any rate, that is not in any way my approach to it. I think rape is a vile crime. I think that false accusations in this context are a serious crime. And that's why you have to look at it in context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171411	Sir. Emrah Tuncer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171413	Thank you. I am actually listening to the fact that we are actually quite in agreement across the parties. I am listening to an agreement that we must tighten up the penalties for rape and that we must also tighten up the penalties for false accusations. The fact that we are linking it together is what we disagree on, and that refers to the Minister as a foolish confrontation. I am a little upset because the draft law as a whole is not really much of a disagreement on that. Now when you look at the hearing answers from the Crime Prevention Council, the Center for Sexual Abuse, the Center for Rape Victims, etc., you can see that they are just stressing that this linking these two things together is unfortunate. So I just want to ask the Minister something precisely in an attempt to reach an agreement on this. Because we agree on both basic elements, but I also agree with the other rapporteurs that a little less focus is being placed on punishing the perpetrators even harder. For my sake, I would like even harder to talk about false accusations. I think, as we have also said before, that we should divide it up. Will the Minister not consider looking at the 7.3% part of the office now, when it is also examining the 7.3% part, at the fact that we are dealing first with aggravated punishment for rapists and then looking at false accusations in general? Will the Minister not consider whether we can divide it up or does he reject it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171541	This government rarely refuses to try to figure things out with the Folketing, but I just want to say that for me there is a connection. What may surprise me a little bit is that many of the rapporteurs are against this, who say that one of the first questions they encounter when they are out in a public assembly and discuss rape is: is there nothing about false accusations? Then one should think in itself, when it is now the first question they encounter, that people saw it as a whole, and that it would calm the soul to say: we have taken care of that, for that is what we are punishing ourselves for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171614	Sir. Emrah Tuncer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171616	I have not said whether this is the first question to be dealt with. But 7.3%. is high, and of course it must also count down. I think we should also look at that in relation to other crimes. I still think it is a pity to link these two things together, because the Radical Left can easily support the fact that we are sharpening the penalties for criminals and also for those who make a false accusation. So I would still recommend that we discuss, across the parties, whether we can look at false accusations in general and then punish these rapists, as is also proposed in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171652	There will be plenty of opportunity during the committee work to discuss it, and then we will have to turn it around. I am simply saying that I am now in the position that if I accept it, then I also accept the argument that it should be sexist to have set it here to the Folketing, and I simply cannot. I simply will not accept that. I simply think that is a profound injustice. But it's certainly not pride that has to influence this government, so we have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171721	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160122171736	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 26 January 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
