ParlaMint-DK_20161028100007	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100012	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100056	The debate is open. First of all, Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100120	The bill here seeks to ensure better Internet coverage for more Danes, and we do this by creating better conditions for those who provide the Internet, because when there are better conditions for Internet providers when their costs are reduced, it is an incentive to provide better internet for more parts of the country. That is why we launched the growth plan for digital Denmark, which contains this proposal. Basically, the proposal is that we amend the law on registration and introduce a new category of property, thus making it much more advantageous for companies providing the Internet to borrow and also operate. Thus, expectations are that the availability of the Internet will be strengthened not only in cities but throughout the country. This is a strong and very important legislative proposal that we are discussing here today, because it is absolutely essential that we have proper digital infrastructure throughout the country if we are to continue to be at the forefront of the field among the digitised countries. It is crucial that the whole country has a proper Internet when we know that it is becoming an increasingly important part of both public and private services to citizens. Thus, a proper Internet is also a prerequisite for continued growth. That is why the proposal we are debating here today is so crucial and we Social Democrats welcome the fact that it will become a reality, and with those words I have to say that we in the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100259	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100314	Securing the digital infrastructure is a crucial step towards making it possible to maintain growth and employment throughout Denmark. There is a need to ensure that all areas of the country have the opportunities, because the fact is that areas where the connection is poor are simply in a tight state. A politician I value very much said a few years ago that Denmark is an too small country to have an outskirts. I fully agree with that, because that should not be the case, of course. Unfortunately, particularly in these years, we are experiencing a distortion between the country and the city. Many people pack their things and travel to the larger cities, while the rest of Denmark loses its inhabitants. But not only that. The composition of the population also changes dramatically. While young people go to the cities, they grow older in the areas outside, creating a huge imbalance in an otherwise small and homogeneous country. And it is clear that such a development must, of course, be reversed. All of the Danish Parliament's parties entered into an agreement in 2015 on a growth plan for digitalisation. As a result, today we are discussing L 16, which is aimed precisely at improving coverage throughout Denmark. That is sensible, because with better digital infrastructure, the possibility of increased settlements throughout the country improved. The proposal here is to change the rules on registration and mortgages for telecommunications, energy and water supply companies. The proposal provides for clear rules on what is covered by a mortgage in telecommunications companies, clear rules on what is covered by mortgage in water and energy supplies, and then proposes the possibility of merging properties which are connected and which are owned by the types of companies referred to. Then comes a new category in the law on mortgage lending and mortgage bonds, where the sites owned and used by the telecommunications industry and used for data traffic achieve the same opportunities for mortgage loans as other types of companies. In the Danish People's Party we support the agreement that we helped to conclude in 2015, and we also support the proposal here. Hopefully, together with many other good initiatives, it can help reverse the tedious development where Denmark bite by bit falls apart and becomes a more crooked country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100527	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100532	Thank you. It is true, as has been said by previous rapporteurs, that this is the implementation of the growth plan agreed by all parties, and I am not going to use Parliament's time to review what it is all about. The two previous rapporteurs have done so very well. We are dealing with a growth plan, and it is a goal of the government that Danes in all regions have access to public mobile and broadband coverage, and this can contribute to this. We must encourage companies to invest more in digital infrastructure. So we do, among other things. through the amendment of § 16 of the law on registration, which means so translated into Danish that where it has previously been possible to register a mortgage in a real estate with what it belongs to, we will then expand it for these types of telecommunications and utilities, so that it will also be possible to register a mortgage in pipes, cables and antennas, etc. that run between several properties. It is a little technical, but it is an important proposal, which is why I can safely say that the proposal will mean that companies can now include in their lending base the value of these installations we have been talking about here in the typical mortgage base of 60%. for commercial real estate. It is an important proposal, and that is why the Left supports it by its very nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100654	Thank you. The next one is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100703	It is incredible that such an important law can be described as boring as it is in the material. This bill is, in fact, important for the investments that may be made, in that there will be better loan financing, especially in the telecommunications sector. It is a legislative proposal which will have the greatest impact on those sectors which have not been able to obtain a municipal guarantee on their investments. So what we are facing is that it is the telecommunications sector and perhaps also the partial energy sector that will benefit from this bill. I think it is a little underwritten when the bill suddenly says about the environmental consequences: the bill has no environmental consequences. Yeah, I actually think so. As well as providing better loan opportunities for some energy companies, there is, in fact, affording more, so there is a good reason for both investing in the fiber area and investing in renewable energy. So this bill will have some environmental consequences. But that's probably part of the style of this bill. I think it is incredibly important that we give priority to and develop the digital motorways, which are far more important than the asphalt highways which other parties consider important. If you look at it very concretely in the countryside, there are very many places where there is a lot of effort to get enough support to get fiber out into a rural area. And it's very nice that you sometimes experience rural areas where there are 70%. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take a decision on this matter. However, there are also projects that do not fully come through because there are high construction costs and there are high financing costs. Then, when we adopt this bill, it will provide a better chance of getting fibre connections out into several rural areas, because the cost of financing will be significantly lower for the energy companies. I believe that this bill will have a very important meaning, and it would be important, in fact, for it to be adopted quickly, so that the energy companies and telecommunications companies that are planning their budgets for next year can see what kind of funding there is and see that they may be able to afford to invest twice as much. I really think it would be interesting for the committee to get some estimates of what it is of an increased investment potential that lies when this bill is adopted. What could be the effect of this on the various sectors? I think that might be interesting, because it's a little underwritten. It is, in fact, an important law, and the rapporteur has said so for both the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left. It is thus an important law, which makes it possible to increase investment in Denmark, making it possible to get fibre connections out to more consumers. It is against this background that the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028100959	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101008	Both mobile phones and the Internet have come to stay, and that is good. This is particularly good when there is a good framework for both to be used without too much difficulty, even in the extremely remote regions of the kingdom, and that part requires investment. With the adoption of this bill, we remove a barrier to investments in digital infrastructure being large and many, and that is precisely one of our most important tasks in the Folketing, namely to be least in the way of development. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101047	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101055	Thank you. The alternative supports the bill. A coherent Denmark is very much about how we see the new settlement, which is already taking place in our golden edge areas, our rural areas, our islands, which think visionally and creatively. It is essential for creative and entrepreneurial development that we also have digital development, and that is why we clearly support lower funding costs for the construction of digital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101128	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101137	Thank you. This is a very important proposal. When you read it, it seems a little bit complicated, and that is why it may not shine out of the proposal in itself how important it really is. However, we have been discussing the issue of peripherality for many years and, in reality, it is a paradox that, with the digital development we have seen, we have not turned development between countries into towns. Because technological development should have the opportunity to work and operate from rural areas in a way that was harder years ago. Unfortunately, however, we have not broken the curve yet, and perhaps this is also due to the fact that technological development has not been achieved everywhere, because there have been some barriers. This very technical bill can help to break down some of the barriers, help to make it less risky to invest in the fact that this technological development actually benefits rural areas and that we can meet the huge potential of technology development for rural areas. So the Radical Left is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101248	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101300	After all, my colleagues have examined the bill very well. This is a very important legislative proposal, and I also think that those who have said that there are a number of barriers today that this bill can help to remove are absolutely right. However, there are some who, although it has been really difficult, have fought the fight to get lightning-fast Internet for everyone. Today it has become official that Læsø Municipality as the world's perhaps only municipality will be able to offer lightning-fast internet to all of the island's citizens. It has not been easy, it has been a struggle between the state and the municipality, there have been financing problems and all sorts of things, but it has succeeded anyway. So it can be done. But there's no reason why it should be so difficult and uphill, and this bill will also help that other municipalities in the country than Læsø can get lightning-fast broadband. This means, in relation to companies, to citizens, that you can work from home if you live a little further away from the larger cities. So it's really, really important. It is also part of an agreement that SF is part of, so that is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101424	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101439	It is an important legislative proposal; it ensures even better the digital infrastructure. That's common sense. We can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101442	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101448	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the unequivocal positive reception of the draft law. As you know, in 2015 all of the Danish Parliament's parties concluded an agreement on a growth plan for digitalisation in Denmark. The legislative proposal before us must contribute to achieving one of the objectives of the plan, namely to ensure good mobile and broadband coverage across the country. It is very important to me and the government that we provide business with a favourable framework to work within. I believe the bill contributes to that. This ensures that the digital infrastructure can be mortgaged and makes it more attractive for companies to establish new digital infrastructure also in the so-called outermost regions. Thus, the bill contributes to increasing digitalisation and thus growth in Denmark for the benefit of all of us. At the same time, improved mobile and broadband coverage will benefit citizens when they consider whether they want to live in rural areas. Firstly, the bill must ensure that digital infrastructure can be the subject of mortgage lending. More favourable loan conditions for telecommunications companies will help to achieve good mobile and broadband coverage everywhere. Secondly, the draft law must support the continued expansion and maintenance of energy and water supply networks. The provision of real estate collateral is a prerequisite for granting mortgage loans. The value of the collateral provided will have an impact on the amount of a loan you can borrow. The rules of the Act on Public Procurement determine what a mortgage, a security in real estate, includes. Therefore, the rules of the Tangling Act are relevant to what can be included in the valuation of a real estate in connection with the admission of mortgages, including whether operating equipment can be included in the valuation. The rules in force in the Land Register Act do not provide the necessary assurance that so-called intermediate operating equipment is covered by a mortgage on immovable property. Intermediate equipment may be pipes, cables, antennas or the like which run between several real estate owned by the same telecommunications, energy or water supply business. This intermediate operating equipment represents a significant economic value for the companies and therefore it is essential that the intermediate operating equipment can be included in the valuation for the admission of mortgage loans. The bill provides for the possibility of a mortgage on several connected real estate owned by a telecommunications, energy or water supply undertaking to include intermediate equipment. In addition, it is proposed to include in the mortgage credit law a new category of property which will include commercial properties owned by telecommunications companies. Thus, in line with other commercial properties, these commercial properties will have a loan limit of 60%. for loans financed by mortgage bonds. With these comments, I should once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101737	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101802	The debate is open. And that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028101809	The draft law we are discussing here is intended to strengthen police action against the trade in hashish, etc. in the so-called hash clubs. The draft law introduces a rule which allows a prior warning not to be given before the prohibition of residence at special locations. This may be the case if, within the last three months, the stay has been prohibited under the law within a radius of 500 m. The purpose of the bill is also to regulate the use of pepper spray by the police in the same way as other means of power available to the police, for example. Guns, sticks and dogs. I have to say that we in the Socialist Group support these proposals. It is necessary to strengthen police tools in the fight against drug trafficking, just as we must ensure at all times that our police can use their instruments of force most optimally, so as to cause the least possible damage to citizens and policemen. At the same time, however, it is important to point out that we must not forget the prevention efforts, both in terms of hashish trading and the fact that young people in particular are recruited for the environment, not least in the vulnerable residential areas, and therefore it is essential to ensure that young people are not potential recruits for the criminal environment. As far as the use of force by the police is concerned, it is essential to mention that there is, or should always be, a focus on prevention. The aim is no longer the use of force, nor is it the use of this bill; it is less the use of force. However, this does not change the fact that our police must have the best conditions for using pepper spray when the seriousness arises. After all, pepper spray must be preferable to firearms if it can replace them. In these words, we in the Socialist Group support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102016	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102024	After all, it is a bill which deals with both the law on hashclubs and the use of pepper sprays. Perhaps it should have been two legislative proposals, because there is a lot to discuss in relation to both. In relation to the part of the proposal which deals with the hash club law, I can see that the proposal is largely identical to a proposal made by the Danish People's Party in its 2011-12 meeting, which was called B 19. In this context, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mrs Trine Bramsen, believes that this draft law needs to give further consideration to the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. I am thinking in particular of the restrictions on freedom of assembly imposed by this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102115	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102116	Thank you for the question, I would like to say to Mr. Rune Lund. It is also basically identical to a proposal that we made ourselves in 2015 when we sat in government, as part of the package called the Youth Crime Package, and that is precisely where we had the aspects that Mr. Rune Lund is referring to. And that was the reason why we presented it ourselves, because it is of course crucial that things are in order, that the basis is in order when such proposals are put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102141	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102143	The reason why I am asking is that the rules we have today in the hash club law mean that it is forbidden to receive visitors or stay as visitors in or in the immediate vicinity of the premises in question if they are banned, and that is the case, regardless of whether this is true, for example. can be proved that a person taken in a hash club has specifically wanted to buy or receive hashish on that occasion. This is a serious interference in the freedom of assembly. It was also part of the debate when the original hash club law was debated. When you then make a further tightening, as originally proposed by the Danish People's Party, I can see that the Minister for Justice, who was then Mr. Morten Bødskov, believes that there were some fundamental problems in relation to the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. Doesn't that impress Mrs. Trine Bramsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102231	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102232	If we had thought that there were problems with it, we would probably not have tabled the proposal ourselves in 2015. But it is quite right that when we make proposals and we have not yet examined the basis, it should at all times examine the basis. However, it would have been strange to put forward the proposal yourself in 2015 if we could not stand up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102255	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102306	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now concerns two issues. On the one hand, further powers to the police in order to combat hash trade through hash clubs, and on the other hand, a change to the police law in which the use of pepper spray by the police is directly registered. The part about strengthening the police's ability to intervene against hash clubs is that we in the Danish People's Party see as an absolutely excellent initiative the initiative we have proposed in the past. We are very concerned that the police are given the best tools to combat the gangs and bikers or, for that matter, others who may feed themselves through the sale of hashish and other types of drugs through the so-called hash clubs. Here we have to recognise that we must be able to give these criminal groups even more of a fight in the future. The proposal here suggests that the possibility which already exists of prohibiting residence in certain premises, where the police are aware of this trade, should be extended. This means, in fact, that the police can quickly prohibit residence in premises in a radius of 500 metres from the first place where a ban on residence has been imposed. I can imagine how difficult it must be with such a rule for the gangs who feed on this sale, and that is why it is a very good proposal which, of course, we fully support. We ourselves have proposed something similar, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned earlier in her question, so it's equal water on our mill. There is, however, one thing I wonder a little bit about, which I hope the Minister of Justice will be able to elaborate on when he is going to be on the platform later, and this is about the radius that has been made at the 500 metres. I would like to know why the government has fixed itself at exactly 500 metres. Why not 1,000 m, why not 1,200 m? I just lack a reason why it is precisely this figure that needs to be taken into account, and I hope, of course, that the Minister will be able to give us more information on this later. I also need to raise a flag of concern, because we know that the fight against drugs is a battle that is currently difficult to fight for the police, because it is precisely now that there is a totally unreasonable situation and a very large number of police officers are lacking in order to put the necessary pressure on the whole country. This is a serious situation which we in the Danish People's Party are very keen to resolve as soon as possible, so that we have a police force that is even stronger than today and can beat down on the criminals who live through drug trafficking. On the bottom line it says that we naturally support this element. Then there is the proposal to regulate the use of pepper spray by the police. The Danish People's Party is and has always been a strong supporter of the possibility for the police to use pepper spray. It is our very clear impression that the pepper spray can help prevent dangerous situations for the individual police officer and probably also for the person who suffers, otherwise other means of power would have to be used. I can only take a very positive view of that. I could say a lot about pepper spray, but I will refrain from doing so and stick to the proposal. However, we are happy to support the inclusion of this in the police law. The most important thing for us is that the police have the same possibilities for using pepper spray as they do today, and nothing should have changed, and I think that is really, really fine. The Danish People's Party supports both initiatives. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102627	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102632	The Danish People's Party's position on pepper spray is well known, but it could be that here today we could have an admission that the use of pepper spray has not, in such a way, led to less use of force by the police, but that it has led to more use of force by having a new tool which has been used to supplement the further ways of using force, for example. stick or dog. Can we get that confirmation from the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102705	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102706	Well, that's exactly why, that is, with the argument that Mr. Rune Lund travels, so Enhedslisten should be extra happy that you have had pepper spray in the police. Because that gives us an opportunity to use a much milder instrument of power than we would otherwise have to. The fact is that if you did not have pepper spray as a tool in the police's work, you would find yourself in a situation where you might just have to use the staff or the dog, that is to say, using some means that could have some more pervasive damage to it, which would then suffer. You just have to say that pepper spray is a harmless tool. It causes a short-term weakening and irritation of the person it is suffering, but both for the police officer, but also for the person it is suffering, it must be the best thing in terms of otherwise using other methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102752	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102754	I do not agree that pepper spray is harmless, and I agree with the Danish Health Authority and Østre Landsret on this, such as. has described the use of pepper spray by individuals as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature. And we also know that pepper spray can cause serious lesions on the cornea. However, the question I asked in the first place was whether the rapporteur could not confirm that the introduction of pepper spray to the police has led to more use of force. This is at least what the Institute for Human Rights has noted in a major report published in 2015, i.e. that pepper spray has been used as an additional means of power and it appears that it has not replaced other reporting agents.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102841	I am now very satisfied, and I am very confident that the Danish police officers will be able to handle this good tool that pepper spray is. Then there is the whole discussion about private individuals, and about Mr. Rune Lund and I should have been allowed to buy a pepper spray or not, and we can take that at another time. But there is also my position quite clear: I think we should have the opportunity to do so. Because it is an effective tool for defending itself, but it is also, it has to be said, very harmless in relation to the alternatives that will be in the context of self-defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102911	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102916	Now Mr. Peter Kofod-Poulsen-Poulsen Minister, why it was a radius of 500 m and why it was not 1 km, and you could also ask why it is not 5 km, and then you can move it to another city. But when you are happy with the bill in DF, I am interested in hearing what DF's position is. What should a radius be extended to if it is not to be 500 m?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028102940	We are going to be content with the 500 m. I would like to emphasise this point. We think that what has been put forward is very sensible. When I ask about the 500 metres, it is because I, I think, have the same interest as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has, for why exactly one chooses to stick to it by the government. It might well be that there were some exciting middle bills that could be further elaborated in relation to what is stated in the comments. So it is only general interest that draws us here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103007	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103016	Thank you. In the case of systematic offences from a residential property, the police may give a warning to the person in possession of the premises, provided that this also leads to insecurity and disadvantage for the residents. If the warning is not complied with, it is replaced by a genuine ban, that is to say a ban on visitors and a ban on staying in the premises, and that ban applies for three months. It parted, among other things. with the announcement that you risk up to 4 months in prison if you violate the ban, but there is a possibility of judicial review. That is the situation today. With the Minister for Justice's proposal, the situation will now be that the warning is not necessary if the same person has premises in 500 metres radius and that rule applies within 3 months. This reduces administrative work with the law and hopefully prevents the possibility of reopening the premises on the other side of the road with the company which, moreover, has been tried on the first premises. According to the proposal here, the ban must be published in local media, and not necessarily in the press as it has been up to now. That is one part of the proposal and the Left can, by its very nature, endorse it. The second part of the proposal concerns pepper spray, and I note that it is not a question of extending the rules on pepper spray, but that it is the same rules that are transferred in this way into the police law, and it is also part of the proposal that the Left cannot or will not oppose, on the contrary. We think the proposal as a whole is an excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103212	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We have a few brief comments to make, and that is first Mr President. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103214	It's about the use of pepper spray. Does the rapporteur agree with me that there is today a round of use of pepper sprays that are not tight enough with the police? And does the rapporteur therefore agree with me that what the Institute for Human Rights says is right, namely that there must be a tightening up? And does the rapporteur agree that it is a problem that the police today see pepper spray as a gentle means of power when, for example, we see it as a problem? Østre Landsret has said that it is an extensive means of power to use?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103307	Thank you. I must honestly say that I do not have that statement from the Institute for Human Rights, so I find it difficult to comment on it. However, if the question arises as to whether I believe that the use of pepper spray has, as it were, extended the use of force by the police, the answer is: No, I am not aware of that. I know that the use of force is regulated in such a way that it must be necessary, sound and gentle. I think these are the rules set out in, among others. the law of the police, and probably also in the law of the use of force. But I have no reason to believe that the use of pepper spray has been increased. On the contrary, I would like to say, like my colleague from the Danish People's Party, that I believe that in many situations pepper spray has freed it, we cannot now use the term arrested, but at least the citizen from worse means of power and, incidentally, has also freed the police from having to go on with the stick and what else needs to be done. It's not funny for a cop either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103409	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103411	But then the problem is that we can see that in the statistics. You can also see that, if you google the use of power in 2014• that after pepper spray has been introduced, the use of force in the other areas has not so far decreased, but the pepper spray has become a supplement. The police have been given a new way of using force, and as such they have increased the use of force. That is the one problem raised by the Institute for Human Rights. The second problem is that not enough thought is given to the use of pepper sprays, such as. Østre Landsret in connection with a case involving a private person calls an attack of a particularly dangerous nature. Isn't that something that worries someone who comes from a party that calls itself the Danish Liberal Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103454	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103456	It was said in the question that now it is the case that the use of force has been increased because of pepper spray. I do not doubt that the questioner correctly refers to the study, but there is no doubt that there is basically any idea whether the increase in the use of pepper spray, that is to say, that more pepper spray has been used, is due to the fact that there have been several situations that have made conditional use of pepper spray, so that we have avoided more serious means of force use. That will be my comment on it. I have no reason to doubt that the use of force that is taking place is not necessary and is being done in a sound and gentle manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103534	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103537	Thank you. It may be that I have misread the bill, but I would like to ask something about the fact that the police will no longer have to give a warning about a visitor ban if a warning has been given within three months, for example. has moved to new premises. It may well be that there are many of us who think that some so-called hash clubs are not very sympathetic, or what I know is that one can take a longer discussion about that in relation to hashish in general. However, does the rapporteur not agree with the legal background of the rapporteur that the legislation must be predictable and transparent, etc., and that a visit ban can be imposed without prior warning? Does the rapporteur think that this is reasonable, regardless of what the concern is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103633	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103636	Thank you. Yes, that would be the case if there had been no prior investigation. We have therefore had a 500 m procedure in this case which has involved both a warning and a ban in the original premises against the same person. That is why I have to say that I see no reason to go through the warning procedure again. In fact, I think that the situation has been thoroughly examined enough in relation to the old premises, if I may say so. So I don't think that's awkward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103708	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. It's a good thing you have long legs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028103728	Thank you. In the 2011-12 session, the Danish People's Party tabled a motion for a resolution, which is identical in substance to the draft law at the time called it B 19, but the principle of this bill is basically the same, as I said. When B 19 was discussed in this Chamber, the Minister of Justice was another, the Minister of Justice was then Mr. Morten Bødskov, and when dealing with the proposal, the government would not vote in favour of it at the time, among other things. because, as the Minister said, the possible introduction of a scheme such as that proposed must, in the view of the Minister for Justice, require further consideration in relation to the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. I find that interesting. I agree, too. But it is also remarkable that this draft law then contains nothing about the fundamental considerations relating to the freedom of assembly, the constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. That is extremely unsatisfactory. Neither the word 'constitution' nor the word 'freedom of assembly' nor the word 'human rights' appear in the draft law or in the comments on the proposal. Today it is the case that a ban can be imposed, but that a warning is built in, and that means, as is also described in the comments, that... However, in practice, the person who has the premises in question and who has received a warning must be given a real opportunity to take measures to change the use of the premises in question so that a ban can be avoided. It is then there, among other things. the protection of freedom of assembly. Because, according to the rules governing the hash law today, it is prohibited to receive visitors or to stay as visitors in or in the immediate vicinity of the premises concerned, whether or not this applies, for example. can be proved that a person taken in a hash club, at a hash club, has specifically wanted to buy or receive hash on that occasion. This is, of course, a clear restriction on the freedom of assembly, and it should be something that a government party, which calls itself the Danish Liberal Party, was somewhat more thorough in considering when such a bill as this is put forward. And it is becoming particularly relevant when we find that what we want to achieve with this draft law, which restricts and restricts the freedom of assembly, has so far proved to be of no use at all because we are pursuing a strategy of prohibition and criminalisation. Instead, one should go another way: the way we from Enhedslisten want to go. We want to legalise, regulate and control hash as a drug both in connection with production and sales under controlled conditions, and that would include, among other things, weed. could remove much of the funding from bikers and organized criminals. So far, it has been shown that the ban strategy has not led to a reduction in the consumption of hashish, but there is at least evidence that organised criminals are earning good money. This situation is unsustainable. In relation to the second half of the draft law, which also contains many considerations of principle, and which could perhaps be said to have been dealt with in an independent legislative proposal, so that we had had proper time for the debate, I can see that the announcement that exists today is being moved into legislation. And that is immediately positive, it can be said that it is regulated by law; that is what the Institute for Human Rights notes. But it is a problem that a practice we have today, following an announcement, has meant that the police do not realise to a sufficient extent what the means of power they are using and that the new means of power that they have received in the form of pepper spray actually means that the use of force has increased. asks the Institute for Human Rights. The report, made by the Institute for Human Rights in 2015, shows, among other things, that police officers see pepper spray as one of the most gentle means of power available to the police, and writes in the report that it is, however, an assessment that the people who have been exposed to pepper spray do not share; they experience that pepper spray is violent and has a long-lasting effect. Østre Landret believes that the use of pepper spray can be described as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature, and we can see that pepper spray is also dangerous and can cause serious lesions on the cornea. So we still have a problem. In this context, I think that the Minister for Justice should answer whether the Minister for Justice sees that there is a problem with the way pepper spray is being used today, both because it is not perceived by the police as a serious means of power, but also because we have seen that the use of force has generally increased after the police have been able to use pepper spray as a means of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104305	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104310	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have actually been wondering how to use these two brief remarks, because I thought there were so many things that were intruding. I note that I do not agree with the rapporteur at all. However, I would like to ask a few questions to the last point that has been made about pepper spray and the use of force. If Enhedslisten had 90 seats, would you take the pepper spray from the police officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104333	Yeah, we would. When the pepper spray was introduced, we argued, as an argument, that it was a very serious means of power; that it was a means of power which we considered would create further use of force; that it was a means of power which could risk not being perceived as the serious means of power it is. And it has to be said that we were right in our assumptions when we look at the statistics. After all, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party can go into the use of Google and google power in 2014, and then he will see that the use of staff, the use of dog, the use of other reporting means of power has not decreased, but that pepper spray has simply come on top of as an additional means of power. And that means that the use of force has increased. We have also seen that, unfortunately, the police are very much using pepper spray against mentally ill people. is due to a lack of resources from the police, the bourgeois police, but it is also due to a lack of training. And there is, of course, the problem of resorting to such a very powerful force as pepper spray.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104445	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104447	I just don't understand because I assume that Enhedslisten at least shares the view that we should spare our police officers, but that we should also take care of those arrested by the police that you can have the conclusion on that issue. The abolition of the possibility of using pepper spray would probably mean that the use of other means of power would increase, that is, things that would be far, much harder both for the police officer to use, but also for the person who had to suffer. Aren't you very, very worried about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104521	Maybe you could assume that. We didn't assume that when the police were allowed to use pepper spray. And if you look at the concrete evidence, you can see that it is also not we can generally see that the use of force has increased, and I think that is a major problem. We can also see that in their 2015 report, the Department of Human Rights notes that the police use it too much, among other things. by using pepper sprays on people who have, in effect, already been controlled. And it is too much power to use in a situation where it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104559	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions or comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104615	Thank you. I therefore agree with the rapporteur who said that this draft law should have been divided into two. We in the Liberal Alliance consider the part which regulates the use of pepper spray by the police to be relatively uncontroversial, because it is, after all, a technical introduction of a regulation into the legislation. That is why I would like to concentrate my rapporteur's speech on the second part of the legislative proposal, namely the one on hashish clubs. The essence here is to pursue and extend a strategy against hash trade, which we in the Liberal Alliance fundamentally disagree with. It is a strategy which is a logical consequence of the ban policy against cannabis, namely that the police need to use many resources and more and more tools to enforce the ban. In particular, it is proposed to authorize the closure of a hash club without prior notice, if, therefore, recently, within three months, and in a radius of 500 metres, a hash club has already been closed. This need is both logical and, unfortunately, quite symptomatic of the efforts to enforce the prohibition policy. When one hash club closes in one place, it will show up again, and it happens quickly and right near the club you thought you had just closed. Kind of reminds me of Tom and Jerry. When Tom finally gets his claws in Jerry, it always happens that Jerry quickly pops up somewhere else and continues his atrocities there until poor Tom has to mobilise his powers again and start a new grueling hunt for Jerry. And so it continues over and over again. This is also true of efforts to eliminate the illegal trade in hashish. The police are shutting down the deal in one place and then seeing it reappears somewhere else. It's not the police's fault, it's a failed policy. Unfortunately, the opponents of the police are not a smart, fun mouse like Jerry, but some of society's most hard-boiled criminals who earn a fortune sitting on the lucrative black hash market, and in whose arms the ban policy leaves young people who are curious to try hashish. The ban policy has only one winner: the criminal gangs who feed on it. Thus, when the Canadian Government proposes the legalisation of marijuana, it is Hell's Angels who are troops in front of the Parliament building in Ottawa and demonstrating against the legalisation that will take the bread out of the mouth of the biker gang. In the Liberal Alliance, we want to replace bans with legalisation when it comes to cannabis, and therefore we cannot support this bill, which is a strengthening of an effort that we basically think should be entirely different.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104917	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028104929	Thank you for the floor. After all, I stand in for our legal rapporteur Carolina Magdalene Maier. The bill is in two parts. With regard to the first part, mainly in relation to pepper spray, we would say that we are positive in line with the Institute for Human Rights, but we also note as the Institute for Human Rights that the comments on the bill are clarified so that pepper spray as a starting point may not be used in enclosed spaces if other milder means of power can be used. In addition, the Foundation considers that it should be clarified that, as a starting point, the police should exercise particular restraint in the use of pepper spray to the mentally ill. We strongly urge the government to take note of this. In relation to the second part, we are more critical. I think it was interesting reflections that the LA rapporteur had in relation to prohibition policy, but of course we recognise the intentions behind the proposal and understand that these clubs can cause discomfort, especially for neighbours. We are, however, very concerned about the human rights issues that the draft law brings with it. In their response to the original draft law, the Institute for Human Rights points out that it should explain why the legislation in force is not sufficient. Similarly, it should be stated whether the proposal is compatible with the principles underlying the so-called presumption of innocence in the European Convention on Human Rights. As a whole, we cannot, unfortunately, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105110	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105118	Thank you. I will also examine the two parts of the proposal. The first and perhaps the most controversial part is the one about hash clubs, and before I tell you what our position is on this, I would like to make it clear that, in this way, we also share the criticism that has been raised from up here about the current handling of the whole hash problem. That is why we ourselves have proposed introducing an experiment with state-controlled cannabis sales. However, since reality is what it is, namely that hashish is criminalised and that the whole hashish environment is part of the wider criminal environment, we are in fact positive about the current proposal. After all, the Folketing already introduced in 2001 the possibility of closing hash clubs after prior warning. The warning was given at that time, and still gone, so that the tenants could change the use of the room so that the ban could be prevented. That was, and is, a sensible balance, which was why we voted in favour of the hash club law at the time, even though there were critical comments on some of the comments that have also been made here today. Unfortunately, we have seen, as others have said from up here, how hash clubs often react to a ban by simply moving on to new premises in the immediate vicinity so that the same clientele can be maintained. This means not only that it is difficult to get hash at the individual hash club, but also that there are areas that are plagued over a long period of time, because the hash clubs are constantly moving on in the same area, but thus stay in the same area because this is where the clientele expects to find the club. This is a great nuisance for local residents, and we therefore have a great deal of sympathy for this proposal, which is precisely an attempt to reach them. The draft law aims at this situation by allowing the police, without prior warning, to ban a hash club if another hash club is banned in the next three months. It may be wrong to say another hash club, because it is the same hash club. Because, as far as I can understand, the comments state that it is the same group of people. So it is not the case that one can conduct a thorough investigation and close one hash club and then use it as a shortcut to close a number of other hash clubs without prior warning. As we understand the proposal, we must of course make sure, but I have asked around the corners so that the hash club that you then have access to close without prior warning must have the same circle as the hash club that you closed with warning and according to the old rules. We believe this to be an excellent balance and provide the legal certainty which, of course, we also think is necessary. We also note in this regard that the Institute for Human Rights has no comment on the proposal, other than that they refer to the more general reports that they had in connection with the 2001 Hash Club Act. But then we also voted in favour of the draft law, so we have taken a position on them in the past. So we can support this part of the proposal, although there are, of course, things to consider and a balance to be maintained. But we think it makes sense, and it is an attempt to accommodate local residents who have struggled with these hash clubs and for which they of course cause great inconvenience. The second part of the proposal concerns the regulation of the use of pepper spray by the police. That is the most frequent means of power used by the police, and that is why we think it is very sensible that the regulation of it should find its way directly into the law of the police rather than being merely administratively regulated. So we can support that too. So I can say from the Radical Left that we can support the proposal with its two elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105523	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105526	I was sorry to hear that. However, I would like to congratulate the Radical Left on having joined the legalization car in relation to the whole of the hashish problem, and I would therefore like to ask whether it is a bit strange in this light that the Radical Left will now support what should be said? That's what the first half of this bill is about, so you're going to continue using a medicine that hasn't worked in the past, and then you turn up the dose. If, then, there may be some fundamental issues in relation to the freedom of assembly, does this not give any further cause for concern when it is precisely a matter of tightening up? And what does the rapporteur think about the report presented by the Institute for Human Rights, which states that it has resulted in an increased and also very violent use of force in the way it is being done today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105634	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105635	I hope I can answer everything and I remember everything. Otherwise, sir. Rune Lund just repeat it in the next round. As far as criminalisation is concerned, it is absolutely right that we also think that this has been a failed strategy. And why do we continue with it? Well, in fact, I don't see this as a bill about going after the hash clubs. First of all, it is a bill that is about helping the residents. For as long as hashish is associated with crime and is part of the fact that these hard-boiled criminal environments, which commit a lot of crime other than hash trade, it is not fortunate that there is a hash club in the basement, even if it moves two house numbers further along the way. So that's why we don't really see this as the great chrome-plated attempt to get rid of the hash trade. We do not believe that, and that is why we are in favour of legalising hashish or trying to do so. But we believe that this is a bill that can help the residents who are plagued by hash crime, etc. in their neighborhood because of these hash clubs, which you find incredibly difficult to overcome, because they just move house numbers when they are banned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105746	We'll just have to wait till the next round, I think. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105750	This highlights a little the problem of having two such heavy topics together in one bill. It is not the rapporteur's fault. If we stick to the law of hash club. If this is a legislative proposal which involves tightening up and which means that the police can immediately impose a ban which would seriously restrict the freedom of assembly, by prohibiting the reception of visitors or by staying with visitors in or in the immediate vicinity of the site, whether you can prove that people are there to buy hashish or receive hashish, is that not something of concern to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105827	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105828	No, it's actually not, and it has something to do with what I said before about people. As far as the concept of hash club is concerned, Mr. Rune Lund's interpretation of the word club associated with the site, where I think you might as well connect the club with the circle. In reality, it is all about using the circle of people more than the locality as a defining focal point when talking about hash clubs. They say it may be your club is moving further down the road, but it's still gone the same club, it's the same people who drive it, it's the same people who come and buy and smoke their hashish, and therefore the ban of course also applies, even if the site has changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105913	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028105925	Frankly, I think it's a rather difficult bill. There are some very fundamental considerations which must be weighed against one another. In relation to the hash clubs, as some of the other rapporteurs have done, I would first like to say that decades of fighting hashish have failed; the solution has not been found. After all, it is a discussion that has been globally seen where one agrees that one should go further. We are four parties in the Folketing who have it as official policy, and it is a major discussion in both the Left and the Social Democratic Party, I know, and the Mayor of Copenhagen is of the opinion that one should look at an experimental scheme. After all, this is not about the Wild West, because it will be in some orderly conditions where we have some regulation and where we can also ensure those who are at risk. The fact that we are criminalising hash users to the extent that we are doing today has given us nothing at all, because we have not had a less hashish use and we are not doing anything for those who are at risk and who have been abused. So one part of the proposal here is actually just going further down the path that is missed. There are also some major problems in relation to the Constitution which I do not think are addressed. On the other hand, no one with their young children wants to live next to such a place. I've tried it myself, and it causes a lot of anxiety, and especially if you have little children, you don't want to. Then you shut it down, but then it pops up somewhere else. That is the problem, because we see that it does not disappear even if it is closed down. But I understand if the police think it's kind of a joke that you get it shut down somewhere, but then it moves into the neighboring apartment or a few tricks down the road. As far as pepper spray is concerned, the Institute for Human Rights believes that it is a good thing that the practice already adopted should also be enshrined in legislation, and I think that basically is also a good principle. The problem is that, if you vote for it, you help to stamp something that you can be against or at least see major problems in. If pepper spray replaced other hard means of power... dogs, staff, firearms... that would be preferable. I do not think anyone in this Chamber thinks that the police should have any means of power. It may be necessary. The problem is that when we look at the figures, we see that it is widely used against mentally ill people, that it is widely used in closed rooms and in hospitals. If we do not see a fall in the use of the other hard drugs, how do we justify increased use of pepper spray? It was sir. Rune Lund also mentioned. That is the most basic argument we often hear, i.e. whether it is not better to use pepper spray than using firearms or dogs. Yeah, if it replaced it, but we just can't see it does. That is why it is also very difficult, I think, to support something that we do not have proof of solving some other things. This would be done by voting for it to be included in the police law, which I otherwise support, that is to say that the practice we have is also regulated as far as possible. The Institute for Human Rights has some comments in relation to the clarification of the use of pepper spray in enclosed spaces and to the mentally ill, which I hope the Minister will at least write in. I am not ready to say today whether or not the SF supports the bill; I have a lot of doubts, and I have tried to explain that. In fact, I do not think it is an easy legislative proposal to deal with because there are some very serious considerations that need to be weighed against each other. But of course we will return with our position from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110401	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110406	Thank you. You might ask yourself who it should be easy for here in society. Should it be easy for the criminals or for the police? As a conservative, I think it should be easy for the police, and this about opening clubs in one, other or third house right after another, we think that we are unacceptable, and that is why we want to strengthen the possibility for the police, but also do this because it is good for the citizens. It is good for the citizens who have to look at this and be insecure about the hash trade because they live in those areas. As far as pepper spray is concerned, I think it is quite natural that, given that this is the most common means used by our competent police, it is just common sense that it is regulated directly in the police law. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110502	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110504	When the use of pepper spray in the police was initially legalized, a very central argument was that it would lead to less use of other means of force such as dog, stick and gun. When you look at the statistics, it is quite clear that this has not happened, but that the use of pepper spray has so far just become a supplement and, like it has been put on top of the other reporting agents that the police have. Does the rapporteur from the Conservatives not see this as a problem, especially in view of the fact that the Østre Landsret has described a private person's use of pepper spray as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110549	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110550	Thank you. I feel like I don't know 'cause I don't know if there's been any more relationship. One thing is, if you haven't used staff and dog less I don't know the survey, so I don't know. It is not certain that it has been used less, but if there have now been more conditions, if there have been several situations where it has been necessary to use it. I think that using pepper spray must be better than the police are going to use spells. It must be in the interests of both the criminal and the police. So I don't really have that concern. I have confidence and I would like to say that the police are using pepper spray right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110633	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110634	I would say that I actually get a little worried when I experience or see the Institute for Human Rights in 2015 publishing a report in which they find that officers perceive pepper spray as one of the most gentle means of power. I do not think this is really consistent with the fact that Østre Landsret characterises the use of pepper spray as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature. I think it is a fundamental problem when the introduction of pepper spray was originally introduced with the argument that it would lead to less use of force in other areas, for example. In relation to guns, and it hasn't happened. So, even if you can be in favour of pepper spray, and that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, that is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, it must then give some thought that it does not result in what was originally thought would result.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110724	I have the approach that I believe it is self-evident. So, the Østre Landsret decides on a specific case. The Østre Landsret has not dealt with whether it would have been better to use a gun or a staff or a dog. I mean, I'm dealing with this and I think it's common sense that the police are learning how to use this drug. I think it goes without saying that it is the best thing to use. Instead of the police pulling the poles or sending dogs after people, it's better that you use pepper spray, pacify people and calm down. Well, we just need to remember why the police are using this. I'm not kidding. This is because they sometimes have to deal with types that need to be handcuffed and that need to be taken care of. Well, we make it sound like it's little innocent Louise walking around here on the street, then being laid down by some cops with pepper spray. That's not what this is about. It is in the tough situations or in battle situations that it is going on, so I think it is common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110826	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more questions. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028110833	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of the draft law. We should not accept systematic and obvious trade in hashish in the streets or at certain addresses. It creates insecurity, and we owe it to those who live in the areas that we constantly have the best possible tools to combat hash trade. One of the existing tools, which have generally had a positive effect, is the ability of the police to ban visits to a specific address if systematic offences are carried out there, for example. hash trading. Before such a ban can be imposed, a warning must be given to the person who has the premises. The police find that visiting bans are being tried by circumventing the illegal activity, for example. hash trading, moved to another location, often in the immediate vicinity of the premises affected by a visitor ban. In this way, the persons concerned can continue their illegal activities without losing their previous customer base. We cannot accept this as legislators. Therefore, there is a need to improve the possibility of using a visitor ban. The first part of the draft law therefore proposes the introduction of a rule allowing for the absence of a prior warning if, within the last three months, the law prohibits other premises within a radius of 500 m. The police will thus be able to intervene more quickly in a situation where, for example, the circle behind a hash club, which is hit by a visitor ban, simply reopens the hash club in other premises nearby, for example. in another apartment in the same residential property. In addition, the draft law proposes modernising the rules on the publication of a visitor ban so that in future the police can publish a ban in one or more appropriate media and not only in the local press as it has been so far. The purpose of this modernisation is to allow the police to publish in future a visit ban on, inter alia: the website of the police circle or the social media. In this way, the police can reach a larger and more relevant circle of people when the visitor ban is to be published. The second part of the bill concerns the use of pepper spray by the police. Pepper spray is the most frequent means of power used by the police and it is therefore proposed that the use of pepper spray by the police should be regulated in the same way as the other means of power available to the police, for example. Guns, sticks and dogs. The use of pepper spray by the police is now regulated administratively and there are no intended changes in the use of the means of power by the police. The use of pepper spray must, as in the past, be in accordance with the general principles of police law for the use of force. This means that the use in a specific situation must be necessary, sound, as gentle as circumstances permit, and proportional to the interests sought by the use of force. In this context, the question whether the use of force is likely to cause harm to third parties is part of the assessment of good repute. Whether there is a basis for using force in the form of pepper spray in a specific situation will therefore continue to be based on a concrete police professional assessment of the circumstances of a given situation. With those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their speeches. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament, and I am of course available to answer questions which may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111212	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111217	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on some of the considerations I made on behalf of the SF, so that there are some things that can be weighed against each other. It is, among other things, that when you take a tool of force, such as pepper spray, which is of course milder than firearms, but after all, the use of force is still gone, and it has been used with the argument that it would not be used more forcefully, and when we can look at statistics, that overall there has been no fall, what does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111259	Firstly, I think it is a good thing that we are moving from administrative practice to a practice created by legislation. I think that is quite reasonable. Secondly, I would like to add that we have seen developments in a number of areas where people have increasingly not wanted to comply with police instructions, and that is where we must ensure that our police officers have the opportunity to enforce what I have said here in a proportionate and as gentle manner as possible. And that is where I think pepper spray is a sensible tool in certain contexts. Several rapporteurs have explained this, and I agree with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111343	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111345	Okay. Perhaps the Minister's answer was that there has been more violence or trouble and that people are more resisted, and therefore the possibility of using force has increased. In general terms, we can enjoy this and we often forget that in these debates we have in Parliament that crime in Denmark is falling. It is significant, and this has been the case for a long time. Then there are, of course, some places, in some environments where it has become coarser, even though overall it has fallen. But then I'd like to ask the Minister a question about this whole weed club thing. It is clear that it is a desire of the police not to have to go through the same trummer room every time some move to a new apartment or whatever it may be. But does the Minister not think that, if we are going to touch some rather central concepts of the Constitution in relation to freedom of assembly and property, etc., we should at least address it in a legislative proposal where we begin to expand something that was actually quite controversial when it was introduced at first?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111457	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111458	My own idea of what I am being asked here is that it is untenable if one knows so clearly bypassing in reality society blows a hatful. For what this proposal is aimed at are people who have been warned and who are then put off in relation to the particular place from which they sell hashish and simply move nearby. These people, this circle of persons are there are the legal guarantees that must be in this respect. And I don't really understand what protection reasons SF believes it is in this context. When I think of the means of power, such as: The left is very fond of tax, so I am amazed at the level of protection that we believe hash dealers should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111549	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111551	The last one was a little foggy, I thought. It was not quite clear what the Minister of Justice meant by that. But it is true that we on the left would like to fight economic crime enormously. Billions of kroner are scammed every year, SKAT has been saved to pieces, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: But with regard to this bill, I would like to ask a question about pepper spray. In the 2015 report, the Institute of Human Rights says that there is a need for clarification of the current rules and for a sharpening of practices in relation to e.g. The police are not allowed to use pepper sprays on persons over whom they have gained control; that the police are not allowed to use pepper sprays on the driver of a vehicle on high speed; unfortunately, the police are not allowed to use pepper spray in closed rooms; and that the police are not allowed to use pepper spray on the mentally ill either. Are these any sharpenings and clarifications that the Minister of Justice sees there might be need for?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111657	In other words, I do not see that the use of pepper spray by the police is, in general, unproportional, and I believe that there is a clear practice in terms of the circumstances under which it should take place, so I do not share that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111713	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111714	For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. see that the use of pepper spray today in 15%. In the case of mentally ill people, is it not a sign for the Minister that resources may be lacking in the bourgeois police? It has actually been cut back since 2011 and something has been criticised by Enhedslisten. But it is also a sign that, for example, there is. There is a lack of police training when you find yourself in a situation where it is necessary to use such a serious means of power as pepper spray, against mentally ill people. Does this not give rise to some reflection by a minister who comes from a party that calls itself the Liberal Party of Denmark and who should therefore, from the outset, be interested in the least possible use of force against citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111758	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111759	I feel that I have a view of police training as being different from that, sir. Rune Lund describes. It is in fact the case that the police are trained very in-depthly that much time is spent on teaching about mental illness and the way in which the mentally ill are handled. So I just don't recognize the picture being drawn of the police being unprepared for this. In relation to the lack of police, I would like to say that this is something that Parliament has dealt with by the fact that a group of parties has come together for a police agreement, whereby more funds are allocated to the police • 2 billion. kr. towards 2019 but the challenge is, of course, that it takes time to get that money translated into actual people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111853	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111856	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, I raised the question of the distance requirement for this radius, the 500 m boundary, and it is actually because I think it would be interesting to know how exactly the Ministry has reached 500 m. The Danish People's Party backs the proposal, but it might be interesting to know whether there was a middle bill or some other estimate that makes it exactly 500 m. Otherwise, if the Minister is interested, we are quite open to increasing that distance because it might be an effective means, and also because in some cases 500 m will be quite a little, and then one could easily look at making it bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111936	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028111938	It has been the police's estimate that this was what was necessary in order to get rid of the evil that we are talking about here. This is not a sacrosanct border, I would say. There's room for movement. In other words, if you just extend this very, very much, it is clear that there may be some problems in relation to some of the discussions that have been raised here. So this is the police's estimate for it to be an effective instrument.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112010	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112011	Then I would like to ask a few questions about the pepper spray, which has also been the subject of the debate. I have the impression that Danish police officers are doing a really, really good job here; it has not caused any problems, at least not very much problems or difficulties, with this area. After all, the minister has also gone into the case with the prison officers and has ensured that the availability of prison officers is increased if they are standing and need a pepper spray. Should you take it a little as if the government is on the move in this area and say: Well, we would like to take small steps forward towards quite ordinary people finally being allowed to get a pepper spray for example. Home?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112048	It is not long ago that we had that discussion in the Chamber, and I can say that the government has not changed its position on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112055	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112108	The debate is open, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112118	The bill here translates the political partial agreement on the criminalisation of the explicit approval of certain offences in the context of religious training, which was concluded on 31 May by the parties in the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we have also had a very detailed discussion of this proposal in connection with this agreement. The purpose of the bill is to counter behaviour that undermines Danish laws and values and supports parallel legal perceptions. The draft law means that in future it will be punishable, as part of religious education, to expressly approve terror, killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and polywry, and that is whether the statements are made in private or in public but, as I said, as part of religious training. The bill implies that the activities of both religious ministers and those of others who express themselves in the context of religious training will be subject to criminalisation. This is precisely what we have seen in the documentary from Grimmøj, where religious training took place, and where some of these things were called for which we no longer want to be legal, and there we saw that it was not possible to hold these religious preachers to account for their utterances. Let me make it quite clear that it is not a joke that we are dealing with the bill here today. I understand that we can have a debate on this and that we can look at this differently, but it's not a joke. For we have seen religious teachers who have called for the killing of Jews and homosexuals and who have encouraged the stoning of women or violence against women or even participation in terrorist actions. We simply do not want to help women, children and young people to experience religious heads where, as part of religious education, they are confronted with calls which, under no circumstances, belong in the Danish democratic society. But we do not imagine that this bill solves all the problems, and that is also why there is a need at the same time to strengthen social action so that the very same women, children and young people experience that society is on their side when they want to break with parallel societies, with the call for violence and with the threats, and so we would also call on the government to include these aspects in real negotiations, on which we also had a discussion when we concluded this agreement. With these words, I would like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party support this proposal. I admit that this is an ideological discussion about whose side you are, namely whether it is the women, the children and the young people that you want to support in their struggle to get out of these environments, or it is the religious preachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112445	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112448	The last one was like that either you're with us, or you're against us-formulation. I find that a little frightening when we discuss restrictions on something as fundamental as freedom of expression. We are some people who allow us to take the view that it does not make sense to ban insane attitudes, but that insane attitudes must be combated in the open. We are some people who allow us to take the view that when you make restrictions on freedom of expression, so that it only applies to people such as myself. If we agree with Mrs Trine Bramsen, we have a fundamental problem because we are destroying the democracy we claim to be defending. We also have the problem when a majority wants to start making restrictions on freedom of expression, that it becomes totally unclear what it is that you must and what it is that you cannot do. We can read that statements made as part of religious training in a church, temple or mosque may be punishable, while, as a general rule, speeches in ordinary mass media will not be punishable because they are so-called public debate. So what the parish priest says in the church may be punishable, but if you write a speech in Kristeligt Dagblad, it is not punishable. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether that is the way it should be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112601	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112602	The reason why the bill says that it should be part of religious education is precisely because it is in the situation where you have a religious teacher who preaches, teaches, gives guidelines on how to live life and how it should be lived. But there is a difference between that and taking part in a political debate. After all, in the political debate, a great many things have been said, and there is the premise that it is under discussion. But it's not in the religious rooms. There is the premise that there is a religious head who tells and gives guidelines on how to live properly. That's the problem with this bill. We are quite happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112650	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112651	So I have to understand that if a crazy speech is made by a priest or an imam in a church or a mosque, it must be punishable. If a priest or an imam presents exactly the same view in exactly the same way in a daily newspaper the next day, then it is not punishable. Is this how it should be understood and is this a dignified way of dealing with freedom of expression in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112724	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112725	However, I do not really understand why Enhedslisten is asking that question, because it is very clearly formulated in the bill we are discussing here, namely as part of religious training. And we support the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112738	Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112740	Thank you. After all, there is a Lutheran concept called the general priesthood, which means that every baptized person is obliged to go out and preach and train in the Protestant faith. When Mrs Trine Bramsen stands on the platform of the Folketing and says that religious preaching is that there are some who say that it should be and that it is not open to discussion, then it must be a sign that Mrs Trine Bramsen does not know about Luther and Luther's approach to what it means to be baptized.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112810	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112811	I think that is taking this debate as far as I can. What we are discussing here is calls for criminal acts to be sanctioned by terror, killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and multi-wifery. And let's just stick to the fact that that's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112831	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112832	Well, we're talking about religious training. It's like the concept used here. We come here in conflict with one of the most fundamental freedoms of the Constitution, namely freedom of expression. And I would like to ask what the Socialist rapporteur's argument is for this to apply in relation to religious statements, but not in relation to political statements. Because if that is true in relation to religious statements in the interpretation given by Mrs Trine Bramssen there, then it is not for Protestant priests they are exempted in advance but it is for other religions, or how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112910	That, too, is the draft law. Of course, this is true of all religious ministers. This is true in all situations where religious training is involved. That is very clear in the draft law. And may I not repeat again the same answer that I gave to Mr. Rune Lund: We believe that there is a difference between the situation when a preacher is part of a religious education and tells how life is to be lived, and there calls for something that is thus punishable, that is to say calls for terror, killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and multi-wifery, and when you take part in an open public debate about it. There's a difference with our eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112953	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028112955	Others have mentioned this: there is some ambiguity. One thing is differences of opinion: how far should freedom of expression apply, who should it apply to, etc.? But another thing is the proposal itself and the definition. Mrs Mette Bock referred to the concept of religious education. It is a little unclear what it actually contains. That is why I would like to ask quite specifically. If a free school teacher at a Christian or Muslim free school says to his students: You know what, it's okay if your parents give you a little rap on your fingers once in a while, because then you know what's right and wrong. Is this covered by these new rules on criminalisation? Is that something for which they must be punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113038	That depends on the specific situation. What is the subject of what course does the person in question teach, and what is his connection with it? I'll let the courts decide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113049	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113049-2	Okay. In other words, the rapporteur cannot answer that at all. I just think it's interesting. The judicial system must one day sit and administer these rules, but if the politicians who have supported this proposal cannot even say what applies themselves, then the demarcation of freedom of expression is placed in the hands of some lawyers instead of us politicians, who should at least take responsibility for the restrictions that we are proposing. Let me ask you something else. If a primary school teacher tells his students that it's okay that their parents sometimes give them a rap on their fingers, so they learn what's right and bad, is it always without punishment and completely okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113133	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113134	I think that is a strange question, because it is not right for a school teacher to stand and call for it. It's in the contract of employment, so there's already rules for it. You can be released as a result of it. However, when Mrs Zenia Stampe asks about the second part, I think it is quite real to say that one cannot answer the question of the specific situation. From the lawmakers' platform we cannot answer whether it is a religious preacher or whether it is what one would call religious training. It is left to the courts. I think that is quite real.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113211	Sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113214	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am a little curious to hear about what the rapporteur mentioned, namely that there have been examples of sayings about stoning and other things. How many examples are there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113234	What are concrete examples of is from the documentary broadcast from the spring, which I do not think has passed anyone's nose. It's called "Mosques behind the veil." And the people behind certain statements in the broadcast could not be held accountable. We think that is a problem. In the past there have been examples of calls for the killing of Jews, who have also been problematic to prosecute. So we think that's an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113301	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113302	In fact, I find it very interesting that the rapporteur himself mentions this television broadcast. In the hearing of the Association for Legal Affairs they write: While it has previously been considered unfortunate to legislate on the basis of individual cases, it seems increasingly, especially in areas relating to criminal law, to be practice today. I do not know how we are to base our democratic society on the fact that we are constantly tackling individual cases. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113332	Whether this is going on once or once I don't think that's the case or whether it's going on 100 times or 1,000 times, this is an ideological question. Do we think it is okay for religious ministers, as part of religious training, to stand and say that women should be stoned if they are unfaithful? No, we do not mean that in the Social Democracy because we have very strong equality values. And the very strong equality values, the very strong values of freedom that we stand for, therefore, are heavier than having the right as a religious preacher to express himself on such things here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113409	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Again it's good with the long legs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113423	Thank you. The bill here is the result of the agreement that we in the Danish People's Party have made together with the government, the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Conservatives. For us, it is a matter of drawing a very clear line in the sand towards those people and parallel societies in whom there is a hostile atmosphere towards Denmark and who systematically try to undermine Denmark and our Danish values. Earlier this year, TV 2 very cleverly revealed that there is a group of people in Denmark who are actively trying to fight our values. "Mosques behind the veil" was the name of the broadcast. I think most Danes were completely speechless left after seeing it. It was absolutely horrible to listen to religious preachers, organizations and associations who should be deeply grateful to Denmark for the ocean of opportunities offered by our country, choosing to use the freedom to systematically combat Denmark and the value base. Well, we let people into this country, you gotta be able to compare it to having guests. We must be able to expect to behave properly and to be grateful for the hospitality we meet with rather than to step on it. Some people have not understood that. Then, of course, it is our job to ensure that action is taken to actively defend Denmark. It is our responsibility, it is our duty. With the bill, we are taking action here against the subversive activity that is under way. We do this by ensuring that it is punishable, as part of religious training, by cheaping terror, killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and multi-wifery. That's the right way to go. As DFs, I am pleased that we are taking this step in this type of case, partly to take care of Denmark, partly to combat the dark forces that are trying to use our very freedom and tolerance to fight freedom and tolerance. Therefore, it is quite excellent that we now take the spoon in the other hand and get started. I can also welcome the fact that many of these initiatives are some that the Danish People's Party has brought to the negotiating table. You can be proud of that. I am delighted that the comments on the draft law specifically state that, if the rules are infringed, it will be possible, of course, to deport them in accordance with the rules in force. I think that is quite excellent. For Denmark, of course, should not be a heating room for a bunch of long-bearded religious darkmen who want to turn our peaceful little country into a hatchery for extreme Islamists. It is no secret that we ourselves have thought that this has been a sluggish process. It's been a long time to get going. But then something happened. That's why we have the bill today. We are quite satisfied with that. That is why I can also say that we intend to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113725	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113732	It is clear from paragraph 2.1.3 of the comments that statements to democratically change the legal situation will not be covered by this draft law and that support for the restoration of the right of rebuke, that is, the right to strike its children, will not be punishable unless it is at the same time an expression of the need to do so before any change in the legal situation. Does this include, and this is a question of the interpretation of the law, which I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion that no statement to change the legal situation democratically could be punished when it is stressed in the context of the statement that the actions that are to be decriminalised must not be carried out before any change in the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113820	It's a complicated question, of course, as sir. Rune Lund asked, and I would like to recommend Mr. Rune Lund to address it to the Minister for Justice, because then the Ministry of Justice will be able to give a very detailed answer to that very point, Mr. Rune Lund wants answers. But what is at the heart of this proposal is the call for crime, that is, the branches I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and the criminalisation of that call as part of religious training. That's what's worth holding on to. This was what the TV 2 broadcast clearly showed was going on in broad daylight here in Denmark, and that was what many of us were very offended about was not possible to hit sufficiently hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113900	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113904	I find it a little strange that the rapporteur cannot answer this question, because it is really central. If you argue in favour of positions that are crazy but believe that it should only be possible to do so after a change in the legal situation, will it be covered by the legislative proposal or will it not be covered by the legislative proposal? For example: If you think that there may be many different examples of child genital mutilation, would it be covered by the bill if you think that this should happen after a change in the legal situation, or how? This question is absolutely central. It is a mystery to me that the rapporteur cannot answer this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113943	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028113944	If there's anything that's a big mystery to me, it's that mr. After all, Rune Lund has not long ago, before the first reading, tried to clarify these matters through the Minister. Well, then, sir. Rune Lund could rise up and give all the answers or use them in his rapporteur's speech or do with them what Mr. Rune Lund wanted to. For me, what is central and what we want to tackle is the very call for crime. That is what we want to come for. This is what we have seen systematically used to try to undermine this country and our values. And we don't want that. It has to be said that little has happened in this area for many years. So it's time for us to take the spoon in the other hand with these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114019	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114022	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur agree that freedom of expression is a fundamental right; that it is mentioned in the constitution and as such inviolable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114035	I can agree with Mrs Mette Bock that freedom of expression is a fundamental value that we fully support. I think it is very important that we have a strong freedom of expression in Denmark. After all, we have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions in this Chamber over the last few months. So I can only say yes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114053	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114055	Freedom of expression is a central right of liberty which is inviolable but. Is that the lead that the Danish People's Party is entering? That is one question. The second question is that I would ask the rapporteur to define what a religious minister is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114111	Finally, I would like to say that you can look up the remarks and see what it says there and follow them in the seams. And then I'm gonna have to give the same advice that I gave to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, in relation to addressing the questions to the Minister. After all, it is the Minister who sits on the whole of the Ministry of Justice, and that is why it would also be appropriate to go in that direction with the parts relating to the bill. In relation to freedom of expression, I think you have to see this in several tracks. For I would say that, in this way, I consider this to be a real tightening-up of religious freedom, more than it should be a tightening-up of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114145	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114147	Now Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen the long-bearded religious darkmen, but I know Krarup is not long-bearded. However, I would like to ask: if Krarup tells his parishioners that it is okay to give the children a little rap on their fingers, is that something that is covered by this criminalization of statements from religious ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114216	It's sir. Søren Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114219	Thank you for the question. I would suggest that the specific individual cases or proposals which Mrs Zenia Stampe and other good people can make in this Chamber should be put to the Minister. Then I am sure the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114232	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114234	That is, excuse me, simply irresponsible. We are talking about the fact that right now there is a political restriction on freedom of expression, and when we then ask in what cases this should apply, reference is made to the officials or the Minister of Justice. I can even understand that this is really something for which the Danish People's Party has been a banner leader, and I wish that the Danish People's Party was able to tell itself how the demarcation should take place. I have to ask again: if Mr. Søren Krarup says in a sermon that it may be okay for parents to beat their children, so that they know what is right and what is wrong, is it covered by this criminalization of statements by religious preachers? It should be a very easy case to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114317	But Mrs Zenia Stampe can ask the same question twice, and she will also get the same answer. That's the way it is. However, in order to return to the issue of freedom of expression, which Mrs Zenia Stampe is very concerned about, I should like to say that I regard this as a narrowing of freedom of religion and, as such, not a narrowing of freedom of expression. This involves religious training and encouraging crime as part of religious education. It's kind of central.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114346	Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114348	Thank you. I would like to ask about the rapporteur's expectations of the impact of the legislative proposal. I assume that the hope is that the positions that are now being criminalised are somehow undermined and perhaps ultimately completely disappeared. We have another area where we criminalise statements in Denmark, namely when it comes to racism. That is why I would like to ask you about the rapporteur's assessment of how effective the racism clause has been in eliminating racism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114421	Thank you to the questioner. You could say that these are two completely different things. The racism clause, i.e. § 266b, is one thing that goes on quite consciously and systematically to narrow the freedom of expression. After all, this proposal concerns freedom of religion and the call for crime as a result of religious education. So I really do not think that the two things are immediately comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114443	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114444	Although the rapporteur does not think that the two things are comparable, the rapporteur can of course answer the very specific question, namely whether the rapporteur believes that the racism clause has helped to eradicate racism in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114458	I mean, I think the racism clause is a bad paragraph. It really undermines the free debate, no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114511	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114514	I am curious whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that the European Court of Human Rights has established that the state cannot go in and decide which beliefs can or cannot be preached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114538	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Roger Matthiesen refers to the answer to the hearing. There are, of course, a number of consultation answers, and I have to refer that to Mr Van der Klaauw. Roger Matthisen states that it is very clear that this is not considered to be contrary to the Constitution or to Denmark's international obligations. If that is the angle of the international commitments to be sought, then I have to say that it is not contrary to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114604	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114606	Thank you. The rapporteur then says that watching a television documentary is a matter of indignation, and I understand if the rapporteur feels that way. I also sometimes resent what is happening in Paradise Hotel, or whatever it is called, but when it is now established in a hearing answer that the Council of Ministers says that we need to examine what legislative initiatives are already in place and that we need to examine the issue, and the Institute for Human Rights says that the draft law should be suspended and that there should be a more thorough assessment, what does the rapporteur think about these recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114649	In view of the fact that this should have been considered longer and spent more time deepening it and so on, I have to say that it has been a really, really long process. This is not something that has come over one night, but it is something that has taken many months, that is, from the first time the government called for negotiations, until the whole negotiation process started and a bill can be made until there is a hearing answer and we can now stand here and deal with it first, and the process has not yet been completed. So I would say that I think this is a bad argument, because it is a very thorough and very long-lasting process, and the gods should know that I would like that process to have been considerably shorter, and I think we have waited incredibly long. That's one thing. The other thing is that I do not think that you can compare what is revealed in the mosques behind the veil with the Paradise Hotel. If that were to be a comparison, I think it would be very, very wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114741	I would remind the rapporteur that we do not normally call on the higher powers in this Parliament. No one else has asked to speak, and so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur's position. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028114758	Thank you. The previous speech bears witness to the fact that there may be fluid boundaries between religious training and political propaganda. But what we have here is serious enough. Most people may remember the television documentary that TV 2 was running, and I would like to take the opportunity to praise them for the great work and thorough research they had carried out to show us all what is going on in the mosques behind the veil, which was the title of the series, where they could reveal through hidden television recordings how some religious preachers systematically undermine Danish laws, Danish values, and where they preach a completely parallel view of the law. A spokesperson from a Danish mosque assured us that the mosque in question respected all Danish rules and that, moreover, it was urged to take an active part in Danish society. But the hidden footage in the mosque showed a different picture. You saw in the documentary, among other things. examples of women being advised not to divorce violent husbands, they were told to accept if their husbands wanted to take more wives, and perhaps the most serious thing, they were instructed how to beat their children as part of child rearing. Look, Denmark is a democratic society. We have freedom of expression, we have equality and we have freedom of religion, and that is something we are proud of, and we regard these rights as the very foundation of our Danish society. But when you see a television series like the mosques behind the veil, it becomes clear, unfortunately, that these rights are not a matter of course, and that there are forces in Denmark that, under the guise of religion, are trying to undermine our society and our common Danish values, and we must fight that as a society. To get ahead of various issues, I would say that we in the Left are not so naive that we believe that a few paragraphs of the penal code with a magic spell will make everyone true democrats who celebrate gender equality and accept homosexuality, etc. and so on, and that is not what the draft law is about either. On the whole, legislation is not the most effective way of influencing attitudes, but here we all have school teachers and staff in day care, clubs and so on. a much bigger role to play. Dialogue and impact on attitudes in schools and at work, etc. is much more important in this area than legislation. However, this does not change the fact that there are areas where we need to use legislation. When attitudes can lead to acts that are illegal, we, as a legislative power, must take action, and we have done so before, and we are doing so again. When certain religious ministers, who enjoy great respect and authority in their congregation, directly approve of gross criminal offences such as terror, violence, killing, rape, incest, paedophilia, coercion, detention, and polywry, we simply have to find sensible, effective and effective answers. If you are not very faithful yourself, it may be difficult to understand the power that religious preachers can have over their congregation, and the problem is of course greatest when you consider the priest's • or, in practice, perhaps most often imam's words as law. When one follows a law religion so blindly that one is willing to override the worldly laws, if it conflicts with the preacher's words, then it is deeply problematic. We therefore need to find concrete solutions that go beyond ordinary dialogue-based initiatives, and that is why the government, together with a number of other parties, has proposed that in future it should be punishable in the context of religious training to expressly approve terrorism, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and multi-wifery, and that is to say, whether the statements have been made publicly or in more private contexts. It is a complex exercise, and I acknowledge this, to deal with the criminalisation of statements in a legislative context, and this presupposes that you act both carefully and cautiously. Needless to say, it is of no use that in the search for subversive religious preachers we suddenly find ourselves in a situation where we ourselves compromise the fundamental freedoms of our society. For the Left, therefore, it is also crucial that the draft law be established within the framework of both the constitution and the rule of law, and with respect for our international obligations, and that is what the draft law does. So the agreement does not change the fact that there must, of course, remain a great deal of room to think what you want. In the Left, we do not want to be the attitude police, and we want there to be room for different religions in Denmark in the future too. I would like to point out that, of course, it must be allowed to be a supporter of the death penalty, to reinstate the right of reproof and, for that matter, to work for it politically, but if, with the great influence that one can have as a religious preacher, one expressly approves these very serious crimes as part of religious preaching, then it will in future be punishable. I believe that we have found a good balance between the defence of freedom of expression and the fight against religious radicalisation, and I welcome the fact that there is a solid majority in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115334	I should like to point out that there is a speaking time that can be observed. Speaking time is five minutes and not 51⁄2 minutes. There are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115352	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen comes from a party called Denmark's Liberal Party. When it is a party which is then in government and puts forward such a bill here, which would undermine freedom of expression, and on an incredibly unclear basis, one gradually gets the idea that the thing about being Denmark's liberal party must gradually be a false trade name. There must be freedom of expression for some, and then there must be freedom of expression for others. Freedom of expression must not be universal, regardless of who you are. If it is not an undermining of fundamental rights, if it is not an undermining of freedom of expression for which a liberal party should fight, then I do not know what it is. It can be seen in the draft law, which has the subtitle "Criminalisation of the explicit approval of certain offences in the context of religious training," that it is merely stated in the title that it is extremely unclear what it is about, for example. When is it a matter of approval and not merely a representation of the contents of religious writings?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115501	Yes, and sir. Rune Lund comes from a party that calls itself Enhedslisten, which previously called itself the Communist Party of Denmark, the Left Socialists and the Socialist Workers' Party. I have to say that I feel a little bad about having to be taught about freedom of expression by someone with political roots. I think we should applaud the horse when we talk about undermining freedom of expression. Well, we've never had absolute freedom of expression, and we'll never have that either. If I told you that I had brought a bomb here on the platform, I can promise that the Assembly Hall would be cleared immediately and I would be punished afterwards. Would that be a violation of my freedom of speech? No, of course not. What we are talking about here is the approval of criminal offences, in other words, as I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech, positions which could lead to offences that are punishable. I know that even if Mr. Rune Lund is probably not violently religious when he comes with the political roots that he does, so there is an influence in certain religious environments that is so great that it is in itself that a preacher says: This is how you should do, dear congregation • can lead to the congregation actually doing so. And I think that the crimes we are talking about, such as violence against children, are something that should not be played down in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115623	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115626	I can hear that it hurts the rapporteur that the Enhedslisten is more liberal than the Left, which calls itself the Liberal Party of Denmark. I can hear that it hurts the rapporteur to move into a slippery path, where you are prepared to put freedom of expression on the market in order to be able to send a signal that you want to do something about crazy attitudes, which you do not do. They're forbidden, but it doesn't fight them. Following on from my question, I was not given a clear explanation of what is approved and what is represented by content from religious writings. I would also like to ask when approval is express and not for example. implied or indirect. That is also very unclear in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115713	I agree that this is a difficult area. That is what I said in my presentation. I agree with that. That the Enhedslisten is more liberal than the Left, I think may surprise some of the Enhedslisten's members, but leave it alone. When is approval explicit? That is what the draft law says: it is not just a question of approval, it must be an explicit consent, and it is precisely to ensure that the courts do not enter the grey area, where one has to consider whether there might be a little implied approval here. It must be an express approval: "It is written in these writings that you must do so." I agree with that, for example, express approval will be granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115755	Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115758	Thank you. I have two questions. One is quite simple: I want to know whether the rapporteur shares the view of the Danish People's Party that L 18 is not so much about restricting freedom of expression as restricting freedom of religion. That was point 1. Paragraph 2 is, in fact, more interesting. It's about this religious upbringing thing. This isn't just supposed to affect what's going on in the pulpit. It's also a matter of sayings in private homes. I'm part of a home where we're a member of the church, and we go to church. I have three children, they are adults, they are also members of the church, and they also go to church. I would say that the religious training that these children have undergone is primarily religious training which has taken place in their homes. That's what they grew up with. Since this bill also includes what is going on in private homes and that is where the most important religious training takes place at all, how does the rapporteur think it should be possible to do so within the four walls of the home?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028115901	To the first question, I would like to say that this is some form of restriction on both material freedom of expression and material freedom of religion. That it would be a problem to express oneself or, for that matter, to practice one's religion without at the same time condoning these very violent crimes, I would be very doubtful about it. I am quite sure that is not something that has happened to Mrs Mette Bock's home, in other words that you have trained your children to commit the crimes involved here. I agree that there will be a number of difficulties of proof and a lot that will fall outside of this, perhaps also with the use of what is referred to in criminal law as material atypicity, so that in this particular case Mrs Mette Bock will not be regarded as a religious preacher, even though I am in favour of giving our children values, of course, and that may include religious values.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120007	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120009	I understand that this is what parents do per year. definition is outside this area. So, if you are a parent, you are not a religious preacher in a material sense. I would very much like a clear answer to that. Then there's another thing I'd like to hear. Sometimes we make new laws instead of using the laws that are actually there in advance, but we do know that in section 23 there is already a provision in the penal code to that effect. What is it that makes us not able to use existing legislation for what we agree we want to fight against, that is to say, we all agree on that rather than start making new laws, which is really a slippery path on the way towards restricting both freedom of religion and freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120054	I dare not go so far as to answer the question as to whether parents saw per. definition falls outside the scope of the law. Parents will also be able to be punished for complicity in some of the cases of honour killings we have. There, too, there will be a penalty for participation. The reason why participation does not cover this area is that there must be a direct, clear link between a call and a specific crime that has taken place. In other words, you must be able to go in and document directly in a trial that person A has beaten your child and that he has done so after hearing a sermon by person B.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120136	The last brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120140	I would like to ask whether soul sorrow is covered by religious training, that is, if a priest in connection with soul mourning to a parishioner indicates that he has married a violent man, but it is a good marriage anyway, so I think you should stay with him. He's gonna hit your kids. Well, sometimes it's okay to do it. If a priest expresses it in connection with soul grief, is it covered by this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120214	I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe's speech here today has had such a strange, deceptive attitude towards wife violence, violence against children. I have to admit, I'm wondering. It almost seems that Mrs Zenia Stampe is in some rhetorical course and must argue for something quite different from what Mrs Zenia Stampe normally stands for. So I am not sure that I fully understand the premise for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120245	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120247	I'm sure Mr. Knox wouldn't mind. Jan E. Jørgensen knows what I think about violence against children. I am also a little interested in the double standards of this bill because it applies to some and not to others. You can tell your friends and acquaintances, and there are other authorities than religious authorities. But I would like to ask the question again, because I really think it was about Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen did not want to answer my question, which was very, very clear. I have told others that I have the expectation that the politicians who will vote in favour of this proposal will also know what it will include, because it is about something as important as freedom of expression. Is soul grief and approval of violence against the wife, violence against children included in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120331	It may be. I mean, if you tell your imam or pastor that you're sorry about your child's behavior, your child has married someone from another religion and the priest says, "I think you should commit honour killing." Then it will be included, of course it will.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120358	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, 39 years old and 363 days old. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120419	That's right. The Enhedslisten is outside the agreement under which this bill is based, and we cannot support it if it should have ignored someone's attention. The background to this bill is a series of programs that were broadcast on TV 2 in the spring of 2016 with the joint title "Mosques behind the veil." The programmes led to a series of negotiating meetings with the Minister for Culture and the Church at the end of the table. The meetings resulted in an agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives and in a vote agreement with the SF, which signed most of the agreement of the four parties. Today we are discussing the proposal to criminalise the explicit approval of certain offences as part of religious training. Like the Minister for Culture's bill on restrictions on access to funding under the National Education Act, which we discussed earlier this month, this bill contains a large number of demarcation problems. One can almost hear it from the not very accurate description of the content of the draft law, which I just quoted: "Criminalisation of the explicit approval of certain offences in the context of religious training. When is it a matter of approval and not merely of the representation of content from religious writings? When is approval explicit and not e.g.? implied or indirect? When is it religious instruction, and when is it just religious instruction in goose eyes? In the comments, we can read that statements made as part of religious training in a church, temple or mosque or religious magazines may be punishable, while, as a general rule, speeches made in ordinary mass media will not be punishable, because this is what is called a general public debate. For what the parish priest says from the pulpit on Sundays may be punishable, but if she or he gets printed her sermon as a chronicle in Jyllands-Posten on Mondays, it is common public debate. Or what about Kristeligt Dagblad? Is it a religious magazine, or is it a common mass media? The bill is made in such a way that criminalisation could include speeches in religious magazines. When the priest stands in the pulpit, it is religious training. Yes, sir. But what if after the service he gives a small speech at the church café at home in the priesthood, or when during the week he meets with the church council or makes a presentation at a public meeting at the local library? What's up? It is stated in the comments to the bill that freedom of expression is not absolute in Denmark. We have a racism clause, a blasphemy clause, and we also have libel legislation. However, as the Lawyers' Council correctly writes in its hearing answer, the government and the parties to the agreement are embarking on a new field with this bill. In fact, not only do we want to criminalise, as in the current law, statements made with intent on dissemination, but it is clear from the comments that it can also be a criminal offence to make a statement in a confidential conversation with a person. This is something completely new and remarkable and probably a change that deserves a more thorough sweeping of, for example. a committee of experts, which is also proposed by the Council of Lawyers. The immense problem of demarcation in the draft law is highlighted in a large number of serious consultation responses from the Institute for Human Rights, the Council of Attorneys, the Think Tank Justitia and many more, and many of the consultation responses call for not to adopt the bill, but to set up a committee to consider how to do something better than what the parties to the agreement and the Minister of Justice are presenting to us. This should, of course, have been done, and then the parties could, on a solid and sober basis, and not on the basis of a whipped mood after a series of television broadcasts, where Imams express crazy opinions, relate to whether there was a need for legislation. The parties to the agreement did not want that. Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120908	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Excuse me, there was just one brief comment, and it's from Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120918	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that we just basically disagree with Enhedslisten on this issue. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. If you do not want to take part in this, what initiatives do you have? 'Cause I'm not assuming that mr. Rune Lund liked to see what he saw in the TV 2 documentary, the mosques behind the veil. So if you do not support what has been put forward here, what will Enhedslisten do for himself? What commands do you have to solve these problems yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028120951	These are fundamental freedoms. I'm a very liberal person. I believe in freedom of speech. I believe that arguments in the open can win. I believe that if it is not possible to have a public debate, the strongest argument for winning will become weaker. I can see that when there is a legislative proposal like this, which seeks to ban attitudes in various ways, it creates enormous obstacle to freedom of expression. Furthermore, there is a fundamental problem in going in and restricting freedom of expression, because then we are giving the very people we would otherwise fight the guns, because they can go out and say: look at that, freedom of expression, fundamental rights, democracy is not for everyone, but it is only for those who have certain opinions. This actually means that a bill of this nature gives religious extremism an extra argument for them to go out and recruit, for example. We have seen, unfortunately, that young men were exposed to acts of terrorism, such as the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death penalty, the death
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121119	I'm just pretty surprised. Well, I was counting on Mr. Knox. Rune Lund would have spent her time presenting a lot of suggestions on how to tackle these problems. Mr. Rune Lund doesn't. Instead, Mr. Rune Lund just criticizing and criticizing what others have put forward. Wouldn't it be most fair to make your own point of view? What will you do if you think that what you saw in the mosques behind the veil is a problem? It may also be that the rapporteur does not think so, and then you can tell it. But what initiatives does Enhedslisten have to offer himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121149	Last year we presented our own anti-radicalisation plan and it has two fundamental elements: a consistent defence of democracy and fundamental freedoms combined with a high focus on prevention and social action. Because we see, unfortunately, that the people who can be recruited for terrorism in Europe these days are people who are characterised by being young men living on the edge of society and who also have a mental diagnosis in some cases. It is therefore a question here of strengthening welfare, of strengthening prevention, of strengthening social action and of doing so with the long, tough move. You have to get to people already in primary school. That's what's gonna change something. We can do this without destroying democracy by undermining our fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121247	There are three more who have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121253	Thank you. But I'm just so happy that Enhedslisten has joined parties that support freedom of speech. And then I want to hear the rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund, how he deals with the main board member Katrine Toft Mikkelsen from Enhedslisten, who said that after the revolution it will be necessary to ban certain media. I would also like to ask whether we can now finally get the clear disapproval of Enhedslisten from the people who Enhedslisten had admitted to Christiansborg and who threw paint at the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen and then Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller. I guess it can't be said to be an act that was really such a freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121335	I can say that Enhedslisten's position on freedom of expression is quite clear. It has been from Enhedslisten's formation since the early 1990s. I can also say that now the paint case was about • I do not know how much time I need to spend on the fact that some people came to Christiansborg and said that they were going to visit a member of the Danish Parliament who is today a member of the Socialist Group here in the Danish Parliament. At that time, you came into the Folketing and said that you were going in here and that you were going to visit someone, and then you were asked by the guards: Do you know the way? Then you said yes, and then you just walked in. That's how it was back then. But what's the problem here, and that's where mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has the big problem, is that a party that calls itself Denmark's liberal party is, in fact, increasingly prepared to sell out of fundamental freedoms in order to appear as powerful, even without being able to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121434	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121436	I asked two questions: will the rapporteur distance himself from the main board member who said in 2013 that it might be necessary to close the media after the revolution? So 2013 is long after Enhedslisten was started. And will the Enhedslisten disapprove of the people who cast paint on the then Prime Minister and the then Foreign Minister? Both questions can be answered with a yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121501	I can answer very clearly: yes, I am opposed to paint being thrown. I mean, it's violence. I do not believe that this is a democratic way of acting, and I believe that we must, of course, distance ourselves from it. Yes, I see no reason whatsoever why you should go out and ban the media under any circumstances whatsoever. It's not just something I'm saying. That is something that Enhedslisten believes, and that is something that we have a very clear position on. I have to say again that in a number of areas here in the Danish Parliament we are discussing proposals where the Left, together with other parties, will help to adopt things that restrict and restrict freedom of expression, while it is the Left, including the Enhedslisten, which often hold the banner of freedom high and which defends fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121550	Then I give the floor to Mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121553	Thank you. After all, the Enhedslisten is very much in favour of freedom of expression, and I would like to ask the rapporteur: the freedom of expression that you are fighting for also applies to volunteers and employees in asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121612	I am not sure that I fully understand the question, but the freedom of expression applies to everyone. That is the essence of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121629	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121631	The reason why I'm asking the question to Mr. Rune Lund, is that I actually have a specific situation with an asylum centre, where some contracts have been put in place, where it is written here that all kinds of statements to the press must be coordinated with the management. Everyone has said, both municipalities and others, that they think this is a problem. And a query to Enhedslisten has given the answer that you think this might be okay because of the fact that it's vulnerable people. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur again is: is it the view of the Enhedslisten that freedom of expression also applies to volunteers and staff in asylum centres, so that they can say whatever they want to the press without having any consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121708	I can say that, in general, we have a problem with the freedom of expression of public employees, where there is a restriction and where public sector employees see pressure being put on them by management not to comment on specific cases. This is a problem because public servants have knowledge and points that are important to make when we have a democratic debate. Then, of course, there can be specific things that you know about and that relate to specific people or specific situations. So a knowledge that you have gained because you perform a specific function. And there may well be things you cannot go out with, for example. Because you have confidentiality. But that is for me to see another problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121754	Next in the line of questions, sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121758	Thank you. The rapporteur calls himself a fundamental liberal, and I actually like that when the left says that, because that is actually what I see myself when it comes to fundamental freedoms. But there are still places where we are restricted to protect. Well, it could be to protect the weak, to protect the minorities. And when we're in this bill, it's for example. to protect children from the teaching of hate and stoning and paedophile or women or men for that matter. Another protection we also have to protect a group, for example. The racism clause, and when the rapporteur says that the rapporteur is basically liberal and that freedom of expression must not be restricted, I would really like to hear: what is the rapporteur's position on the racism clause? Should it also be abolished? If no, why not, and if so, why?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121850	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we have a situation today where freedom of expression is not absolute, but where there are some exceptions, for example. in relation to libel law. We also have the racism clause. It is a paragraph which has a special status, a paragraph which came after the terrible things we saw in connection with World War II. And that is why I see it as having a special status and that it cannot be compared to what we see in this draft law, where none of those who have stood up here for the time being and spoken for the bill have been able to clarify exactly where the demarcation is. But it may be, sir. Jacob Mark can help me with that when Mr. Jacob Mark himself comes up here, and I would like to ask Mr. Jacob Mark, how Mr. Jacob Mark, for example. understands the demarcation in relation to religious magazines, and about e.g. Christian Dagblad is a religious magazine, or a mass medium.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121953	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028121955	I would very much like to answer the questions that the rapporteur has when I stand on the platform, and I will do so in a moment. Until then, however, I will use the opportunity that I have as rapporteur to put questions to a rapporteur when he is on the platform. I understood that the Enhedslisten will not abolish the racism clause, which means that freedom of expression is restricted precisely in order to protect people. And that, for example. so in a documentary, there were children being taught that stoning is okay and that women are being taught that they are not equal to men. Does the rapporteur not think there is a need to protect them and how will the rapporteur protect them? Because I agree that there must be social efforts, but where you saw that documentary, you have worked with social efforts. What will the rapporteur do to protect the women and children who are exposed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122045	Well, now I can ask you some questions. Jacob Mark, because that is a short remark. We are not at Question Time with the ministers, so you can have a debate when questions are asked during the discussion of legislative proposals here in the Danish Parliament. I note that I did not get an answer to my question, but it is true that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of removing the racism clause because it has a special status. I am very surprised that the Socialist People's Party, having been involved for many years all the way in keeping the banner of freedom of expression very high, has now embarked on a course in which one will try to see if one can criminalise certain phrases. And, of course, we see the enormous problem of demarcation. We see what uncertainty this creates about freedom of expression, and we see that legal certainty in general and also freedom of religion suffer at its expense. I am very sorry that the SF has not been able to distance itself clearly from all the elements of the agreement reached here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122143	We thank the rapporteur. No one else has any brief comments. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122158	Thank you. During these years, Denmark and Europe face massive challenges. Uncontrolled migration, ghetto formations, radicalisation and Islamism are shaking the foundations of our liberal democracies. We must face up to the fact that there are people who deliberately oppose our values and want to overthrow our democracy. But it is when the storms rage that the helm must show its strength, and the rudder on which we must constantly rule in Denmark, the fundamental principles on which liberal democracy is based are principles, such as: freedom of expression. We have been discussing this in depth in recent years and it is absolutely crucial for whether or not we can call ourselves a democracy at all. In Denmark, since the abolition of censorship in 1849, we have punished acts, not attitudes, no matter how crazy these may be. Freedom of speech has survived several attacks by totalitarian forces. Thus, in the 20th century, the free exchange of views was challenged by Nazism and Communism. Today, too, we have dark forces that want to put an end to our liberal democracy and that do not support the fundamental liberal freedoms that are so crucial to us. Let us not help those forces, but let us instead safeguard the foundations of democracy. If we don't stand guard over freedom of speech, who will? When TV 2 in the spring showed a documentary about the conditions in e.g. The Grimhøjmosque, we all felt abhorrence, and for obvious reasons we felt politicians a marked need for action. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports a number of the measures taken to ensure that we do the best possible against the dark forces, but we do not support L 18, which deals with criminalising the explicit approval of certain criminal positions as part of religious training. The proposal is paradoxically the errand of the dark forces by restricting freedom of expression. The Darkmen do not want freedom and democracy, but we will, and we must not let either them or the fear of them, or what they stand for, restrict our freedom of expression. It is worth remembering that we have other options than undermining our other values. We have other laws to lean on. This is evident, for example. Article 23 of the Penal Code states that it is already possible to punish persons who, by means of incitement, advice or deed, have contributed to a criminal offence in which the intention of the person concerned has been put into practice, as well as other prohibitions in the criminal code. We in the Liberal Alliance are also concerned that the restriction of freedom of expression will only be a first step. L 18 targets religious preachers, but what about political preachers who encourage violent rejection of our society? There are too many of them, and they are also deadly for our society and our principles. That is, for example, the case. Not long ago that we had a politician who openly advocated violent revolution and stood to come to the Folketing as an alternate. Finally, I would like to point out that it may be extremely difficult to enforce the law, for when is a priest or an imam religious minister, and when is he a private person? Are you going to stand on a pulpit or are you going to be punished when you put it over a cup of coffee in a private home? Should one be an educated priest or imam, or does the law also apply to people who just walk around expressing religious opinions that are crazy? And is it really the opinion of the proposers that crazy attitudes disappear because they are criminalised? I don't think they do. I think they live on under the radar, where we cannot fight them with counter-arguments and squeezing. Let us breathe deeply, stand firm, protect the fundamental freedoms that form the backbone of our democracy, including freedom of expression, and then jointly fight these fundamentalist statements with the strongest means of all, namely contradiction. We have to go into the discussions and get the Darkmen out into the light so that everyone can see them in their ridicule.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122639	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122653	Thank you. And I am once again a standin for our legal rapporteur, Carolina Magdalene Maier. If anyone has any doubts, we're against the bill as well. In addition to the fact that I see it as an attack on our freedom of expression and it has the character of mind control, we already have legislation that makes it illegal to call for criminal acts. But the parties to the agreement want to go further and interfere in what people approve, in other words interfere in what people think, must express what they feel, what they think, and there should be no doubt that we find it deeply problematic that there are people who approve of terrorism, violence, killing, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and multi-wifery. That's a problem. However, it does not help that we say it countless times up here from this chair without having a deeper analysis of the issues that are, and that is what both the Lawyers' Council, the Institute of Human Rights and a large number of consultative parties recommend. The Bishop of Haderslev Stift states that the bill will lead to arbitrariness, religious fear and suppression of utterances, no matter how much good will there may be in the bill. It is feared that the draft law will be counterproductive and contribute to the isolation of religious communities and the formation of parallel societies. I find it awkward that all this criticism is not being heard in the hearings. I find it awkward that it is totally ignored. So the alternative is a huge no to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122846	No one has asked for brief comments. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028122902	For over 10 years we have been discussing freedom of expression in Denmark, yes, also more than that, but especially after the caricature crisis, it has been one of the most inflamed, debated topics in Danish politics. And again and again we have heard that freedom of expression is a fundamental value and freedom. And especially new Danes and especially those for Muslim reasons have been read and written that freedom of expression is a sacred and inviolable value. They must be surprised today, because freedom of expression obviously does not apply to all statements; freedom of expression obviously does not apply to all people and groups. It must therefore be understood that freedom of expression is not a universal human right at all. Freedom of expression is the majority, and we use it in the majority as we please, and we bend it as we like, it is for us; it is not for everyone; it is especially not for the saints. That's how this bill gets read. That is how it is understood, not only among Muslims, but also in the ecclesiastical environments affected by legislation. And what they have to wonder about, apart from perhaps a general wonder that one wants to compromise on freedom of expression, is why it should hit them and not the others. What about the political preachers? A member of the Danish People's Party will continue to be able to sit on national radio and speak warmly for beating your children. It will not be criminalised to preach violence to a congregation of 750,000 voters. It is so many who voted for the Danish People's Party last time, and which one must assume the MP is a credible authority. However, an identical call that has been made to two or three people in confidence can now be punished because it is said by a religious authority. This bill is based on discrimination, and it is an attack on freedom of expression as a value, one of the key values on which our Danish democracy and our proud Danish history are based, but it is also an attack on freedom of expression as a means. For freedom of expression has proved to be an effective means of countering radicalisation. It was with freedom of expression as a means that we in Denmark met and fought the rhetoric and temptation of the great totalitarian ideologies of the 20th century, Nazism and Communism. The freedom of expression of the radicalised is a prerequisite for us to be able to bring their arguments into the light where we can counter them. This is what we do in Denmark. That's what's working. In the Radical Left, we are seriously looking at radicalisation. We believe that we must combat radicalisation with determination, efficiency and toughness. We must combat religious radicalisation, completely as we must combat political radicalisation at the extremes of Danish politics. However, we must combat radicalisation with measures that work, not with symbolic policy or discrimination, because that will only be counterproductive. It will only confirm the radicalised environments that they are isolated, that they are outside our Danish community, that they are not part of society. It will only serve to further galvanize the radicalised environments and their warped beliefs. This will only give them the motivation to work even harder to combat our society and our community. This bill is intended to counteract radicalisation, but it is our belief that it will be counterproductive. It is our belief that it is in conflict with key Danish values and with our Danish history. It hits wide and imprecise. It hits large parts of Denmark with a senseless suspicion. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123241	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123246	Thank you. A long time before I came to the Folketing, I think it was in 2010, I had an inner discussion with myself about the racism clause, whether I thought it made sense, it was there, or not. One of the people who convinced me that it makes sense that the racism clause is there was, in fact, the rapporteur on the platform now. One of the arguments that the rapporteur used at the time, and which I would like to ask myself, was that removing the racism clause would lead to a flux of hateful utterances, that people would experience hateful behavior. That is why it was important to keep the racism clause because it protected some people who would get caught if they removed it. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has changed his position on this since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123336	I have not, but there is a significant difference between the racism clause and this proposal, and that is that the racism clause does not discriminate. Everyone can be judged on the basis of the racism clause; not everyone can be judged on the basis of this selective criminalisation, which can therefore only affect believers. I am against this proposal because I think it is the wrong way to combat radicalisation, but I am also against it because it discriminates. I cannot understand why some authorities, for example. Marie Krarup can sit on Radio24syv and say on the air, where there are thousands of people sitting and listening, and hundreds of thousands who voted for her party: it is okay to give the children a rap on their fingers so that they can learn what is wrong and what is right, but a priest must not say it in a private context to a parent couple. I do not think that discrimination is so unspeakable that it is part of the problem, and it is such a thing that causes radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123456	Our colleagues, named Members, are, of course, titled, I would remind you of. Sir. Jacob Mark again.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123502	Is it discrimination that is the main reason why Radicals are not behind this proposal? That is my one question. The second is this with protection: in other words, does the rapporteur recognise that there have been examples of religious training which has been quite clear to the Danish population, where women, children and men have been taught stoning, paedophilia and violence as an okay means, and where it has been approved and it has perhaps helped to create a culture with an understanding that it was okay? Does the rapporteur accept this, and if so, what will the rapporteur do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123537	I recognise that, and I am glad that we know it, because then we will be aware of those environments. There is an extremely high level of activity around the Grimhøjmoskeen, and we constantly hear about the Aarhus model, which anti-radicalists not only in Denmark, but throughout the world, refer to as one of the very best examples of how to combat radicalisation. And we know that the Grimhøjmosque is a problem because, after all, we have freedom of expression and know what warped attitudes there are. That's why we can meet them and address them. If we ban them, attitudes do not disappear, but they are just being preached in some even more closed rooms and in an even more isolated environment. That is why, unfortunately, I believe that this law will help to strengthen parallel societies, to make them even more isolated, to get them even further away from the society that we otherwise want to make all people part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123628	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is the SF's rapporteur, who is Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028123646	As the debate has shown, the SF can support this proposal, and we can do so for a number of reasons, as I will deal with in this speech. Personally, I have always been very little in authority myself, but I must also acknowledge that authorities have a special role in society. They have the opportunity to influence, they have the ability to suppress, they have the ability to convince, decide and decide. Authorities have enormous power, which is why we in Denmark have always taken good care of minorities, and we must continue to do so in the future. As far as I am concerned, this is at the heart of this proposal. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that special authorities do not use their position to suppress weak figures, that they do not use it to spread hatred in Denmark, to undermine democracy and to undermine Denmark, and certainly not in a way that makes other people believe that it should be a learning, that paedophilia is okay, that it should be a learning to hate, that it should be a learning, that women and men are not equal, that it should be a learning with stoning. We don't think that's okay, and we think that's what we're gonna do with this proposal. Because with this proposal we are making it clear that in future it must be punishable as part of religious training, where there is preaching, explicitly to approve terror, killing, multi-wifery, violence, incest, detention, coercion, rape and paedophilia. A great deal has been asked about the specific examples. It is actually a fairly well-worked bill that has been amended, and it also says that religious training means that training is religiously motivated, has a preaching element, and that there is an authority leap between the teacher and the listener. In short, this means that it is a religious teacher who must not use his authority to convince or maintain in religious contexts neither women nor children that stoning, violence, paedophilia and terror, for example. It's okay. That's what we're going to try to achieve with this proposal. I think it's a good thing it's going to be punishable. Religious preachers, like other teachers, primary and secondary school teachers, can have an enormous impact on people, and I find it intolerable to know that it is taking place in Denmark. And it does, because we've seen it on television. It is not about making policy on the basis of a single case, we know that it is taking place. All the parties have also recognised that it takes place that there are authorities teaching children and women and men that paedophilia, killing, rape, stoning, gender inequality is okay. This proposal restricts freedom of expression, but does it mean that we must not say anything at all? No, because criminalization only includes statements made as part of religious training of authority and has a preaching element. That means, for example, that: ordinary religious instruction or the fact that a teacher reads from some old writings, where crazy things can also be said, is quite legal. This also means that in any context other than a training situation with a preaching element, you can say exactly what you want and write exactly what you want. That is also why the comments make it clear that this bill complies with the Constitution and that it complies with international obligations. This only affects some hateful people who use their gunpowder and their time to train some weak and vulnerable people that illegalities and criminal offences should be okay in a country like Denmark. Freedom of expression is an important matter for the SF. It has always been, and I am glad that some of the more critical parties recognise that. That's also why we're looking at this as part of a larger package. We have strengthened the supervision of free schools, we have said that cultural associations must not receive subsidies if they are based on an anti-democratic basis, but on the other hand we have also got through a freedom of expression commission, which has been voted down several times, a freedom of expression commission, which has also been set up in Norway, where freedom of expression can be strengthened in Denmark for both private and public employees. It must review paragraphs and it must make recommendations on how we can strengthen freedom of expression. It was also part of this package, and it shows the nuance that has been important to us. I am not saying that it has not been difficult to come to this resolution because, of course, there are some reflections, but we mean precisely by the nuance that we must protect some people, just as we do with the racism clause. We also believe that we must constantly look at how we can strengthen freedom of expression. Overall, therefore, we are satisfied with this proposal because we think there is a balance. Moreover, we also think that it is quite reasonable that the proposal should be monitored on a regular basis, that some debates should be held on whether this proposal is appropriate and that the proposal should be revised by 2021 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124155	There are three who have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124159	Does the rapporteur not think that it is strange that this bill means that the positions of a priest from the pulpit will be included in this bill, but if the next day, on Mondays, the priest has a presentation in, for example, Jyllands-Posten with exactly the same content, exactly the same words, so will it not be covered by the bill, because in that case it will be a general public debate? This is an attempt to define freedom of expression, which makes no sense at all. My question is: how does the Socialist People's Party feel about this, when you see at the same time that good forces, such as the Institute of Human Rights, the Council of Attorneys, the Think Tank Justitia, go out and point out the huge demarcation problems that are in this bill. Is there not something on the part of the rapporteur that makes the rapporteur feel that this is quite wrong, that we are undermining fundamental rights, even in a way that will have no effect because we end up leading crazy attitudes further into darkness than they are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124330	What has been done, after all, is that the hearings have been read, including by the Ministry, and then, in fact, they have been addressed afterwards. This can also be seen in the consultation note. In fact, where boundaries have been criticised, attempts have been made to make further demarcations, which is why I also believe that this has become a very good legislative proposal. Compared to this with a priest standing on a pulpit and a debate post, that's exactly what's the difference, that's what's at the heart of this. We will not accept that there are religious authorities in a training situation where there is a preaching element and use that situation and their authority to train people that stoning, paedophilia, violence is okay. That is the difference between that and having an attitude about what society should look like to teach, to train and to have an attitude. For me, there is a clear distinction between teaching and training and having an attitude towards a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124425	Sir. Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124427	What the rapporteur has just said shows that this draft law does not make any sense on many points. So a priest who stands on Sundays in the church and speaks to seven people who sit in the empty church hall is more violent, it is more significant than having a large post, perhaps a chronicle in Jutland-Posten with associated drawing? Does it not seem a little strange to put it up in this way by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124458	For me, the crucial difference in training is that there is an authority and teaches people that their world view should be this way. It is a bit like I do with professors or teachers; they should not teach students that stoning and paedophilia are okay, but they must have exactly what opinions they want. For me, there is actually a clear difference. It may well be that it is not on the part of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but for me there is actually a clear difference between using your authority to teach other people who are under you in authority so that they look up to you and then having a broad view of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124536	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124538	I'm a little curious about this with authorities and religious authorities. Because if I understand sir... Jacob Mark correctly, religious authorities pose a potential threat to public order and our social values. Am I supposed to understand this because it's only the ones you want to hit with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124603	The religious authorities who use their authority to teach and train people who are weaker than themselves, for example, in: Stoning, incest, paedophilia, terror, I certainly think is a threat to public order • yes. But that doesn't mean I think all religious authorities are like that. I know that the vast majority of religious authorities help to create a better Denmark every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124634	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124635	Nevertheless, these are the ones we have heard from innumerable consultation responses. For it may well be that the rapporteur believes that they are not the ones he intends to hit, but they feel so affected and suspicious. So, the religious Denmark not only the Muslims in Denmark, but also Christians in Denmark feel that this is a general suspicion of religious authorities. I also find it very difficult to understand, and here Mr. Jacob Mark may help me to understand why a religious authority is more dangerous than a political authority. I mean, in fact, it is not very many people in Denmark who seek religious authority. After all, most of us pick up our standards elsewhere. Can it not be as problematic if you think it's okay to beat your wife, but it's not the priest who told you, but your friend or your party chairman?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124721	Well, I think it's problematic, no matter who says that stoning and paedophilia and incest and terror are okay. I'll tell you what. Well, I think that's a huge problem. In relation to the consultation answers and the fact that the religious associations and Denmark feel suspicious, I have also read it. And there I think the solution to that is just to listen to the politicians who adopt it. So, all politicians today, red, blue or green, who adopt this, say that this is not targeted at the broad religious Denmark. It is targeted the few who use their authority to spread hatred and teach children, women and men that stoning, paedophilia and terror are okay. These are the ones we are putting forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124805	Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124808	Thank you. The rapporteur said in his speech that, after this law is passed, it is not the case that we should not say anything at all, and I am, of course, very happy about that, so that when this law is adopted it is still the case that we have to say something. I would like to ask: what is the rapporteur's expectation of the very concrete effect of this? So, what exactly is it going to mean to pass this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124838	In fact, I think that is a really exciting question. 'Cause I don't think this is gonna solve everything. I don't believe that. I think it will have the effect of some of the authorities, for example. is in religious environments, will have weakened their power, and that their words in the environment will be weakened and thus there will be fewer who will be influenced. I still believe that there will be the problem that some of it will move somewhere else and still take place. But we must also accept there that we will never get rid of it. And I guess, like Mr. Simpson... Rune Lund said that this is also about prevention. But I actually think that this will help weaken some of the most extreme forces because you take some of their platform from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124916	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124918	Thank you for recognizing that the effect is questionable. And with that realization, I think it is even more crazy that you pay for a dubious effect with part of our freedom of expression. I would ask the rapporteur to address the second restriction on freedom of expression, namely the racism clause. Does the rapporteur think that the criminalisation of racist statements has made Denmark today a country with less racism?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028124947	Yes, and there I am very much in line with Mrs Zenia Stampe and the contributions from her that I read at the time. Because I believe that the racism paragraph helps to protect against racist expressions and hateful utterances. I think this helps to protect a group in Denmark that is already having a difficult time. And that's why we're here. There are some people who are clearly influenced by authorities in believing that stoning, paedophilia and that there is no gender equality are okay. These are the ones we're trying to protect with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125020	There is a brief comment on Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125023	Thank you for that and thank you for your contribution. I am curious when the rapporteur says that it is training that is the jumping point for the rapporteur's party, because I see the normative function we have in the public discourse as a much larger training platform than I see the small congregation with seven people, whether it is Muslim or Christian or Catholic, or whatever it is. That is why I am actually interested to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether you do not have to take note of how uncertain the demarcation is, how many of the consultation parties are really concerned. Is not the rapporteur himself interested in having it unveiled, given that there are so many other platforms that directly have a larger normative function in relation to training?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125126	In relation to the last part, yes, we read the consultation answers, we also take note of them, and the draft law has also been amended in the light of those consultation responses. Some of the people who have been involved in writing the hearing answers that are worried are also some of the people we have worked with to get this freedom of expression commission through, which is also part of this package, where you just have to look at how, overall, you can strengthen freedom of expression. So I think that's good. In relation to that part about training and to the somewhat more high-flying discussion of overall discourse and training, I think it will be a debate that takes a little more time than just today, because of course one learns a little of the big assembly debates, which I am aware of, and that is also being influenced by, but in relation to training, as is meant in this proposal, we are talking about concrete teaching, where an authority, and it is quite clear, uses its authority to teach some people and convince some people and get them to believe in something particular. That is what education is, and it is actually quite clearly described both in the draft law and in the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125224	Sir. Roger Matthisen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125226	I fully agree, but I am curious about more punishment on a questionable basis or more opportunities for dialogue, because I really believe that the normative discourse we have in society is much more marked by our standards and our opinions, perhaps or on an equal footing, in relation to these training circles. But what are the other initiatives of the rapporteur's party in relation to anti-radicalism, in addition to this dubious legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125304	Then I'll answer it because I have so little time. That is, for example, the case. The Aarhus model, which is known throughout the world to prevent radicalisation, has been developed by a SF chairman named Thomas Medom. We have been working on this and we would like to bring it into the Folketing as well. We thought this SF project should be spread to the whole of Denmark. In addition, we believe that whistleblower schemes should be spread or at least make it easier for people in these environments to get out of the environment by getting protection if they gossip about what is happening, so give them some protection to get out. And the last part is precisely these exit strategies, provide shelters, provide help, provide psychological help if they get out of this radicalization.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125346	No one else has asked for short comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125355	Thank you. We must take great care of Danish society. We must safeguard our values and the society we have known for many generations, where we resolve things with good courage and decentness as a coherent people without advocating multi-wifery and rape and cheap terror in various premises. When it is today that the Ministry of Justice considers that statements containing approval of, for example, Stoning of women, corporal punishment of children, etc., is not a criminal offence, so we must do something. When we see what we saw in the broadcast... the mosques behind the veil... we're gonna have to do something. I do not think anyone is in any doubt as to why we are dealing with this matter today. Is it because we generally have a problem in Denmark with Danish church priests, with Baptists, with Jews? Is that it? No, it's not, by no means. That is because there is a very small group of extreme imams and why should we legislate for them? We have to, because it's important and because they have a place in this society. We may well have the approach that we should then just put up with it in the sacred name of tolerance. But frankly, if we want a society in which tolerance, freedom and security thrive, we also sometimes just have to put our heels in front of types like these preachers, as some of the imams are. I will not accept that an integration that has failed for many years will be allowed to continue. This is about protecting young people from the madness they meet with some Witnesses in certain mosques. How are we ever going to get a Denmark that improves itself and makes integration meaningful if we accept the entry of dark forces and dark forces into the heads of our young people and the social control that then also follows, which can therefore be a result and we see that in certain areas? So we're gonna solve everything with this thing? No, we don't. We are taking a step along the way, we are taking many steps along the way, we are doing many things now and in the negotiations that have been going on. We need to take that step by step. Is this also a proposal that presents challenges and some uncertainties and doubts? Yes, of course it is. Moreover, legislation can often be that way. But what matters most to us Conservatives is that we have a Denmark in which we protect children, young people, women, yes, democracy at all and take a stand with these evil forces. So we do not think that this, when you do the bottom line, is a question of attacking freedom of expression and then suddenly coming under great pressure. No, for us, this is about us having to do what we can to take action against people who have so warped a thinking that some of them here have, and that as religious teachers and ministers they try to carry it on to a congregation. Surely we cannot stand by and look at that as a society, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125744	Sir. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125749	What is so dangerous in this debate is that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, like many others today, has argued: We are very much in favour of freedom of expression but. And then comes all the practical arguments for why it should not apply anyway. Here it is some people who have some crazy opinions... we agree on that... which it shouldn't apply to. So we are creating a freedom of expression that applies to some but does not apply to some others. And for those to whom it should not apply, it applies anyway, because if you write a speech in a newspaper, it is not covered by the legislation, but if you have exactly the same attitude and state exactly the same words in the church the day before, then it is covered by the legislation. So we see an undermining of freedom of expression. We see unclear legislation. We see an undermining of fundamental freedoms. I actually thought it was something that the bourgeois politician thought was worth protecting. But I just have to say that one bill after another is being tabled here in the Folketing, which undermines fundamental rights because you always have some problem that you think you can solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125902	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028125904	I am in favour of good conduct and decency and a society in which we have space and space and where freedom of expression can thrive. But I don't think sir... Rune Lund is aware of the intensity of the statements made by religious ministers in certain groups. Therefore, there is a difference between me and the debate on this subject all the time, whether they write a post in a newspaper, or in the sacred room or by the holy minister, that is, by the mouthpiece of God, for that is what they are seen as by some, especially as the mouthpiece of God, who tells you what to go and do. I think that is very serious. That is why we need to take action against it. We may have some kind of study circuit discussion about freedom of expression, but I just think it's neglecting the seriousness of this. I understand some of that, sir. Rune Lund says it's not that, but I just think this is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130010	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130013	There are two things. I find it very difficult to see that it should be less dangerous for an imam who has crazy attitudes to put them up in Jutland-Posten with a drawing, if that should ever happen, rather than in a smaller assembly where there are not very many people. It would be a huge blue stamp of such attitudes if they could be printed in a large national newspaper. That's one thing. The second thing is that we see legislative proposals being dealt with over and over again in this Parliament, where we are constantly arguing that right here we can cut a little bit on freedom of expression, right here we can cut a little on freedom of assembly. When's enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130101	This is, of course, the case as we approach the individual proposal. We can also come up with a lot of thoughtful situations, but we have to relate to the real world, and the real world is that we have seen that there are some types of people who want to control other people's lives in a way where they encourage them to do monstrous things. I don't think sir. Rune Lund may think that an imam may refer to the fact that when a girl has her first menstruation, you can marry her and then in a text you have to be able to stand and say that yes, you should go home and do that to 10-year-old children. Well, there's a limit in my world, there's just one.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130143	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130147	The Chairman of the Conservative People's Party made it very clear that it is really not about anyone other than the Muslims. If it had been possible, would it really have been preferable if this law were only about the Muslim religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130208	No, because I do not think we should have a society in which we identify certain areas in this way. I just think, when I analyze myself, that I am liberatingly honest and say that I do not see that we have the problem with church priests that I mentioned, or Baptists or Jews. Those who really encourage these atrocities are a few extreme imams. That doesn't mean I mean that all imams preach creepy. Of course they don't. We're talking about a small group. We have a major debate on a bill that will hit a very small group. I just think it's important to hit them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130251	Now it's not just criminalising the most extreme things, or it might be dangerous to say, to beat children I think is also a very, very extreme thing. However, it is a fact that there are also parts of the public church that are very strongly attached to the Danish People's Party; previously they were associated with the Conservative People's Party, namely the Tidsstiv, where there are certain clergymen who are strong supporters of beating children. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, if he thinks it is something to punish in future when a priest to his congregation speaks to beat children to teach them what is right and what is wrong. Is this the kind of thing that, according to the rapporteur, should be punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130337	That will be the consequence of the bill here. If you stand in the church and tell the congregation that now it is important that they listen to God's Word from a text and that it means that they should go home and beat their children, well then it is also a criminal act. Of course it is. I think it might be a few rather thoughtful examples that we get into here when it comes to a pulpit in the public church. I also believe that Mrs Zenia Stampe agrees with me that what we are trying to do about here is that a few people are calling on in the name of God to do some absolutely monstrous things, and I think that is unacceptable. That's what we're gonna have to fight down.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130415	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130429	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. As you know, the draft law, which aims to address religious ministers who seek to undermine Danish laws and values and which supports parallel legal perceptions, is based on a broad political agreement concluded in May of this year. Religious ministers and others who do religious training have a special position in influencing their congregation and other followers. It is therefore particularly problematic if these very people oppose and undermine laws and values. I am therefore pleased that there is support for action against these people. Radical religious ministers should not be free to undermine and combat the legislation adopted democratically in Denmark on the grounds of freedom of expression. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am at your disposal to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130529	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130533	Thank you for your very brief ministerial speech. There are, of course, a whole series of things that have not been clarified in this draft law and to which we must ask a great deal of clarification. But one of the things I would like to ask the Minister, because I think it is very central, is whether this bill means that no statement to change the legal situation democratically can be punished when it is emphasised in the context of the statement that the actions that are wanted to be decriminalised must not be carried out before a possible amendment of the law so that we are in favour of something that is an insane attitude, but that we do not believe that we should do so until the law has been amended. If you have that position, whatever it may be about of the positions mentioned in the bill, will it be covered by the bill, or will it not be covered by the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130635	Thus, if a religious preacher or authority person in this regard in teaching or training conditions approves, for example. should violate children or commit violent acts, then it will be included. However, democratic changes in legislation are not covered here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130703	That is why I am asking the question. If the position that is being approved is included in the legislative proposal, but the position is based on the fact that it must only be possible to do so after the legislation has been democratically amended, can one be punished? Is it covered by this bill, or is it not covered by the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130732	That comes, for example. It is a question of whether there are obvious reasons for circumvention, that is to say whether what you are doing is trying to talk your way out of a situation in which people are actually getting to approve it anyway. The obvious, immediate answer will be: in other words, we stand and argue for a change in the legal situation carried out democratically, so it is not. But if we really approve and change our attitude to action, and that is what is behind it, then the situation is different.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130801	The next question is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130805	I would like to ask a few questions about religious preaching. What does that really mean? For there are more who have spoken about it, and that is also one of the things that several of the consultation answers are circling because it is not so clearly defined. So just one example: Is the grief of souls included in religious preaching? So, a concrete example of how to get a specific answer is: if you are a priest and you are sitting with a parishioner who is beaten by your husband, and the man also beats the children, and the priest then says that it may well be that she has to live with it for a period of time, will such a thing be covered by these rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130851	I find it difficult to see the concrete example of telling a person that he must live with it. In other words, the fact is that if you approve of legislation that is specific to violence, to paedophilia, to bigami, to terror, as has been said, then it is a criminal offence, even in the closed room, when it comes to religious education, yes. However, I think that the example presented by Mrs Zenia Stampe bears a degree of ambiguity which makes a very specific answer from this point of view difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028130936	So let me try to be a little more specific. And it's definitely not because I have sympathy for this type of statement. I am just very interested in finding out when this applies and when it doesn't apply, because that's what I think is some of the problem with this proposal, because it's a reduction in freedom of expression that doesn't apply to everyone. For the examples that have been used have been from this documentary series, and there are among others. an imam who says that it may be okay to beat your children to find out what is right and what is wrong. Mrs Krarup has said the same thing, by the way. But what about the specific situation where a priest in a distress situation tells a father and a mother: It may be okay to beat his children every now and then to show them what is right and wrong? Is this something to be punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131022	Yes, it would certainly be included if it were religious training and the clear approval expressed by Mrs Zenia Stampe. Yes, that would be part of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131033	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131050	The debate is open and I should now like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group. But this is not seen to be in the Chamber, so I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131128	Thank you. Stalking is a huge violation of the human being it is going to suffer and the families that come under quite unreasonable pressure from the stalker, and that is obviously something that needs to be vigorously tackled. We simply need faster and harder action against the stalker, just as there is a need to improve aid for the stalking victim and the family. These are people who are harassed, persecuted and threatened. In addition, a number of relatives and friends are often left behind and can only look at another human being threatening and destroying everyday life, not just for the victim, but for the whole family, where things fall apart. Earlier this year we had a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs on this particular problem. I was very impressed by the hearing and I am sure that it also made a great impression on the other members of the committee, and it actually outlined very well the problems in this area. Many victims are probably left with a feeling that the authorities are working slowly in this type of case, or that you may not quite know what to do to deal with matters. Because if you end up in a situation as a stalking victim, and if you have to live with the fear and insecurity it can lead to, then even a few days can seem like a very long time. This is precisely why the focus must of course be on the speed of the help, so that we can get the victim and the family and the other relatives back to a safe everyday life, but also so that we can quickly get the stalker that needs to be taken care of. The proposal we are now considering is therefore a step in the right direction. By introducing an immediate restraining order, law enforcement will be able to protect the injured person and the family more quickly, since the restraining order will have the same legal effect as a traditional restraining order. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal, we have previously recommended that it was precisely this direction that should be taken. So there's full support for it. On the other hand, I do not have an answer with regard to a few of the sensible questions raised in a few of the hearings, and let me quote the answer from the Danish Stalking Center. There are some comments on the exceptions to the bill, where it appears, and the comments are then quoted: since an immediate restraining order may be notified even when a person with reasonable grounds is suspected of violating another, the Ministry of Justice considers that the possibility of giving an immediate restraining order should be limited to those situations in which the person to whom the restraining order is addressed has no reasonable interest in contacting the other person. In addition, the draft law describes that the provision, and it is then again, according to the Ministry of Justice, limits the intensity of the action and excludes the application of immediate restraining measures in the complex cases where, for reasons of inter alia: the risk of abuse and escalation of a conflict should be awaited. The scheme, for example, will: do not include cases arising from disagreements over the right of access to community children or neighbouring disputes. It is also clear from the consultation answer from the Dansk Stalking Center that an immediate restraining order will also be relevant in this type of case. I therefore share the scepticism and surprise that lies in the hearing answer about why precisely this type of case is excluded, and I hope that further clarification can then be given. I can also see that the same amazement can be found in the hearing answer from the Joan-Sisters Association, and I very much agree with the ideas raised, and I hope that the Minister will have the opportunity to address this in the end when we have finished the rapporteur's round. Alternatively, we in the Danish People's Party intend to have it drilled further during the committee's examination of the matter to find out why these restrictions have just been chosen. I also think that there is reason to focus on the overall measures that need to be taken to combat stalking, and here the police's handling of matters is absolutely crucial. I mentioned earlier the hearing by the Committee on Legal Affairs on stalking, where it was clear that the difference in the treatment of cases in the police circles is problematic. It is essential to be able to do better and faster in the future. I think we owe it to all parties. Another important point in the comments is that the Commissioner should be given 60 days in circles from the preaching of an immediate restraining order to assess the final need for a restraining order in the future. That is a very long time to go and wait, both if you are a stalking victim hoping for an extension, or for someone who is suspected of stalking someone else. I also hope that the Minister will bore out the justification for the 60 days when it is the Minister's turn. Despite the criticisms, there should be no doubt that we still think it is a very sensible proposal which we intend to support. But I must also note that there is still room for improvement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131641	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next to speak is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028131648	Thank you. Stalking is a very serious crime, which must therefore also be taken very seriously. The consequences for the victims are considerable, both psychologically, physically and economically, and the number of victims affected by stalking is increasing and increasing, not least as digital developments make it easier to stalk, and this calls for political action. The immediate restraining bill strengthens the police's ability to help the victim quickly by preventing the stalker from seeking out his victim. It is necessary to strengthen this tool and therefore there should be no doubt that we support the proposal that we are discussing in this Chamber today. But in the Social Democrats we believe that the fight against stalking must not stop here or stop there. We must ensure that the victim receives the necessary help and advice, we must ensure that the perpetrator is imprisoned so that the victim is calm and secure, and we must ensure that the perpetrator does not continue his criminal behaviour. Experience tells us that and this is also what several of the hearing answers indicate that a restraining order does not stop the stalker. A restraining order equals a raised index finger. If we compare it with the world of sport, it is similar to some sort of yellow card. But to commit stalking is not a yellow card, it is to a red card, and we must send a very clear signal, a signal that cannot be misunderstood, a signal that says that as a society we do not tolerate stalking. Because it is crime, and that is why it must be punished as crime. Although the immediate restraining order, as I said, is an important tool, it is a short-term solution, a patchy solution. We need to see longer than that. Two out of three stalkers have a personality disorder or a mental illness. Therefore, immediate restraining orders cannot stand alone. It must be combined with treatment, a course of treatment that ultimately both helps the stalker, but which also helps the victim and for that matter the rest of society. It should be borne in mind that the victim quite often has children, other family members, other relatives who are severely affected by this, and therefore the aim must be to stop the stalking altogether. It is important that our authorities are geared to handle the perpetrator so that we minimise the stalking as soon as possible and thus the genes for the victim and the victim's relatives, just as it is necessary that the victim experience being taken seriously and met by prepared authorities who already understand from the start of the stalking that this may end up being fatal. Stalking is an extremely intrusive and insulting form of crime, it never calms the victim, and so I must just repeat that it must be taken extremely seriously. I would like to conclude by saying that we support the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. We believe that this is an important tool, but it is also important to emphasise that this cannot stand alone, and that is why we need to have further discussions on further measures that can both stop the perpetrator in the past, which can help the victim and which can otherwise be used to intervene. However, I have to say that we in the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132031	Thank you. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132036	Thank you. I agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that there are several things we can do. SF tabled a motion for a resolution last October with a large number of measures, including: was also on the basis of discussions with the association, with the victims and with professionals in the environment. Although it could of course be a bit controversial, one of our proposals was that when you had been granted a restraining order for rough stalking, you could, by repeated violations of it, put on a GPS footband. For it is disabled for the victim to see over and over again that even if there is a restraining order, it is just broken without any significant consequences. In the resolution we tabled, there were other things, for example. easier to seize computers etc., i.e. some tools for the police. At that time, the Social Democrats voted against our proposal. Is there anything in the Minister for Justice's overall proposal where the Social Democrat rapporteur does not think the government goes far enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132145	The reason why we chose to hesitate in relation to the SF's proposal at the time was not, in fact, that we were opposed to it too, as was clear from our rapporteur's speech at that time, but that we had, of course, organised a process in which we also held a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and discussions had just been started with the Minister for Justice on the content of a new stalking package. That is what I am appealing to again: let us discuss how we can strengthen the initiatives, not least following the really strong hearing we had in the Committee on Legal Affairs last spring. And I can well imagine that some of the SF's proposals can be included in it. But I also have to say that what is most important here is that we stop the stalking. Then we will be able to adopt as many hard tools as possible, but if we stop the stalker as early as possible, it must, after all, be preferable for all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132241	Perhaps we were just a little impatient in the SF, because it was not the first time that we had tabled that resolution; we had done so earlier with the former legal rapporteur Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. When we retabled it, it also caused the Minister of Justice to set up a job, and we were glad that the Minister did. But I just think that when we are discussing this in the Chamber for the third time in two years and the rapporteur says that the most important thing is that we do something but have twice voted against our resolution, I would just like to ask: what more should we do if the measures proposed by the SF are not the right ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132327	Well, I am not sure that the proposals that the SF will impose on the Minister are exactly the right package. And that is precisely why we held a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs in spring to become more knowledge-based, so that we not only adopt something here in the Folketing that we think works, but actually lean on both what the organisations are proposing and what is a documented effect of from other countries, among other things. England and Australia, where they are somewhat further ahead than we are in Denmark. So we would very much like to discuss this further, but let us do it on the basis of knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132405	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to take the platform is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132413	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today has its origins in the current rules of the law, where the police have the opportunity to issue a restraining order, a ban on residence or an expulsion from the apartment as it is called. If there is an infringement of the person who is there and if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that he is violating the other person, then the police can issue such a restraining order. That is quite an excellent rule, and we are not changing it today either. The rule, as it is practiced today, requires that what we call the conditions of the restraining order is fulfilled, and therefore, in addition to a legal review, it also requires a review of whether the rules of the administrative law are fulfilled with regard to the consultation of the parties and much more. It may be a major case before the police issue such a restraining order today, and it can certainly be extremely burdensome, especially to those who suffer in the intervening period. Today it is the case that we are talking about a reasonable suspicion, and therefore also a certain co-decision procedure on the part of the police, in order to find out whether there are any grounds for suspecting and whether the rules have been complied with. That is what we are changing now, so that an immediate restraining order can be issued, and so there is no intention of having the same procedure behind an immediate restraining order; there must be only a reasonable reason to reduce the suspicion requirement from what it used to be, namely justified suspicion, and now for a reasonable reason. When I use the word in the past, it is actually wrong, because the other rules go on, because we get a supplement to the rules that says that there can be an immediate restraining order, and therefore immediate restraining order requires only a reasonable reason. This also means that the procedure is expected to be carried out by the officer, if not on the spot, then at least very, very quickly at the station, which leads to an immediate restraining order being issued. Then it is correct, as the Danish People's Party also points out, that you expect to find out at the police station whether this immediate restraining order should lead to a final restraining order, and you should find out within 60 days. Now it is always the case that we set deadlines here for others, but it is not certain that they will be respected, and the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also mentioned that it seems that it was also a long time. Yes, it is, but I think the most important thing is that the person who has to be protected is protected from day one, that is to say during the course of the proceedings, and that is precisely not the case today. A restraining order may be given for up to 5 years. A ban on residence for one year and an infringement leads to a fine or imprisonment for two years. I hope it will keep those who have been restrained from breaking it. One might then ask whether this is not a breach of legal certainty. Here we are introducing such a more or less summary treatment of perhaps a single police officer, at least a quick treatment which is expected to be over in a very short time with regard to the issue of the immediate restraining order. Yes, you may think so, and then you just have to say that it is at the risk that the person who suffers cannot find himself on the sidewalk on which the person cannot stand and shout or must not call the telephone number that you cannot call. But there are many other square meters and telephone numbers to address in Denmark, if you have the desires, so even if it can be a summary and maybe sometimes wrong processing about this immediate restraining order, the benefits are many, many times greater than the disadvantages. So it is with the greatest pleasure that I can say on behalf of the Left that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132823	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028132841	The Ministry of Justice has carried out a study which shows that more than 100.00 Danes per year are subjected to so-called stalking, i.e. systematic and persistent persecution or harassment by another person. And stalking is an unacceptable interference in individual freedom and the individual's right to decide on himself and his or her own life, and it limits one's ability to participate freely in society. The bill provides for the possibility of giving an interim notice of restraining order, which is called an immediate restraining order, to temporarily protect the injured person and, where appropriate, members of the injured person's household until a final decision on restraining order or prohibition of residence can be taken by the police. The suspension order shall then cover the same types of prohibition and shall have the same legal effect as a restraining order issued in accordance with the provisions in force. In particular, the proposal here implies a relaxation of the general requirement of suspicion by granting a restraining order, with a view to ensuring rapid protection of the injured party. It is then suggested that a restraining order may be given if a person on reasonable grounds is suspected of violating another person and has no reasonable interest in contacting the injured person. There have been a number of consultation responses and many of them are positive, for example. it from Help Victims of Violence and that from the Danish Stalking Center. However, there are also a number of consultation responses where it is pointed out that there may be some legal security issues involved in introducing immediate restraining orders. It therefore makes sense for the Minister of Justice to propose that, within three years of the entry into force of the law, the regional public prosecutors should be asked for an opinion on the preliminary experience of handling complaints about immediate restraining orders and, in this context, to examine the extent to which immediate action is taken in the various police circles. When we talk about restricting legal certainty, it is therefore important to look at how it works and what it has had to do. To this extent, it is also in line with the consultation answer from the Institute for Human Rights, which writes: "It is on this basis the Institute's assessment that the draft itself does not give rise to concern about arbitrary or inproper interference with the right to respect for the privacy of the person being granted a restraining order. However, the implementation of the rules will have an impact on this assessment. However, in the opinion of the Foundation, it should be examined within a short period of time whether the objective of the processing of final decisions is being achieved in practice. ▪ The trial is then the 60 days, and it is also written that it should be evaluated within a shorter period of time whether the proposal has led to more rapid protection of victims of stalking. We agree with that objection. There is more and more to be done to combat stalking, and it is about helping the victims and the family members of the victims. It is also about the people who commit stalking and need help to stop and not do so. So there is a need for proper help and guidance. There is also a need for the victim to need a new identity when it is needed. The victim may also in some cases need help to move. We must see if we can improve the possibilities for this. There is also the question of conflict mediation between stalker and stalker, if that is something the victim is interested in. There are also some things we can look at to see if we can be better at, so that we can also combat stalking in this way. It is necessary to take further initiatives in relation to what is here, but that does not change the fact that this bill is a clear step forward. We can delve into some of the details of the committee procedure in connection with the committee procedure. We are very ready for that by Enhedslisten. But there is no doubt that this is a clear step forward in helping people who are being subjected to stalking. That is why the Enhedslisten is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133307	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133321	Stalking is a deeply offending intervention in another person's life and security. It is therefore a good thing that with this draft law we are guaranteeing the possibility of issuing an immediate restraining order in order to temporarily protect the injured person and, possibly, his family members until the Commissioner can take a final decision on the restraining order. As the Institute of Human Rights notes in its hearing answer, the state has a positive commitment to effective protection of individuals against other private individuals' violations of privacy, and that is exactly what this is all about. In relation to the legal certainty of the suspect, it is crucial for the Liberal Alliance that the bill does not change the competence to make decisions on the restraining order, either preliminary or final. It is therefore clear from the comments to the draft law that this competence lies with the Commissioner. We therefore believe that the legislative proposal strikes the right balance between the main intention, namely to protect more effectively the victims of stalking and the legal certainty of the suspect. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133434	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133446	I am once again a standin for our legal rapporteur, Carolina Magdalene Maier. We are in favour of L 19 as a starting point. It is a difficult balance of consideration in relation to wrongdoers. There must be much, much greater focus on the rights and needs of wrongdoers in the Danish penal system today. Likewise, of course, we need to protect those who get this restrained immediately. We note one thing, and that is a few of the consultation answers, among others. from the Institute for Human Rights, which would like to follow up on evaluation, as well as whether the processing time should be shorter, but as a starting point we are therefore in favour. The final point is that in the hearing answer we note concerns about custody cases, and we would like to see this further clarified in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133554	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133601	We are also very positive about the proposal... who is it that is so tall that I have to drive the desk down here? I suspect it's Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen, who keeps driving it up. Second Vice-President (Kristian Pihl Lorentzen) Rune Lund). Oh, it's sir. Rune Lund. But you come from the extreme right to the extreme left. They're both moving high up in the cloud layers. The rest of us are so much more soiled. This is bullshit! In fact, this is a very serious issue, which may not have been taken seriously in the past either, but, on the other hand, there is broad support for taking it very seriously now, which is why we also support the proposal. It goes without saying that stalking is an acute condition in which the victim does not want to be in while he or she is waiting months for a police commissioner to decide whether there is a basis for a restraining order to be served. That is why we think it is very sensible that we should introduce this temporary restraining order immediately, because it enables us to react quickly while maintaining the actual restraining order that will follow and guarantee legal certainty. We think this is a good way to do it. Account is taken of the acute situation in which the stalking victim finds himself, while, of course, emphasis is also placed on the need for legal certainty for the person to whom the restraining order is addressed. We think that is a very sensible balance that we can support. What we will then also be a little interested in is how the police will help to ensure that the restraining order is complied with. We've heard stories... it's not to criticize the police... where some have thought that a restraining order might in fact not be worth so much when it came down to it. It will, of course, be crucial to follow whether we are not just getting the paragraphs in place, but that we also ensure effective compliance and sanctions both for the temporary but also for the final restraining order. But full support from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the platform is taken by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028133812	The Social Court estimates that 100,000 people are subjected to stalking every year. It is not only the victims of stalking who are affected that is, of course, above all those who are affected, but studies show that on average 21 people are affected per year. victim. So this is really, really a lot of people, this is going to hurt. More than one in four people exposed to stalking change behaviour and behavior significantly in their daily lives, so it can be directly disabling. That is why we also welcome this proposal. All good things come to those who are waiting, at least for us in this matter, because that is something we have been working on for a few years. Last October, we tabled a motion for a resolution, B-4, on better treatment and more efficient handling of stalking victims, and it was a re-submission of a resolution that we tabled in 2014. There were some things that were in our proposal • Now the Social Democrats' rapporteur is not right in the Chamber and I can say that the proposal was based on knowledge and facts and input from the organisations that work with it here everyday and know a lot about it, among other things. The Social Law Aid and the Danish Anti-Stalking Association. In the proposal we provided various tools, and some are, of course, aimed at the very, very serious cases in which the legal certainty of the victim has to be weighed. We said, among other things, that in very, very serious cases of repeated exceeding of the ban that has been imposed, we must be able, in serious cases, to put on an ankle bracelet, because unfortunately, in the most serious cases, we have repeated violations of the ban that has been imposed. It is, of course, in the most serious cases. It was also a wish of some of the organisations on the basis of the people they are dealing with that, in the rare cases, the possibility of changing identity could be given. That's quite a declaration of bankruptcy. Fortunately, it is rare that things go so wrong, but if there are some who want to, then we should do it too. That was one of our proposals. Then, in some cases, the duration of the proceedings is totally absurd. The police, we often talk about that, especially in this circle, have so many tasks. However, in many cases there is a time period of more than three months. And every single day that goes in these gross cases of stalking can be completely debilitating and destructive to the human being it is suffering. It is, of course, unreasonable and therefore one of our proposals was that there should be a consequence. We have other areas where it is simply not possible to exceed the time limit laid down, i.e. the maximum limit. The last thing I would like to mention, because that is what we are also discussing today, is the immediate restraining order, which was also a central proposal. I am very pleased that when we discussed this in the Chamber last autumn, the Minister said that we did not have to vote on the SF's proposal, because he was going to come forward with something on behalf of the government. So has he. And we also keep watching until our gross list is reasonably fulfilled. We'll keep bringing this up. We believe that this has been a very neglected problem until recently, and that is why we must ensure the best opportunities for the victims, and of course also for the most important thing to try to prevent it from happening. And as some have mentioned from up here, we know that many need treatment, that is, many of those who stalk others need treatment. They are treatment-intensive and we simply need to identify what kind of diagnoses or problems they suffer from or have. For the most important thing in the world must of course be that we ensure that there are not still 100,000 people who are subjected to stalking every single year. So I would like to thank the Minister. I think the Minister has taken this area very seriously. I am also pleased that we are voting on some of these things, because unlike the Socialist rapporteur, I do not really think we are lacking so much knowledge. Well, we have a lot of knowledge and facts and statistics in this area. We need to weigh up the principles of legal certainty and security for the victim to take some of these steps. So SF will of course vote in favour because it is also our own proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134317	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134324	Thank you. It will be difficult as the last speaker on this point to say something that has not been stated. Nor will I try to try to do anything other than to say that stalking is serious; we must try to think the opposite about it and that the proposal here on the possibility of the so-called immediate restraining order makes very good sense. This makes a great deal of sense for the security of our citizens, for the security of our families, and we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134353	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134402	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. Stalking, persecution and harassment are serious attacks on the freedom of individuals and the right to determine their own lives and free participation in society. No one should tolerate being harassed, persecuted or living in fear of being offended. Therefore, it is essential that the people who are subjected to stalking experience that they are taken seriously and that they receive help quickly. The proposed immediate restraining order is one of seven elements of reinforced action against, inter alia: stalking, which I launched in March in collaboration with the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality. In addition to the restraining order, the action includes: measures to strengthen the police handling of cases and initiatives to improve assistance and advice for stalking people, as well as to strengthen the knowledge of professionals and the public about the phenomenon. The aim of the proposed action is to provide rapid protection for the injured. This must be achieved by enabling the Commissioner to give a preliminary restraining order in the future, called an immediate restraining order, in the case of a restraining order and a ban on residence. The suspension shall cover the same types of prohibition and shall have the same legal effect as a restraining order issued in accordance with the applicable provisions of the restraining order. The protection shall remain valid until a final decision is taken on whether to grant a restraining order, a ban on residence or, where appropriate, both. While the injured person is protected by the immediate restraining order, the police may, inter alia: conduct further investigations into the case. In order to ensure that a rapid decision on a restraining order can be taken, it is proposed that the restraining order may be given on the basis of a lower suspicion requirement than that normally applicable to the notification of a restraining order. In accordance with the rules in force, it is, in principle, a requirement for a restraining order that there is a reasonable suspicion that a person has violated another's peace or committed a criminal offence comparable to such a violation. However, an immediate restraining order may already be issued following the proposal if a person is suspected of violating the other on reasonable grounds. This represents a substantial reduction in the demand for the strength of suspicion and thus a relaxation of the demands made in order to prove the violations of peace. It is also proposed that it should be a condition for notifying an immediate restraining order that it does not have a reasonable interest in contacting the other person. The condition precludes the application of immediate measures in the complex cases in which a detailed examination of, inter alia: the risk of abuse should wait. For example, the scheme will: could not be used in cases arising from a deep disagreement or disagreement over the right of access to common children or the like. To that extent, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen touched. In addition, it is a requirement that the final decision of the Commissioner on the restraining order or the prohibition of residence be taken as far as possible within 60 days of the decision on the immediate restraining order being served. Those conditions should and here is the answer so that the right balance can be struck between the effective protection of stalking victims and the legal certainty of those to whom the restraining order is directed. I have also noted with satisfaction that several of the consultation parties agree that the draft law represents the right balance in terms of legal certainty. This is therefore an overall strengthening of the protection of victims of stalking. A restraining order will be available more quickly without necessarily waiting for the police to complete their investigation. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for a good debate. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available to answer any questions raised by the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134747	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134804	The debate is open and I give the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134821	Thank you, sir. President. The President's rather searching look is an indication that I am here on behalf of the Socialist Legal Rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen. The draft law we are discussing here is based on the report by the Court of Justice on the reform of civil procedure. It deals with the evidence provided by experts in the form, inter alia, of: sights and estimates, which are often given a high level of evidence. The bill is intended to extend the scope of legal proceedings in order to use experts as part of the evidence. The draft law provides an increased opportunity to use assessors with the same professional background, so that there can be more professional assessments. It is also proposed to introduce extended possibilities for the production of expert evidence in civil proceedings and to provide for enhanced access for the parties to a civil case to produce expert statements unilaterally obtained by each party prior to the initiation of the proceedings, as developed in the case law. In such cases, the counterparty must be able to submit a unilateral counterclaim, even if it has been possible to obtain it only after the action has been brought. It is then proposed that the parties to a civil proceedings may decide, in agreement and with the court's permission, that, in the course of the course of the proceedings, expert statements may be submitted which each party obtains after the proceedings, either in addition to, or in place of, sight and discretion. There are some very clear comments in the hearings to which the Ministry is also responding, which is why I have to say that we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028134956	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135008	The draft law here comes as a result of the report by the Court of Justice on civil procedure and intends to increase the scope for the use of surveyors and assessors. As a consequence of the proposal, the court may, in the future, appoint two or more viewers and assessors, even if they have the same thesis or subjects. The Board of Appeal argues that, in a matter of case, there can be more perceptions or schools, if you like, and therefore it may be a natural step to take if you have to shed as much light on a case as possible. In addition, the proposal argues for extending the possibility of new sights and estimates. Today, as a disgruntled party, one would normally only have the opportunity to ask critical questions about the view and estimates one might disagree with. However, there must be a reasonable reason for this, so that it is not just a matter of dragging the process over. It can, for example, be done. If there are several directions in a subject which one would have elucidated. In addition, the proposal provides for several possibilities for the presentation of expert statements and expert counter-declarations. All in all, we think this seems quite sensible, and that is why we also expect to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135119	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to take the platform is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135127	Thank you. I can reveal that the Left can also support the proposal. If we take the matter forward in chronological order, it starts with a subpoena, and here we base the bill on the fact that it must now be possible, together with the application, to attach a pre-observed technical statement to support why the claim in question has just been made. There is basically nothing new about this because it has been the case law of the last 10 years after the Supreme Court ruled on it. But at least now we get it legally, so thank you for that. Then that side of the matter has been settled. When the matter is running its course, yes, it may be a matter of a technical nature in which an expert is to be appointed, and it has also worked for many years, but we have seen examples where experts can have different views on the technical rules, if I may say so, the technical assessments, the different schools, as some previous rapporteurs have said. Perhaps it has been unfortunate that it has been so difficult to get more judges on the matter. This is not the time for the proposal. Now you can have more judges registered, and then it must basically be up to the right to finally attribute to the estimates' statements the value of proof that is now desired. However, as has been mentioned by previous speakers, there has also been the possibility of a new vision and assessment. I have to say that that possibility already exists today in the Code of Procedure, but it is very difficult, I can say. The proposal here should make it easier. Are there not disadvantages to the proposal? Yes, it must also be that it is another nail for the coffin that makes it heavy to go to court. Sensors don't grind without water. There must of course be some to pay for the second expert and for the person who made the statement before the trial. Who's going to pay for the second estimater at least? That makes the loser of the case, so once again it becomes a little more risky to go to court, and a little more money comes high in terms of cost. But if we are going to vote against it, then it is an excellent proposal, which the Left can of course support. However, I look forward to the fact that one day we in the Committee on Legal Affairs may also be looking at the costs of civil matters. Unfortunately, they prevent many people who are right from going to court, and we have to look at that on another occasion. But the proposal here is quite excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135354	The rapporteur must remain on the platform. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135400	Now the rapporteur himself has touched on this after I had understood it, but I would still like to ask the question, namely that this draft law can, on the one hand, strengthen legal certainty and, on the other hand, that there is an economic inequality inherent in it: who can afford to pay for what judges? And it could actually develop even more so that, if you can afford it, you can call all the experts in the world. The rapporteur himself said it could be a concern. How could it be put to death that it is simply a question of the wallet, whether you can get your case tested fairly? We are also discussing the free process in a bi-remarkable way in these times. The rapporteur does not need to answer that right now. But could there be other ways in which we could deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135502	It is a very big question, namely why people are being prevented from going to court for economic reasons. A lot of people stay that way. What can we do to reduce the costs of the trial? Yes, we can say that the Folketing has adopted the possibility of what is called petty treatment for claims up to DKK 50,000. It can be carried out without lawyers etc. That is at least one way, and one could look at the experience of the system, including whether the border should be raised. In fact, I have not heard any indefatigations about the scheme. This could then be taken as an expression of the fact that you do not need lawyers for legal proceedings, but leave that discussion. In addition, however, the questioner is quite right. How do we take care of the costs? I have to say here that exactly in relation to this proposal, I must hope that the judge exercises his critical sense, in relation to whether a second expert should be allowed and thus an increase in the case for the losers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135558	There are no more questions, and we would like to thank the rapporteur and move forward. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135612	The Board of Appeal has issued a report. It has no. 1558, and it's from this year. There are a number of recommendations which have resulted in this draft law, which, as several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, deals with a number of proposals for amending the rules on surveys and estimates, so as to introduce extended possibilities for the use of two or more experts with the same professional background. And that is, of course, a flexibility and modernisation of the rules. There are a large number of consultation responses, and I would like to highlight two. One is from the Lawyers' Council, which agrees with the proposal to allow the court to decide to appoint two or more judges with the same professional background to answer the same questions, especially in cases where there may be several recognised theoretical or methodological approaches in the field concerned. Then the Consumer Council Think also of a very relevant consultation answer because they express concern that the possibility of involving more experts may be of the greatest interest to the party who can best afford to pay. And the Consumer Council Think predicts that there may be a need to look at whether a problem could arise. It is quite clear that if there is a bias here, where there is an inequality in legal certainty, because there are some who, with this bill, benefit from having a bigger purse, then of course that is something we have to look at, and something that must give rise to a later review of the rules. Of course, it should not be the case that, with the rules we introduce here, we give a disproportionate advantage to those people who have the greatest purse and the best money to be able to conduct a long or complicated trial. But, of course, we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135820	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028135833	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now strengthens the legal certainty of citizens and companies, and there is reason to be satisfied with that, because the current legislative arrangements are not entirely reasonable. In the comments to the bill, the Board of Appeal's concerns are rolled out. We can read as follows: In a number of cases, therefore, there is not only one correct answer. As a result, in spite of the care with which questions are formulated and the preparation of the expert, it may sometimes appear to be based on who has been appointed as an expert, how the survey and estimates are reported. In particular, in such cases, the parties may wish to have more assurance that they will be able to bring to the court the expert's point of view which best supports the position of the party concerned in the case. This is, of course, problematic, since it shows that not all relevant arguments in a case today are included in the proceedings, which is why there is a risk that the outcome may be unfair. It is pointed out that the problem can be addressed in several ways, on the one hand, by extending the possibilities of getting more assessors to judge the same subject, i.e.: by adjusting the applicable rules on survey and assessment, on the one hand, by enabling the parties to submit, in place of or in addition to survey and discretion, expert statements which they have themselves obtained or obtained in the course of the proceedings and which relate to the specific subject matter of evidence in the case in question. Our view in the Liberal Alliance is that there is a good balance in the proposal between the various options. However, a single monkey dabei must be heard: we support the proposal, but that does not mean that we are blind to the cost of the new legal safeguards. In some cases it will bring up costs, and we should, of course, have an eye on that, just as some consultation answers, incidentally, call on us to do. The Liberal Alliance supports the words L 20.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140039	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140048	I am once again a standin for our legal rapporteur, Carolina Magdalene Maier. We think it is very sympathetic and that there are interesting thoughts in the bill. However, we are a little concerned about the fact that the answers to the hearings place emphasis on at least some of them that there may be some socio-economic issues that are problematic, that some can afford to hire more experts as part of the evidence and that those who are then poorer in economic or social terms do not have this opportunity. So, as a starting point, we recognise the need to use more experts as part of the evidence, but we are concerned about the social distortion. So we will start by being negative and then look at it in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140147	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the trip has come to Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140155	Thank you. We can back the bill. However, we have also taken note of the concerns about the social side. We want to follow that. If the bill becomes law, we think it would be interesting to see whether it is precisely creating this distortion. For that will, of course, be a problem in our legal system, where, of course, it should not depend on whether you have money or not, so to speak. Otherwise, however, we can support the proposal, which is based on the report of the Court of Justice Board and therefore seems to be well worked out and well thought out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140240	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140250	On the one hand, this draft law strengthens legal certainty, namely by obtaining the opposite view in view and estimates than the second expert, who can assess the situation. However, in their response to the hearing, 3F expresses a concern to which I do not see the answer entirely, but we may be able to take it in committee. They write: In such cases the judge will therefore, where there are now two assessments, have to make an assessment of which of the represented specialities' views on the subject matter of the case are most correct, which must be assumed by the judge rarely will have the necessary professional competence. We therefore recommend that a specific position be taken in advance on how to remedy such a situation. I would like to say to the question whether a judge has a professional insight into a subject or not that it would be the same problem if you had one expert. If you have two who seem equally convincing, but with two opposing views, then the situation of the judge is certainly not going to be any easier. I also find the Consumer Council's response interesting. You point to what I also asked in my question, namely whether we should try to identify it a little, so that we ensure that expenditure does not go crazy, so that we do not have an economically weak party and an economically strong party, so that the relationship will be enormously unequal. So I would also like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is interested in us looking at the bill and trying to define it by saying that we must not be able to call new judges for all eternity, get new assessments, etc., and whether we can do so in such a way that the two sides of the case are treated equally, and so that each person is allowed to obtain his own assessment from his own expert, so that it is not possible that one person can catch up with three, four, ten different ones in order to support a position. Maybe it could be a way to narrow it down a little bit. Otherwise, one party with unsuspecting resources will in a way be able to back up its case by just having incredibly many more judges in the matter. SF votes in favour of the draft law, but hopes that the Minister and also the committee in committee will try to identify some of the problems here which are particularly concerned with the economics of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140536	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Søren Pape Poulsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140545	There is an excellent proposal here on the basis of the recommendations of the Board of Law. It strengthens legal certainty and allows for the possibility of calling for further surveys and estimates so that it can be presented. Of course, there are also challenges, as others here have said in the past, and we will have to discuss this further, but overall I think that is a sensible and a good change that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140612	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140619	Thank you for your comments. Prosecution is often used in legal proceedings and can be carried out in several ways. Experts are typically involved in the production of evidence by means of surveys and estimates, a high level of evidence is given, and it may therefore be of decisive importance to the parties to the proceedings as to the outcome of a survey and assessment. There may be several recognised academic approaches to an issue within a subject area. In such cases, there may be a risk that the outcome of an estimate business will depend on the school in the field of the designated assessor. The purpose of the draft law is therefore to provide the parties to a trial with wider possibilities of using two or more expert experts with the same professional background to assess the same issues. The purpose of the draft law is also to provide for the possibility of using expert evidence other than surveys and estimates in civil proceedings. Firstly, the draft law contains a number of proposals for adjusting the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure on vision and discretion. It is proposed that the court may decide from the outset to appoint two or more assessors with the same professional background to answer the same question. It is also proposed that the possibility of having a new view and estimate of the same question by another expert be extended. A new view and estimates may be relevant in cases where the parties have not been aware of the need to have several assessors answer the same questions prior to the announcement of the survey and estimates, e.g.: Because, as I said, there are more schools. Secondly, the draft law proposes the introduction of wider possibilities for presenting expert evidence other than surveys and estimates. The draft law therefore proposes that the parties to a civil action be allowed to submit expert statements which they have unilaterally obtained before the proceedings are brought. As is the case today, it will be up to the court in the particular case to assess the evidence value of such a declaration. Furthermore, in order to prevent a party from obtaining evidence by obtaining an expert opinion supporting the party's point of view immediately before an action is brought, it is proposed that the other party should be able to submit a counterclaim. This applies irrespective of the fact that a counterclaim can be obtained only after the action has been brought. Finally, the draft law provides for the possibility for the parties to decide, in agreement and with the court's permission, that, in the course of the course of the proceedings, expert statements should be made which each party obtains after the action has been brought. It can happen either in addition to or instead of vision and estimation. The provision allows the parties to a civil action to challenge the conclusions of an expert with their own expert submissions. For example, it will. could be relevant in cases where there are different schools within the subject areas concerned. However, that provision does not require the holding of surveys and estimates, but also allows the parties to use expert statements from each of their experts instead. With those comments, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140914	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028140917	Thank you. The Minister emphasized this new point by saying that there should be time to obtain a counter-declaration. I think most people would think that is perfectly reasonable. But there is only the possibility, if you also have the financial capacity to do so, that is what I referred to a little in my speech. If there is an opportunity to call as many experts, as many assessors as one party would like, then it may well tilt the balance of a case. Therefore, I just want to hear without tying the Minister up to it today whether it could be an opportunity to ensure that both parties could just bring their own experts or assessors to court, but that it is not an endless opportunity • if the Minister understands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141010	Yes, well, it is a question of whether an expert race is developing, which thus becomes an economic burden for the weaker party. What is proposed, of course, is that the parties to civil proceedings, in agreement and with the court's permission, should be able to make expert statements which each party obtains from its own experts after the trial has been instituted. Those statements may be presented either in addition to or in place of committed vision and discretion. After all, it is a prerequisite for obtaining statements from our own experts that the parties agree on this. This means that the parties must agree that the matter can bear the cost of using their own experts. It is also a condition that the court allows the parties to use their own experts. In fact, the draft law does not introduce unlimited general access for the parties to civil proceedings to make statements which the parties have each obtained from their own experts. It is quite essential to hold on to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141111	Thank you. It just sounds in some of the consultation answers from some of the organisations that have answered us about it as if they are still worried that it is not quite enough. But we can take it in the committee work. Nor do I believe that the Minister has any interest in the fact that there should be a built-in bias in something which should actually be an improvement in legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141134	I think it is very sensible to clarify those issues during the committee procedure, and of course we are at our disposal for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141140	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161028141154	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 8 November 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
