ParlaMint-DK_20161025130015	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution No. Β 15 (Proposal for a resolution on the prohibition of minarets) and motion for a resolution No. B 16 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the participation of EU citizens in documentation of legal residence in Denmark). Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 17 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the continued reception of quota refugees). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 18 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the European Convention on Human Rights). Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accommodation of refugees in other municipalities by municipalities. Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). I have received notification from the National Accountants that Peder Larsen, the Socialist People's Party, has been elected President, and Henrik Thorup, the Danish People's Party, has been elected Vice-President of the National Accountants. The elections shall take place for one year with effect from 1 October 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130133	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130208	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130231	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted [and will be sent to the Minister of Justice].
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130309	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130340	Thank you, President. Overall, I would say that the draft law contains some positive elements in the fight against tax evasion, but unfortunately it also contains less sensible measures and measures on equity loans. Let me take the positive first. Firstly, it is proposed to make the registration of ownership data a prerequisite for the registration of new capital companies. The aim is to ensure greater transparency and to counteract economic crime, including tax evasion. Today, ownership data must also be recorded, but this is not required to be done at the same time as the registration of new companies, which means that the obligation is not always respected. Since it must be assumed that, when a capital company is set up, the company's owners are known, registration should be possible immediately. It seems that social democracy would be a good and useful tool in the fight against tax evasion, which is why we can support this first element. Secondly, it is proposed that capital companies should be able to be sent for compulsory winding-up if the company has not registered any form of ownership. The deadline for ownership registration is set at 2 weeks and thus coincides with the general notification deadline in the Companies Act. Before any compulsory winding-up, the companies will have a period to register their owners and there is a possibility of resumption under a number of conditions. That element is quite reasonable and it is a good motivational factor for companies with such a sanction to get ownership records sorted out. We can support that too. Thirdly, it is the case that entrepreneurship companies are given the opportunity to obtain capital increases, and this can be done, on the one hand, as is now the case with cash deposits, and, on the other hand, as is the case with a fund increase, where the company transfers part of the company's free reserves to share capital. It would appear that this possibility is being opened up immediately. Fourthly, it is proposed that companies be allowed to grant equity loans legally to management and board members, and this can be done under certain conditions. The loan shall include, inter alia: could be held within the free reserves, provided under normal market conditions and approved by the general meeting of the company or by the management, under the authority of the general meeting. At the same time, the Financial Statements Act is amended to ensure that it is clear from the financial statements that the company has used free funds for loans. That sounds perfectly reasonable, but would not legalising own-fund loans give rise to any problems or loopholes at all? Here I would remind you that the primary objective behind the existing rules has been to protect the creditors of the company from the fact that the company's management and shareholders grant themselves loans which could then cause a loss to the company and hence its creditors. For example: The comments on the draft law state, and I quote: "If the company has not opted out of audit, an auditor will have to verify, in the context of the audit of the company's annual report, that the conditions for legally granting a loan have been complied with. But what happens if the company has actually opted out of audit? The Danish Business Authority's audit will then find it very difficult to detect illegalities, and as the comments directly show, the main focus of the control efforts of the Danish Business Authority will be on the largest loans. In other words, the smaller loans will not be in the spotlight. This part of the bill cannot be supported by the Social Democratic Party. Then there is the fifth element that is proposed, namely that certain companies in accounting classes C and D, i.e.: companies with a balance sheet total of more than 36 million; kr. each year, their financial statements shall not disclose any information on the equity and profit or loss of subsidiaries and associates included in the consolidated financial statements. Once again, it is a step in the wrong direction where transparency and hence information on equity and profit in subsidiaries will no longer be available in the same way as today. Finally, I would like to say that there are parts of the bill for which the Social Democrat Party is in favour, and other parts that we cannot support. From an overall assessment it would therefore be reasonable to ask the Minister for the bill to be divided into two parts, so that we can support that part about ownership registration, compulsory winding-up and entrepreneurship, but not to support that part about equity ownership loans and subsidiaries. The Social Democratic Party will, of course, await the Minister's position on this and look forward to thorough committee work. In conclusion, I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who unfortunately could not be in the Chamber today. They also support the division of the bill, but, in the light of the committee's work, the Radical Left will take a final position on it with equity loans and subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130826	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025130836	Thank you. After all, it is always a pleasure to be allowed to come after a rapporteur who tells us what the whole legislative proposal is about. So I really don't have to go into that much in depth. Relatively speaking, it is not a complicated legislative proposal, but it is a legislative proposal which contains a number of initiatives to support improved framework conditions for the establishment and operation of companies here in Denmark. In the Danish People's Party we are actually in favour of these initiatives being implemented to the extent that it is beneficial to Danish interests. As far as the registration of ownership data is concerned, that is something that is already in force in the law we introduced, as far as I remember last year. But what has been the challenge has been that in some places it has not been chosen to do so in connection with the creation of new companies. And that is where you want to make it clear that it is something that needs to be done up front on the day you set up your companies in Denmark. This will help to create transparency, and it will also help to promote transparency. The Minister's written submission also states that we have a greater opportunity to combat financial crime, including where tax evasion is involved. Then there are forced winding-up of capital companies if they avoid registering ownership. I almost think it goes without saying that if, as a company, one chooses deliberately not to fill in the register of ownership that is needed, then it is quite right that we should be able to sanction individual companies, including any compulsory winding-up. The last part I want to mention is about this with the improved terms for equity loans. We really agree with the government on the principle that equity loans can be beneficial, and I also think it is fairly clear from the observations made by the draft law that it must of course be done on the basis that, where one does so, one is also obliged to pay interest, etc., so that one does not have an overly favourable effect on it in relation to it. We fully agree that equity loans must be under control, and we really do think that they are already under control today. However, with this bill, it seems in our optics that it provides better conditions for companies in those companies where there is also financial freedom to get involved in equity loans. Against this background, we are in favour of the draft law. We will not finally say yes or no today. I think it is fair that we should also clarify the points raised by the Socialist rapporteur, particularly in relation to own-fund loans. And then we will have to look at the committee's work, whether there are any of the ministerial replies we receive and perhaps the subsequent consultation answers that give us reason to change the letter of the law. But that must come in connection with the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131127	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131137	If it were easy, like the second rapporteur, to describe what the draft law contains, it would be even easier to be the third rapporteur on the platform. Let me just outline some of the key points in the bill anyway. After all, we have made a broad agreement in the past that we should have a register of the real owners of our companies. It must be available. It makes good sense, both because it provides tax information, but also because it can be used to combat terrorism and money laundering and everything else. It makes very good sense that we have a register of ownership that gives a true picture. Then there are still some challenges with it. Therefore, it makes great sense that when you set up a company, you must of course ensure that you report the relevant ownership to the register of ownership. And where there are still some outstanding amounts, a lack of reporting to the register of owners is equated with, for example, the failure to report an annual financial statement. That is a sensible equality. Then it is the well-known rules that apply. It is not the case, for example, that a company will be forcibly dissolved overnight if information is not provided. We are told two times at intervals of four weeks in the same way that we know it from the accounts, so it makes very good sense for things to be treated in the same way and we ensure that the register we have agreed will also actually be full and comprehensive. The draft law also has provisions, as previous speakers have said, on how to define the equity of our new entrepreneurship companies. It makes very good sense to create that clarity so that there can also be a conversion of profits into equity in entrepreneurship companies. We're gonna make this bill perfectly clear. Then there is what the Socialists perhaps spent the most time on: the equity loans. I have to say that on the Left side we are very pleased with that part of the bill, because it is a Danish overimplementation of EU rules and we can see that a large number of our neighbouring countries do not have the same rules, and so things are going on quite sensibly. I think it's back from 1982 that some of these rules were made. Subsequently, other initiatives have been taken to ensure that there is no masked distribution by borrowing money from one's own company, thus avoiding paying tax. This has been corrected by taxation, but at the same time we have an explicit ban on a company being able to provide for equity loans. So this is double regulation. Of course, I also note in the hearings that some people believe that we should then abolish the taxation that is taking place. I would say that will be too lucrative, because then we will end up with the problem that we tried to deal with in the past. So I think it makes sense for us to ensure that business regulation is trimmed and we do not have national special requirements in areas where we do not have very good reasons for it. When it works in some of our neighbouring countries, we think it makes very good sense on the part of the Left, and that is why we support the bill. I have promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party and to say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131511	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131515	Thank you. I am a little curious about the rapporteur's position on loans to shareholders, because I do not think it is enough to say that in other countries they do so in a different way or that it is over-implementation. Will the rapporteur not tell me where the need for this lies and where the usefulness of changing the rules lies? So why does the Left think, regardless of what other countries do, that this is necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131545	We think it makes sense for companies to have this opportunity, instead of us at Christiansborg saying that we must do so per year. definition not. And if doing these things is an appropriate way for the company to make loans, we think the possibility should be there. That is basically why we are doing it. Whether or not companies will make use of it is up to the companies themselves to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131613	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131615	I didn't get much smarter about that, so why it was a good idea, apart from the companies wanting it. Does it not also impress the rapporteur with some of the consultation responses that have been received? We are at a time when the limit on when to have audits has been set quite high and, at least, when there is a SKAT that does not work in any way, there is not, as some of the consultations have pointed out, a large number of risks to it, among other things. That this could really end up in a terrible mess? And where's the big win? Where is the need to put the company's capital at risk in order to grant loans?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131657	I do not think that the description given by the SF rapporteur is quite accurate. It's not like there's gonna be a free blow. If you make a equity loan for yourself, then you will still be subject to tax liability according to the rules that apply there. There is also, as the draft law says, the fact that it has to be done out of robust equity capital, in other words that it has to be on saved profits, that it has to be done. We should not do this in a way that would weaken the position of the company vis-à-vis creditors. It is, in fact, the same thing that applies to some of the rules of the countries to which I have referred. On the left side, we basically think that we should have a business regulation that is as flexible and effective as possible. When there are special Danish requirements, we are always critical of them, and we think that this provision is unnecessary, and the change in it gives companies greater flexibility without compromising on, for example. the position of the creditors vis-à-vis the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131800	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131804	It is a simple question which may just be answered here, and otherwise I will have to take it later. It is a question of changing information requirements for subsidiaries. I do not immediately see any danger signal in the consultation answers, and I am actually fairly critical of this point as a starting point, but nobody really has anything to say about it, and it may be because it is just a help, so that it really improves our competitive environment. I had a fear that there might then be some numbers that did not come out as they should, or that there was something that could be hidden in some places. Can the rapporteur help me a little on the way: is there something that the rapporteur's party has considered in relation to looking at some problems in that part, in other words that it is not only good but that there might be some elements that should be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131847	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131849	I really think that there is almost an answer to the question put by the questioner himself, because it is usually well-informed when we look at the answers we receive. And it has, as Mr. René Gade says, of course, not something that has given rise to the concern that Mr. Apparently René Gade immediately has in the area. And I have to say that it was not a point that I was worried about at all when I first threw myself over the bill. So I would like to say once again that I believe this is a sensible relaxation, which is trying to remove some of the things that can cause trouble and trouble, without in any way creating a risk of relevant information being lost.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131933	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131935	I only saw here late yesterday that Oxfam IBIS had also been inside to make a general comment on the bill and also wanted to be heard forward. I will, of course, continue the dialogue with them. But is there any particular reason why they are not included in these hearings? Does the rapporteur know?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131950	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025131952	No, the consultation list and who it was sent out to, I have to admit, I haven't been sitting around studying. But it is fine that if someone feels that they have something on their mind, then they have the opportunity to contact us, and then we have to look at it during the committee work, i.e. if there is something we might have overlooked. I find that difficult to imagine, but we will have a good opportunity to discuss this during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132012	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132015	Thank you. It was the exchange of words with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that gives me the opportunity to ask a question as well. In fact, with regard to the shareholders' law, I expressed my scepticism that in my rapporteur's speech I felt that we should not now stand in this Chamber and talk away from each other. I think we can try to talk closer together and find an understanding of what exactly is up and down in the legislation that is being proposed here. What I'm just trying to make sure of is what's going on, and that's the primary purpose of the law... that the creditors don't suddenly have a long nose, because someone in a company has granted themselves loans, and then the company gets shut down, and then some people are wearing their hair in the mailbox. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: does the rapporteur of the Left believe that with this bill we are not going to see such cases where there are some who are going to bail out capital-owner loans, they have given themselves, and then there are some creditors who are left and, indeed, are not getting any money?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132110	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132112	It would probably be a very brave thing if I could now put out a guarantee from the speaking chair of the Folketing that there would never again be a company that cheated on the weight and ran with the money and left a bill with the creditors. But I just don't think it's this bill that's gonna do it. It is clear that if you do, tax liability must be imposed. There must be very good reason why you think it is attractive to make it. It can be said that there has basically been double regulation. So the rules, I think, go back, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, to 1982, and then there are, among other things. This tax restraint, which means that you can't, you can say, camouflage wages or dividends to yourself by calling it a loan, without it getting the same tax treatment as if you had pulled the money out as wages or dividends. I must therefore say that I do not share the immediate scepticism that it will now be a Klondyke. So, it is emphasized that it must be of the company's free resources; just as one cannot make share dividends if there is no equity to it, it is in the same way applicable here. And in this way it can be said that the rules of protection are some of those that are well known and that we use in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132230	Sir. Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132232	As I also said in my previous question, we should not talk ourselves apart. And I certainly haven't said it's a Klondyke that opens up here. I just think I have a natural skepticism. And although I did not ask for a guarantee, I am a little confirmed by what the rapporteur says from the platform, namely that there can be no guarantee that there can be no problems about this, so that some people want to use the rules incorrectly. That is why I am looking forward to the committee work with the Left, so that we can stick deeper into this so that we can have a guarantee that this capitalist loan will be landed in the most responsible way, so that we ensure that no one is going to stand and be cheated out in Danish society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132309	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132311	Well, that's the purpose of our total agreement. Well, we wouldn't be proposing this if we thought it would cause problems. We have proposed this because it is a Danish overimplementation, for which we see no reason, in an area where, as I have said, the original rules go back to 1982, and where other measures have been taken which are far more effective to prevent some from withdrawing money from companies without paying tax. Of course, creditor protection must be present. As I am aware of what is being done in our neighbouring countries, this is very much what we are leaning on, but we will have a good opportunity to dig deeper into it during the committee work and see if we cannot find each other, given that this is a sensible relaxation, without weakening confidence in companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132403	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132413	In the Enhedslisten, like the Socialist rapporteur, we have a little mixed up with this proposal. Because there are good and sensible elements in it, and then there are elements that we cannot support. And that, of course, puts us in a rather difficult situation. As a starting point, we think it is very positive that more stringent requirements for ownership registration are now being introduced. Various initiatives have been taken in this area, and this is also positive, but when the material shows that registration of owners is still too slow, it is a very good idea for us as politicians to react. Good registration of owners is, of course, one of the most important means of avoiding financial crime, money laundering and, above all, tax evasion. Then perhaps some will think that we in Denmark do not need to tighten the screw further, but it is, unfortunately, undeniable that Danish companies have also been used for various forms of money laundering. So this seems to us to be very sensible, and we can warmly support it. On the other hand, we, like the Socialist rapporteur, are sceptical about the legalization of equity loans. There are two reasons why this was done illegally at the time: on the one hand, the owners of the capital should not be able to pull money out of the company, so creditors were left with a long nose, and on the other hand, equity loans can also make possible a tax fin, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned. And that's why we've had these sensible rules in Denmark for many years. The argument for removing them is that other EU countries do not have these rules. And it is not a very good argument for changing Danish legislation that other countries have worse rules. In other words, it may be very good not to over-implement EU legislation if it is because it is inappropriate legislation. But if this is better legislation than that of the other countries, then it is foolish to change it. I also think that it should be noted that several of the consultation responses from both the Danish Business Administration and the CSF - Danish auditors - point out that this could be a major problem. Yes, even the Finance Council, which I rarely mention here from the platform as an ally in any question at all, warns against this. That is because it increases complexity and it potentially gives some loopholes for tax speculation. And if we even mentioned, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said, that SKAT is in a historic crisis and the money is, in this way, pouring out of the Treasury as a result of the problems that are in the SKAT, then perhaps we do not think that this is the right time to open up new tax fins, so that SKAT will have even greater problems in ensuring that the right tax is actually paid. Then we are not at all enthusiastic about this relaxation in relation to the disclosure requirement for equity capital and profit in subsidiaries. After all, it is no more than a year since we introduced some rules, and now we are going to go in and relax those rules. I would also like to say to the Minister that I think it is a problem that some of the organisations including Oxfam IBIS, who have been working on these issues for many years and are an important voice in the public debate despite having asked for it has not yet become a consultative party on these issues. They have then sent us a hearing reply very quickly, you might say yesterday, and they also point out that it is a problem that in this case Denmark could lead the way, but instead of now sending out a signal that we are relaxing these rules again. After all, we have a huge problem globally with companies moving around on profits and thus avoiding tax and creating such a complex ownership structure that it is very, very difficult for the tax administration not only in Denmark, but even more so, for example. in developing countries to keep up. And the best way to deal with this is to get maximum transparency as to where companies earn their money, so you can start to see through this whole global tax circus. And here we should therefore take the lead in Denmark and not start to make it more opaque. As I said, there are good and bad elements in this, so I would also like to call on the Minister, like the Socialist rapporteur, to consider whether the proposal should be divided into several parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132855	Thank you to the rapporteur. [Sound emission]...
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132906	Thank you. I shall be very brief. We're positive about this bill. We think there's good sense almost all around this bill. Some questions are raised, including in the consultation answers, in relation to the issue of equity lending, where one wants to remove a ban on it, where DI and others, among others. Danish Occupation, also has some reservations, including the Danish Finance Council, which Enhedslisten mentioned. We would like that to be clarified in the committee's work. However, since we are in favour of not over-implementing legislation in Denmark, we are in favour of the legislative proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025132958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade. The alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025133004	Thank you. My points have almost been made by Mr. Pelle Dragsted a moment ago and by Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. That is why I really want to focus on something else. We are also critical of a few elements of the draft law, but in particular the fact that we repeatedly do not consider that very relevant consultation parties are not invited in this is a pity. Oxfam IBIS is, at least in this area, someone I support very much. Not that I always take it for good or that it's always the truth, but there are some angles to the things we sit and work with in here that are just different, and you allow yourself to see things from a different perspective. That is why I think it is actually quite questionable that in the work I am doing looking through the hearings, I do not really find anything that finds blind spots in the part about numbers that do not need to be disclosed due to competitive advantages if they actually exist out there. There I think we need to do more work to get some more different answers. It'll be my main focus. Generally speaking, we simply need to ensure that we do not just open more gates to tax fraud in one way or another. I am quite confident that it is certainly not the Government's wish either, but we must be careful to open gates which are then exploited, even if we do not believe that they will be, because I think we have seen that this can happen many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025133133	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025133150	This bill is, of course, a mixed round, as several of my colleagues have also mentioned, and that is why, on behalf of the SF, I am going to give out both a little rice and praise. In fact, I think that there are some of the parties in here who agree that there are both some good things in this proposal and some things that you cannot do. Part of the bill is about the public register of ownership and not about information about real owners. After all, this is a long discussion we have had. Well, there's a substantial difference. This is an improvement and praise for it, of course we support it, but the government, as we have discussed, must also soon put forward a proposal for an official register of real owners. In relation to the roll-back of reporting requirements for the accounting classes D and C, we in the SF, like several of the other parties, are very critical of the fact that the cut has been made where you have. We need more transparency. We need companies' official reporting as part of their CSR obligations to go all the way through. It is a bit the same discussion we have in relation to the country's reporting, namely that we end up with some blind spots if we do not get it all in. We also want a higher reporting requirement for these two accounting classes. We think that the limit is simply wrong. Then I would like to make a few more specific comments. In relation to the regime proposed by the government on company registration in the public register of owners, it is very important that the public has access to information about the company's owners. It is a completely fundamental instrument for avoiding tax evasion and fraud. It is a very important instrument, so praise to the government for bringing it along and also for it to happen at the same time as the establishment of the company and not with the formulation that was before and which is reasonably vague that it must be done as soon as possible. However, we in the SF are critical of the amendment to the Financial Statements Act, as we believe that the proposal undermines the requirements of companies in accounting classes C and D. The amendment sets out the possibility for companies to avoid providing important financial information about their subsidiaries and other affiliated companies in the form of equity capital and annual profits, and we are therefore very opposed to this, according to the comments I made earlier. For the model chosen for consolidated financial statements cannot contain all the information we need. So, in line with some of my fellow Members, we also want the bill to be divided so that we can vote for what we think is positive, and that is in relation to ownership registration and forced resolution. But some of the other things I mentioned and, of course, also equity ownership loans I completely forgot to mention, because I have put questions to the other rapporteurs on this issue, too, we are very opposed. We simply cannot see why we should extend the range of people who can receive loans, according to my remarks earlier that this is therefore a huge factor of uncertainty, especially at a time when controls are minimal. I did not receive a reply from the rapporteur of the Left on the need to extend the range of those who can receive loans from companies. I also note that there are criticisms both from the DE, from the auditors and from the Finance Council, so we also want to see this clarified on the part of the Minister. My final remark concerns a small element of irritation. It has gradually become free of charge to talk about over-implementation up here from the platform. If the rapporteurs who have used this concept simply wanted to read the government's own papers, they could see that it says that this is not about EU legislation at all. It is not included in EU law. There are some good officials down there who have given us a piece of material to read it through, and then the rapporteurs should not make myths that this is about over-implementation. It is about some countries having one piece of legislation and Denmark having another piece of legislation. I agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that when we have better legislation than a number of other countries, we should not, of course, go down to their level, but that has nothing to do with EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025133625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025133640	Thank you for that and thank you for the many comments that have been made on the legislative proposal. Thank you, too, for the praise, if I may start with the positive reception given by some of the parties that otherwise do not praise the government so often. That is something to be welcomed. After all, it is a remarkable day when Enhedslisten also starts a hearing answer from the Danish Finance Council. We've come a long way. That is a good thing for the further debate. What has been examined by several rapporteurs and which the draft law contains is an overall approach from the government, namely that we want to ensure good framework conditions for the establishment of companies in Denmark through simple, clear and effective business regulation. I also note that there is a broad majority in this Parliament supporting this. With the bill, we also give a number of companies greater flexibility in taking up what we call equity loans. We also create a better framework to ensure that ownership information is recorded and make two minor changes in addition. If you look at the public register of ownership, it is of course the case that the bill must support the registration of owners of companies in the public register of ownership. Owner registered has been introduced precisely to ensure transparency about ownership of Danish companies and to prevent financial crime, for example. also tax evasion. All capital companies have been required to register their owners since 15 July 2015, but there is still a lack of registration of a number of companies. This may mean that the register will not have the desired effect. The draft law will be a prerequisite for registering new companies at the same time as registering the company's owners. You typically know who is when you set up a new company, so it should be an easy solution for companies. Several rapporteurs have actually taken note of this. At the same time, we are introducing the possibility of sending a capital company for compulsory winding-up if it is established that the company has not made any registration of its owners. This must give us a better framework to ensure that the rules are complied with. It is important, I think, to emphasise that, in this context, we do not expect a large number of well-functioning companies to be forced to cease. Of course, we start with reminders and make sure that you are told to do so so so that companies can get registration in place. The sanction is intended as a tool for those companies that actively opt out of compliance with the rules. In relation to the second element, the legalization of equity loans, or what is often commonly known as shareholder loans, it is the case that the draft law allows companies to grant loans to their shareholders and directors under a wide range of conditions. The current Danish rules on own funds loans are stricter than in other countries with which we usually compare, and there is no particular reason to continue to maintain this Danish ban. In the past, the ban on equity loans was inter alia: justified by the fact that the loan was used for tax evasion. This was done by the companies lending money to their owners tax-free instead of lending it as taxable dividends. In many cases, the loans were not repaid. However, as has also been shown, in 2012 tax liability on a large part of these loans was introduced, so the starting point is therefore quite different today. The proposal means that companies are allowed to borrow money to their owners and directors if they meet certain conditions that ensure that the loan is granted in a sound manner and under sound conditions. It must ensure that the creditors of the company are duly taken into account. The loan must therefore include, inter alia: could be accommodated within the free reserves, provided under normal market conditions and approved by the company's general meeting or management. At the same time, changes are made to the Financial Statements Act to ensure that it is clear from the financial statements that the company has used free funds for lending. I would also like to say to some of those who have been critical that, during the committee procedure, I would of course also like to engage in dialogue on the companies that are below the border, in order to ensure that things are not going to happen that is not appropriate. This is primarily a comment on the social democracy, which expressed it, and for that matter also on the Danish People's Party, which is interested in this part of the proposal. Finally, the draft law contains two elements of a more technical nature. We are proposing a clarification of the rules for entrepreneurship companies dealing with capital increases, and then we are proposing to reinstate an exemption for certain information on subsidiaries and associates, an option that was removed by the recent amendment to the Annual Accounts Act in 2015. In this context, I can say that I will, of course, make every effort to ensure in future that the relevant organisations which might be interested in it should, of course, also be consulted in this context. In other words, it is just to meet some of the voices that have been in connection with the contribution that has come from Oxfam IBIS.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134144	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134158	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134215	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill for reinforced action against piracy. It is a great nuisance for individuals and for small and medium-sized enterprises if their products and ideas are duplicated improperly or if there are problems in enforcing one's rights. We have previously, in 2015, while in government, decided to establish a special enforcement unit in the Danish Patent and Trademark Office. However, the European Commission has drawn our attention to the need for some minor adjustments to take account of State aid rules. That is why the draft law that we have before us today deals with some changes that will allow this entity to function perfectly properly according to the rules. The Enforcement Unit shall strengthen efforts to combat piracy by pooling the authority's competences and tasks in the field of enforcement and piracy. The entity shall act as a contact point for consumers, businesses and authorities, and it shall also be able to guide and inform in general about enforcement and piracy. Other tasks of the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office concerning enforcement and piracy shall also be carried out by the entity, including: the cooperation between the administration, the police and the prosecution on piracy. The unit is given some powers to guide in specific cases of piracy, and it can give a written guidance opinion for a fee of DKK 1,500. Now that we are putting more strength and guidance into this unit, it is in order to provide consumers and businesses with a much better basis for deciding whether to proceed with a case, for example. to a private counselor or to the police. And the European Commission has indicated that the scheme can only be compatible with the State aid rules if guidance to enterprises is reserved for small and medium-sized enterprises. We are now addressing this with this bill, so that the unit's guidance in specific cases of piracy is reserved for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the draft law includes provisions allowing for a transfer of fee revenue between the various fields of rights of the Patent and Trademarks Board. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I have to say on behalf of the Radicals that they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134503	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134512	The bill here deals with a change in the trade mark law in relation to stronger action against illegal piracy of other people's products, and we are all interested in that. It is an expiry, as was said by the Social Democrats' rapporteur, of the law passed in 2015 which, after all, created this special enforcement unit in the Patent and Trademarks Board. It's pretty clearly defined what the task is. It is necessary to advise private consumers and small businesses and to assess whether they have a case in relation to whether they should choose to spend resources on it by a private consultant or even refer the matter to the police in connection with a notification. And there it is in everyone's interest that they receive good and concrete guidance and assessment by Danish authorities on whether the patent and trademark law has been broken on Danish soil. In the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that we have this clarification. We also think it is important that we help to organise the legislative changes that have come about relatively quickly after the law has almost just entered into force. But when we can see that there are some challenges, in this case among others. in relation to the transfer of fees for tasks relating to the State aid rules, we must of course also act so that the law can work according to the intention that we have almost all, or at least in the Folketing, agreed, precisely that we want to see stronger action against piracy. Against this background, we can support the bill put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134701	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025134707	I can actually catch the ball with regard to some of what has been said in relation to piracy and companies that are experiencing their trade mark protection being broken, and that is a major problem. It is a major problem in world trade that there are relatively many percent of the trade going on in goods where the rules are being broken when it comes to patents, trademarks and other things, and one thing, of course, is that it is a problem for right-holders, but it is also a problem for consumers. Because there can often be a risk that pirated products do not meet the standards we otherwise expect, and that they do not provide consumers with the security and safety that if produced according to the regulations. If, for example, If you are someone who makes copies and you, as a consumer, are inadvertently going to buy it, then you may have a product that is not only worse and illegal but which can also be directly harmful. So it makes very good sense for a special enforcement unit to be set up at the Patent and Trademarks Board and for them also to have the opportunity to guide consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises in specific cases of piracy. As others have said, it is among other things. in order to ensure that we do not break the State aid rules, that large companies cannot make use of the scheme. They must be expected to do so on their own, which is why I would also like to spend some time on some of the consultation answers that lie in the draft law. Of course this reminds us of the previous draft bill and the consultation answers that came back then... in relation to whether we are now letting the public authorities embark on tasks where... It may be that there is piracy of the sound system in the Parliamentary Chamber, you never know, there is noise on the line, at least, but I am just talking a little louder. I would like to say that, as a matter of fact, I agree that we should not have public authorities carrying out tasks which exist and are being done well in the private market, but the armament of DKK 600,000. In fact, at the Patent and Trademarks Board, which is specifically concerned here in the bill, it is expected that there will actually be more cases. The problem today is that there are a number of small and medium-sized enterprises that are giving up in advance, who are not in a position to engage in the fight to protect their trademarks and who simply do not get things done, and by giving them an opportunity to get guidance, they can get an overview of what the roadmap is and hopefully they will start defending the trade mark in which they have invested. This would therefore be expected to mean that there would be more cases and that there would also be more tasks for private advisers, who would otherwise be a little critical in some of the consultation responses. That is why I believe that it makes a great deal of sense for us to step up our efforts to combat piracy and that we are actually making it easier for trademark holders to ensure the enforcement of the protection they have. Finally, some fee revenue is adjusted on the basis of this and it also makes a great deal of sense. So basically, we think that this is a sensible legislative proposal that ensures a strengthened effort in relation to piracy. There is really good economic sense in that. There is also reason to be able, when you have a trade mark, to protect it and to ensure that no one cheats on the balance bowl. So we support the bill. And I have promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135108	Thank you. I am sure that the rapporteurs will have heard the whole rapporteur's speech if the sound was a little tricky at some point. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135121	Thank you. This is, of course, almost a re-submission of a proposal that we adopted in 2014 on a so-called enforcement unit under the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office. And then we supported the proposal in the Enhedslisten. As my party colleague Mrs Stine Brix said at the time, it is an enforcement agency which is not really entitled to enforce anything, but can only carry out an assessment against a fee which is not binding on any case. So it is more a form of legal aid than an enforcement agency, that is to say, legal aid for companies which believe that they may have been subject to piracy or counterfeiting. One could discuss whether the companies themselves could not pay for this service, i.e. find it on the market. That is why I think it is also positive that it is limited to small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, as far as I can tell, the money is still being found on the Patent and Trademarks Board's budget, and that is quite economically okay with us. However, I would like to point out that it is more important for us that Parliament should give priority to legal aid to those who do not have so many opportunities themselves: socially vulnerable, consumers and others who find it difficult to access the aid they need. However, as I said, we can support the basic idea of the proposal. However, if we do not want to make a final decision today as to whether we can vote in favour of the proposal in the end, it is because we can see in the hearings that there are some legal problems in the proposal and that there may be some sort of grey area in relation to the courts and the police. And we'd like to drill into that a little further before we finally take a position. In addition, we have some doubts about the extent of the types of cases that the enforcement unit should deal with. This is particularly true and it may be that the Minister can clarify it in relation to intangible and digital products, which often relate to very complex issues. It is certainly important for us in the Enhedslisten that we have flexible and up-to-date legislation that makes it easy and realistic for ordinary people to act legally, but in a way that at the same time exploits the potential of the new technologies, and not in an inappropriate way that limits access to and sharing of knowledge and other information resources. So we will take a position on the proposal after committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135415	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135423	Thank you. It is positive that the government will strengthen its efforts to combat piracy. We can support the establishment of this enforcement unit under the Danish Patent and Trademarks Office. It is given the task of providing consumers and businesses with information on what to do when there may be suspicion of piracy, etc. It must assist other authorities in pursuing companies that make piracy, and it must work with other international organisations that fight piracy. This is all good and we can support it. We agree with Danish Industry that it is regrettable that this enforcement agency should be able to give written statements against payment of a fee. There are private companies that provide this kind of advice today, and so we do not think that the public should go into this area. This is something that the government is otherwise concerned with in other areas. That is a very good thing, we support it, and that is why we really feel that, when it comes to the re-submission of a proposal made by the previous government, this element should have been tampered with, and so we would like to see it done. We must then have a dialogue with the government on this, but it is probably a prerequisite for us to be able to support the legislative proposal, for it to be tampered with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135607	Thank you. The next one is sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135613	I find it gratifying that the European Union is ringing a bell, which is a sign of something positive and progressive. I think that is the case here. Other bells happen regularly in the EU. You can be more sceptical about them. However, I think it is a good thing that we are focusing on the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain legal aid, as has already been said. That is how we see it in the alternative. As a starting point, therefore, there is not really anything to be done on our part. We think it is a positive proposal and can support it. When discussing this, it is important to have in mind that we often talk about the protection of trademarks and patents as something that is clearly good. It is also far along the way, but when we talk about ensuring innovation and being what makes it possible for us to develop products in the best possible way and that consumers have the best possible way of working with them at the best possible price, we just have to remember that sometimes it is also trademarks that destroy innovation and maintain something in an unhealthy structure. I'm not gonna find any of this in this bill. However, as I mentioned during the discussion of the second, there are some things in some headlines that can make you look a second time. I think this is sensible, and I do not think it is in any way distorting competition for those consultancy companies that could provide the same service. It was something else if it was in an area such as export or something like that where you went in and offered some consultancy services. This is something legal, and it's about somebody being a criminal against you. That is at least one's view. As a starting point, we are in favour, but I would like to raise the flag and say that we must help and support trademarks and patents so that people get something out of the investments they make. But not least in the digital age, we need to be aware that these long-term ownerships of products destroy all other momentum, not least digitally.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135818	Thank you. It does not appear that the Radical Left is present. Then the next must be Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025135830	After all, the bill has been well examined and the SF also tends to support it, but as several of my colleagues have said, there are some things we would like to dive a little further into. But it looks like we can support it. You can have a long discussion about piracy and intellectual property rights in the digitalised world, etc., and I think that is also a very, very important discussion. In fact, I also agree with Mr Tugendhat a great deal. René Gade in that there is a danger that we will go too far, that is to say that you will be able to have rights to sequences and to all sorts of things within the digital world, but this bill just doesn't have much to do with that. It says that in those cases where something is already illegal, we need a unit to enforce the rules. That is why the SF also leans towards supporting it, and then we will have to take the big discussion another time. But I think it is really important, so the only reservation I have today is precisely that the issue of this unity will not put us in a position to discuss what rights can be enjoyed, especially intellectual property rights. We have a few questions for the committee, and then we expect to be able to support the Minister's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140004	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. And since the Conservative rapporteur is not here either, it is now the Minister for Industry and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140015	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your broad support for the legislative proposal we are debating now. It is of course the case, as was said earlier, that in 2015 the Danish Parliament dealt with the draft law which is the basis of the current draft law. The purpose of the bill is to adjust the provisions of the Act for 2015 on the establishment of a special enforcement unit in the Danish Patent and Trademarks Board for the sake of EU State aid rules. The Enforcement Unit shall be empowered to provide guidance in specific cases of piracy. This scheme has been notified to the European Commission, which has considered that the scheme would only be compatible with the State aid rules if the guidance given to companies in specific cases of piracy were reserved for small and medium-sized enterprises. This restriction must therefore also be reflected in the law. The bill was adopted by a broad majority back in 2015. As several rapporteurs have said, piracy is an increasing problem to the detriment of consumers, businesses and the economy. In addition, piracy is often anchored in both serious and organised crime. All of this is something that I hope a broad majority in the Danish Parliament finds reprehensible. Piracy can also influence Danish companies' incentives for innovation and thus also contribute to negative development. This is because we in Denmark are not least very competitive when you look at creating and developing knowledge, and there are also many Danish companies who make a living developing products based on the latest technology and design. It is all a good thing that you can live on knowledge and, above all, translate knowledge into growth. The special unit of the Patent and Trademarks Board will act as an entrance for consumers, companies and authorities in the issue of piracy and enforcement, among others. trademark rights and design rights. The Unit shall also assist the Attorney General for Special Economic and International Crime, Søik, and other authorities in the fight against piracy. I also think it is important that we help small and medium-sized enterprises when they are subjected to piracy. The new unit must ensure that. Here consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises can approach and get initial and preliminary guidance when they experience piracy. In this way, they will have a better basis for deciding whether or not to proceed with a case for example. A lawyer or the police. The aim is therefore that the help that can be obtained by addressing the new entity will lead to more people choosing to actively enforce their rights, and in this way the unit is also expected to lead to more cases being raised with the consulting industry and the police. However, I also note, of course, that there have been some issues during the debate in this Chamber which we can raise in committee. And that's fine. I can then say, in relation to Enhedslisten's comments on the digital issues, that this is something that lies with the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140320	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140334	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140355	Thank you, President. If there is something left as a key lesson from the recent financial crisis, it is the need for us to regulate the financial sector continuously from a political point of view; that we ensure that the sector is robust, that it is upholstered and that it is stormproof and that it is not stormproof for everything in the world. Basically, the basic rules of the financial game must be observed. There must be effective supervision, and if anyone is speculating about violating financial legislation, then we must ensure that there are sanctions of such a noticeable nature that sanctions are proportionate to the gravity of the crime. In other words, sanctions must have a real preventive nature that deters people and businesses from violating financial legislation. The recent financial crisis gave the world community a hard time, but we all know who suffers the greatest losses when the financial crisis is raging. It is ordinary workers who lose their jobs; it is families who have to leave home and home; and it is small and medium-sized enterprises that have to turn the key and shut down. The Social Democratic Party therefore welcomes the fact that with this extensive 488 pages of complex legislative proposals it wants to implement a number of changes in the financial field with the aim of making the financial sector even more robust. I will not go over all 488 pages in detail, but I would like to highlight three main points from the draft law. Firstly, a new system of fines is proposed to increase fines in the financial field. The new model is based on the proposal of the Committee on financial penalties, and the model provides a greater link between the gravity of the crime, the size of the institute and the level of fines. The size of the fine increases significantly. I think this and the Social Democrats are a step in the right direction, which I hope will have a preventive effect. Secondly, amended rules for the systemically important financial institutions are proposed; in daily terms, we shorten the SIFIs and proposed stricter requirements for suitability to sit in corporate governance; and the phasing-in of capital buffer requirements is proposed. These are measures to underpin financial stability and ensure the responsible operation of institutions and follow up on banking package VI. Today, systemically important financial institutions can only be designated once a year, but with the proposal it will be possible to appoint SIFIs in exceptional cases during the year. Greater requirements for good corporate governance are introduced in SIFIs, so that the rules on suitability and integrity also include key persons. The proposal shall contribute to ensuring that all key staff members, either as part of the day-to-day management or as responsible for a key function, are adequately qualified to carry out the post. The proposal also ensures that financial undertakings pursue a more sound remuneration policy that does not encourage speculation in the form of short-term gains with high risk taking. These are all sensible measures. Thirdly, extended supervisory and control powers are proposed to give the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Danish Business Authority new opportunities to address market abuse. It is all measures that strengthen the resilience and soundness of the sector and that significantly tighten up against people and institutions who would want to violate financial legislation. Finally, I would like to say that the amendments proposed strengthen the regulation of the financial sector, and that is absolutely good. These are changes that can help create a more robust sector. I would also like to send out the clear signal that, on top of the recent financial crisis, we are following closely from the political point of view developments in the financial sector, especially the SIFIs, which are of such size that they may have far-reaching negative consequences for households, businesses and the economy in general if such an institute becomes in need. If we see socially damaging activities, we should not hesitate to increase political regulation. It is also worth noting that, overall, the draft law has been welcomed in the consultation responses, and with the extensive proposal I also think we should look forward to thorough committee work. After all, many of the elements of the proposal are based on previously concluded agreements, of which the Social Democratic Party is a part, and so, of course, the Social Democrats can also support the overall proposal. Once again, I welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who unfortunately could not be in the Chamber today during the legislative procedure, and say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140839	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025140846	This bill is extremely fundamental and important in view of the fact that what we have an interest in Denmark is that there is a high degree of confidence in the Danish financial sector. We have proven through the financial crisis since 2008 that there is indeed great confidence in the Danish way of dealing with challenges in the financial sector. Our banking business is highly trusted, and our mortgage and other related institutions are particularly trusted. It is therefore also good, of course, that we have had the many bank packages that have followed up and have tried to optimise the situation, which has been the case, that we, too, from political Denmark, have had an interest in stimulating this investor confidence to remain at a very high level. We have seen that it has been, and this has meant that throughout the financial crisis Denmark was one of the places where one went and said that here is a financial helmet, here is a place where one might get a very, very low return, but in return one gets a small but safe return, and it was perhaps better than going out on the more spectacular financial markets. That is why it is also important for us to follow up with this bill on the agreements already made on bank packages and banking operations in general. As the rapporteur has said before, it contains a number of different restrictions. Among other things: the new, improved system of fines, which has a greater correlation between the amount of the fine in relation to the degree of gravity of any damage suffered, and also an assessment of the size of each institution. In other words, this means that the amount of the fine will be better than the nature of the offence as a whole. Another point is that, in relation to the systemically important financial institutions, we are making stricter requirements for both fitness and, above all, integrity to the people who sit as key figures in the relevant institutions. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is in favour of the overall bill. Like the Socialists, we have also been involved in many of these partial agreements with which it is essentially linked, and we can therefore also support it. But we also think there is reason to raise the flag a little in order for us to bear witness to this bill that we are working hard to remain a country where there is a high degree of confidence in entering, also with foreign capital, and to invest in the Danish financial markets. So on that basis, the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025141144	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025141153	I can start with the surprising conclusion that in fact the Left also thinks that this is a quite sensible legislative proposal, which we intend to support. And we are doing so with some of the same reasons as the rapporteurs before me have explained. For it is essential that there is confidence in the financial sector. And that is not because we need to be particularly concerned about banks and mortgage institutions because it is a pity for them, no, it is because we are all deeply dependent on the fact that we have a well-functioning financial sector that can provide loans to both citizens and businesses and that can invest and set something in motion and ensure that the money that is in society is managed properly and securely, and that we can have confidence in it and trust that the legislation that is, the supervision that is with our financial actors, works effectively and properly, because without confidence in the financial sector, it is extremely difficult to create growth in a society. And that is why over the years we have taken a large number of initiatives to ensure calm in the financial markets, by creating the necessary stability, and also by ensuring that the regulation for which we are responsible is effective and that some of the mistakes that have been made in the past are not repeated. This is essentially the main purpose of the draft law. Others have explained the content, so let me just say briefly that it makes sense that the fines that can be imposed, of course, reflect more closely the seriousness of the infringement that has been committed and, of course, also the importance of the offender in relation to financial stability. These are recommendations that are based on some of the agreements we have made in the past, both in 2010 and in 2013, so it makes good sense. The same applies to the possibility that SIFIs, i.e. systemically important financial institutions, can be designated not only once a year, but also if needed, for example in the case of mergers and divisions and everything else. In the situation where there are some who change their company structure, what has been essential to being an SIFI institution should also be applicable and implemented immediately, so that you do not wait until a certain date just because it happens outside the normal deadlines. Then, of course, it must be possible to ensure that the conditions we impose on the main players can be enforced from day one. I would also like to say a few words about the changed supervisory and control powers granted to the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Danish Business Authority in terms of living up to protecting us from market abuse. There is, of course, a clear provision that it must be effectively enforced. And just to clear up a misunderstanding, I would like to say that it will not be possible to carry out inspections without a court order from employees or others from the company. It is up to companies, and it is also emphasized that efforts should be made to make use of other less intrusive measures first, but if this is necessary, then this legislative proposal will be able to carry out the checks necessary to ensure that the rules are complied with. So basically, we think that makes really good sense. In fact, it also makes very good sense, in relation to what was probably a major problem at some point in the financial crisis, i.e. that some of the decisions made by the FSA were not made public that they are doing so today. However, it is not possible today to publish it if an institute which has been suspected of or is accused of having broken the rules is subsequently acquitted. It is not compulsory for it to be published, but at least now it is possible, because I think that is just as important, so that if some have been notified for a case and have subsequently been acquitted, they must of course also be given the opportunity to bring it forward when a clean table has been made. It makes very good sense for us to ensure that our regulation of the financial markets is up to date and that we understand that there are no gaps and places where we do not make use of the experience we have paid dearly for. And that is why it is a bill that we in the Left support, as I started by saying. In conclusion, the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025141654	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025141709	As several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, the financial sector is, after all, one of the most dangerous and most important in terms of our economy. After all, we have given a huge power to some private companies, which, if they have an irresponsible behaviour, which is selfish, characterised by a lack of regard for society, can actually tear whole communities apart and cause economic earthquakes which have consequences for millions of people. That is why it is extremely important, when and if we leave this enormous power to some private banks, that we have a tough regulation of their business, because we have seen time and again that this is not something we can expect them to do on their own. That is why, overall, we also welcome many of the elements of this proposal. There are also a few that we are a little more sceptical about. That's kind of the problem with these big pile of proposals: how do you feel when a lot is good, but there are also some corners that aren't so good. The first element, as several others have said, concerns the fact that financial undertakings who violate the law on financial activities are subject to fines, and we think this is a good thing. It is important that the fines actually have an amount that makes them work, otherwise you can speculate on getting fines and, of course, it should not be that way. It is therefore also positive that the fines should be graduated after the offence. Compared to this adjustment of how to identify these systemically important financial institutions, i.e. SIFIs, we are basically quite critical of the whole SIFI construction. We think that when financial companies become so large that they threaten social security and the economy, they should be divided into smaller companies, for example. split mortgage loans from banking and other parts. It's not like that today. Whatever we think of it, SIFI is a fact, and that is why we think that it is a sensible adjustment that you make, where you are, for example, if there is. is a merger or other, can rapidly award an entity SIFI certificate. We also think it is positive that we now want to make demands on key persons employed in an SIFI, for example. sufficiently good reputation, integrity or integrity. Some may think that it may create some recruitment problems in the financial sector, but with the loose wording used, it is likely that they will find no one to hire and it is certainly positive that criminal liability should not be imposed, for example. be subject to bankruptcy or debt relief or the like. Then more praise to the government here. It's becoming a bad habit today. Then there are the rules on remuneration in financial companies. After all, there are already some rules that apply today. We think it is a good thing if what we are proposing here is to tighten up the rules. We would like to look at some of the wordings, for example. when writing in the bill on page 29 that in future a substantial part of the variable salary should be allocated in instruments. What, then, is the significance of the concept? We would like that to be bored out, but as a starting point we think that the less you pay as a variable wage, the better, because we have seen what this kind of remuneration can cause from problems. So far, so good. Then there are a few things we are sceptical about. We are in doubt about this proposal to reduce the capital requirement for fund-brokers. It is rather unclear to us what the consequences of this could be, and we would like to try to make further progress in the legislative process in committee, because it might be said that it goes against the ambitions for more stability in the financial market if capital requirements are relaxed. Then we are also sceptical that the Growth Fund money should now be able to be invested in foreign companies investing in Danish companies. There we certainly need a more thorough review to ensure that the money from the Growth Fund is spent wisely. As can be seen now, the Growth Fund is entitled to invest in foreign development companies that are expected to invest in companies in Denmark. One might well ask oneself: that one expects an investment in Danish companies, is that enough? This is why we believe that money from the Growth Fund should be sent in this direction. Time's up. We are waiting to see what we are going to think of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142226	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142237	Thank you. As others have said, L 39 is a quite comprehensive bill. It contains a large number of elements, of which we are in favour of some of them and less in favour of others. The proposal to designate SIFIs more than once a year seems to us to be common sense. We agree with that. Then there is the whole element of remuneration for key employees and fit and propeller etc. In principle, we believe that wages and working conditions are a matter for employers and workers only. As far as all other areas are concerned, so do most parties, but in the financial field it has been decided to regulate them very carefully. This, of course, leads to higher wages in general, it must be assumed. There are then some parties who complain in other contexts that people in the financial sector have high salaries. Then there's the new fine system. We can support this as well. Then there is the element of the possibility of publishing free reins which we think are positive. We also think it is positive that the capital requirements for fund-brokers are lowered so that they are aligned with the rules in force in the European Union. On the other hand, we are in favour of the Danish Business Authority being given the opportunity, without a warrant, to carry out inspections. I know that the FSA already has that opportunity today, but as we are generally sceptical that over the past many decades the authorities have been given more and more opportunities to circumvent section 72 of the Constitution, it is not an element of the bill that we are enthusiastic about. When, in particular, bourgeois parties debate this issue, they become very principled. However, when it comes to specific legislation, the principles smoke a little, and they have done so increasingly over many years. We believe, of course, that the authorities should be given the opportunity to carry out inspections, but it cannot be difficult to create a system that allows you to obtain a court order whenever you wish. That is why, as I said, we are sceptical about that part of the bill. We have not finally decided how we will vote when the bill comes to the third reading, but it may be that it ends in yellow. Let's see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142525	The last few legislative proposals today have been largely favourable to us. However, it is impossible for me to say definitive yes. Well, here we are as close to a clear yes as we can be now. There's nothing negative in this bill from our side. I discussed this with our former business rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, earlier this morning at our open group meeting, where we are debating these recommendations before we go to the Chamber. It is a fairly large-scale joint proposal and we could simply not recall anything from the past, even from now on, that makes it impossible for us to support it. Those are mostly a few words that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur mentioned before, so some restrictions on some rights here and here, which were mentioned in a headline that one can be a little anxious about. In fact, we are very positive about this proposal. We think that, at best, we are doing exactly what we want, in other words that the government wants to put an end to the financial sector's being able to make some fuss that is not desirable for anyone other than a few individuals. I am actually very confident that this is also the wish of the government, which is why we are very positive about it. There are a few words I just have to go home and stoop over, because I may have sometimes experienced that we still have quite a disagreement with the government in these areas. So maybe I missed something.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142647	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth if the Minister for Industry and Growth so wishes. Sorry, there was just SF. I very much regret that I was a little too quick in the text, but it is because there are some rapporteurs today who have left the floor to others. But welcome to Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142709	Thank you, Mr President. One should hope for a little sister's solidarity now that we're so few in here. But thank you for the floor. It was not really to start too cheerfully, because it is on a very serious background that we have to deal with this government bill, which I would also like to commend to the Minister for today if he has time to accept that praise. 'Cause there's a lot of good stuff on the wallpaper today. And this is also a step forward on the basis of the conditions that have now been given to us, for example. in relation to the level of fines. Of course, it makes sense that a level of fines should reflect both the size of the company so that it can be felt and the size of the gravity, so to speak. I think the other rapporteurs have gone into the various elements of this draft law very well. However, I would like to add that SF is a member of the Conciliation Committee behind Financial Stability and has been involved in a lot of legislation on this. But I would like to say, like my colleague from the Enhedslisten, that we are acting on the basis of the art of the possible, when we make this type of legislation, because the best thing would be that we didn't have SIFIs, that we didn't have banks that were too big to fail, and that in that way we would be locked as politicians. If the worst should happen, we will be put in a totally unfair situation. We also saw it after the financial crisis. We have no other option but to put the entire Danish economy at risk. So in the best of all worlds we would also have a completely different system from what we have here. But that is what we have to do well with, and that is why it is also positive that with this proposal we can get a stamp like SIFI bank more quickly than today, that is to say, systemically important, and that the increased fines can hopefully also help to dampen what should be said about the desire to commit crime. I'm not gonna throw myself into this whole debate about integrity. I also believe that there may be very different perceptions of what integrity is, but at least compliance with the law has to be observed and the consequences have become significantly greater with this bill. So praise the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142942	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the Minister for Business and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025142950	Thank you. And thank you for the many positive comments on the legislative proposal that we are now considering. As has also been mentioned a few times, the draft law we are discussing here today aims to contribute to a more robust and therefore stronger financial sector, which underpins financial stability. At the same time, the draft law must strengthen the possibilities for enforcing financial regulation both effectively and crediblely. I am also aware, as some rapporteurs have said, that this is a fairly large-scale legislative proposal. That is why I have offered that there could be a technical review of the draft law, in which a large number of the comments that have been made today can also be made. But let me try to review a few of the most important elements of the bill. The first thing I would like to mention is the part of the legislative proposal that is about introducing a new system of fines for breaches of the law on financial activities. It must ensure greater consistency between the gravity of the infringements, the size of the Institute and the level of fines, all of which are common sense. After all, the proposal is based on the recommendations of a unanimous committee on fines, which issued a report here earlier this year. The committee was set up as a follow-up to the banking package VI, which a couple of rapporteurs have mentioned. It is important to bear in mind that an effective system of sanctions is a key element in ensuring a well-regulated and therefore sound and robust financial sector. Another element that I would like to highlight is the increased flexibility in the possibility of designating systemically important financial institutions, i.e. SIFIs. Today it is only possible to appoint SIFIs once a year. It is proposed that in future there should be an opportunity to make an ongoing appointment. This must help to ensure financial stability by preventing an institution from meeting the conditions for a longer period of time but not being designated SIFI. The bill also contains another proposal in relation to SIFIs. In order to ensure the responsible and efficient operation of SIFIs, it is proposed to introduce stricter requirements for the suitability and integrity of senior staff, so-called key persons, into SIFIs. It is also part of the follow-up to the agreement that was in the context of banking package VI. In addition, the draft law here reduces the initial capital of fundbrokers' companies. These companies will then be subject to initial capital requirements that correspond to the minimum requirements of EU regulation, also something that is perfectly common sense. This will precisely help to create better conditions of competition and growth opportunities for Danish fund brokers. The last element I would like to mention is that we are proposing to extend the publication rules so that the FSA will publish in future, among other things. Advocate General P. Léger delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 26 September 2002. In doing so, we are also helping to give the public a more accurate picture of the law in force. Then I sign for the many positive comments that have been made, and not least for the complimentary words that came from the SF which may make you think that there is something in the bill that is wrong when the SF in this way entangles the government. But it was a humorous remark to the SF rapporteur. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025143257	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025143321	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025143344	Thank you. After all, the Arctic is increasingly important, and there are increasing numbers of actors and countries that are interested in the Arctic, and therefore it is also relevant to have this debate in the Chamber on the Foreign Minister's statement on cooperation in the Arctic. The statement describes, on the one hand, the various cooperation forums, the Arctic Council as the most important, but also the EU relationship and the cooperation that takes place in the Nordic context, and, on the other hand, it describes a number of the different cooperation that is material, i.e. the substantive part of it. It is about the continental shelf project, i.e. Denmark's claim that the North Pole is ours, the defence's task solution, mapping, both the maps and the sea maps, as the ice melts and the sailing opportunities change, tourism increases. These are energy and climate challenges, health issues, police issues, research issues, business cooperation and trade issues. It is clear that when you have a statement that covers all the topics and all the processes, it will of course be a lot to yawn over, and it may also end up being a rather naming description of structures and processes and perhaps with less focus on goals and results. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I think there is reason to highlight a few important areas of focus. Firstly, we think it is important that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area. The key body to ensure this is, as is also described, the Arctic Council and the ability of the Council to keep the security policy situation elsewhere than in the region at a distance. I say this in connection with the behaviour that is actually seen in other places, whether in Ukraine, in the Crimea or in Syria, so that it does not also become the model of how to behave in the Arctic region. Fortunately, it has to be said that the structure of the Arctic Council, the principles that have been laid down, the decision to stick to international law, shows itself to be possible to add so far, but there is thus no reason to do so to be a good model in ensuring that we can talk about the common problems that exist. The second focus, which I think there is reason to mention, is climate change. The melting of the ice sheet creates new challenges and opportunities. After all, we have found this out of a number of rounds in different contexts. New opportunities arise for sailing, that is to say, both the west and the east, and new opportunities are emerging for tourist navigation, as well as new opportunities for the exploitation of resources on land and on water in the Arctic area, and it places new demands and greater demands on our military sovereignty, enforcement in the area for the discharge of marine environmental tasks, for fisheries inspection and for the possibilities of searching and rescue. These are all issues that we have discussed in different contexts over recent years. I think that what can be seen in this year's report is that we are now beginning to move to where there are, in fact, a number of analyses which can provide the basis for future decisions, decisions which need to be taken under different headings, but which could still mean that we will be able to tackle some of the major challenges that exist. These are my comments on the statement as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025143750	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025143808	I would like to start by acknowledging that the Arctic region will have an independent statement, so that we do not just have it as seven lines in a report on the North, for example. The statement, which is based on the international collaborations that exist in the Arctic, and of which the Kingdom Community between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark is a part, is based on many years of work, research into problems of belonging and much more. After all, the Arctic is a huge area where the five coastal states or countries adjacent to the area of Canada, the United States, Russia, Norway and so the kingdom of Denmark qua Greenland are a natural part and continue to support the Ilulissat Declaration that was made, that if conflicts should arise, disagreements in the Arctic, then as far as possible they are also tried to resolve them under Arctic auspices. But there are also countries such as Iceland, which I think is a perfectly natural part of the area. China, Japan, the EU and the rest of the Nordic countries are major players in the Arctic, or at least very much want to be. I think that is a good thing, especially if you want the good, but that is not always the case. I will not fail to bear in mind the involvement of the European Union, which, time after time, conflicts with some parts of the Commonwealth and where we see that the European Union will not listen to Greenland or the Faroe Islands. When the European Union so much rejected their application for observer status in the Arctic Council, it was only because Canada kept saying no to allowing them to participate. I don't have a problem with that. In fact, I think it is a problem that the EU is interfering in the Arctic and thus creating conflict between Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In the North we all want the Arctic well, of course with the special interests that must come. However, we know how important it is that we take good care of it and that the people who use the resources there are do so wisely and that they are being fished and caught to the extent that the area can bear. However, with the prospect of future fishing in the high seas of the Arctic Ocean, we know that there are many who see new opportunities and thereby earnings in the area. Therefore, we must be very careful and look very carefully at what is happening up there. At least in the Nordic countries we have an obligation to do so. Just think of all the measures on fisheries that take place through international fisheries agreements between a large number of countries. Here in November, the Faroe Islands will host the third meeting of the participating parties to ensure a sustainable fish stock. The Nordic Council of Ministers, most recently with the Danish and Finnish Presidencies, also puts a lot of energy into it and focuses on it, and a small amount of money has also been set aside for it in the coming years. Cooperation between countries is of course a great deal, among other things. The continental shelf project about what belongs to who and where. The main task of the defence is of course military, that is to be a defence of Greenland and the Faroe Islands both on land, at sea and in the air; the Sirius patrol, which tirelessly drives up and down the eastern and northern coast of Greenland; our people at station North and Mestersvig, as the two tiny units they are, in their solitude for most of the year, make things work and are therefore also part of the preparedness. It was a great experience to visit them and see their everyday life when we were around with the Defence Committee in Greenland recently. The fleet, which sails around and helps with everything from sea rescue, surveying, fishing control, environmental monitoring, shipping, sailing safety, supports police work etc. The Air Force comes with supplies and helps with shipwreck, surveillance and much more. Yes, our defenses are of great use up there. Then there's everything about land and sea charting, where there's a long way to go before we're in the finish line. There are no optimal maps, and only a few percent have been measured on the lake. Climate and energy: The COP 21 included: focussed on climate agreements, which also take into account the indigenous peoples and their rights. I think that is important. Health both among humans and animals: Very much crap from all over the world floats up and lies like a duvet in the waters of the north. You see animals that are no longer able to reproduce, and people who die prematurely because of poor lifestyles with alcohol and other drugs. This too is being worked on cross-border and cross-border, precisely to see where we can improve. The police carry out ordinary tasks of the kind that the police do, however, with the chin that the police circle is typically huge, huge. Therefore, it may take a long time to get to the place where help or task solution is needed in Greenland. What about the future? You have to ask yourself that. With the great interests of the Arctic, it may even go to a place where there will be strife. Can we be sure we can talk about everything? When there are such large quantities of raw materials that you want at all costs, you may get there that you cannot agree on how to do it. Is there gas and oil that it will be interesting to get hold of in a few years' time because it is difficult to keep and look after the area? I am thinking here of Russia, which invests billions and billions in large installations under the Arctic Sea, and their doings and barns on Svalbard, although it is Norwegian territory and so on. etc. and on the Chinese, who will come with a very large number of freighters whenever possible. They will sail with everything from small gadgets to perhaps dangerous goods such as chemistry and fertilizer and other exports to Europe and the North Atlantic. So all in all, we need all the mouthpieces we can find, cross-cutting, at all levels, whether it be fishing, health, energy or anything else. We have an obligation to do so, and we certainly cannot be otherwise familiar. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025144508	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025144522	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Arctic is an important foreign policy priority for Denmark and in many ways an area of our foreign policy that we should have even more focus on. This is also a point highlighted in the Taksøe-Jensen report on priorities for Danish foreign policy. For it is quite simply crucial that Denmark focuses on this part of our area of proximity • it cannot be emphasised enough. Of course, the empire has great interests in the Arctic, and this requires close cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland in particular in order to safeguard these interests. Nor is there any doubt that our voice is much stronger when we speak with one voice, as is the case in the Arctic Council. Here the Commonwealth provides added value for all three parts of the Kingdom. Fortunately, the Arctic is currently a so-called low-voltage area, and it should, of course, remain so. We must do everything we can to avoid military tensions in the region. The question of territorial borders in the Arctic has attracted great attention. A very long process has been initiated, in which all parties have agreed to resolve the dispute within the framework of the UN's so-called Commission on the Borders of the Continental Shelf, also known as CLCS. As you know, their recommendations are intended to form a framework for negotiations between States on the final border crossing. As I said, this is a process in which all the countries concerned have agreed to resolve possible territorial disputes through dialogue. And despite the ongoing challenges with Russia, where countries in other parts of the world are using arms to defend Moscow's interests, so far we have managed to keep the Arctic dialogue in its own right. We must, however, be aware of developments in Russia, where more aggressive behaviour on the Russian side can also potentially affect the conditions in the Arctic. We must be wary of increased Russian military activity in the Arctic, because it is unfortunately very obvious that Russia is increasingly ignoring international law, respect for land borders and international agreements in recent years. We have experienced ourselves in the past here in Denmark that military exercises have gone very close to Danish territory, and even a neutral country like Sweden feels that the Russian bear again shows teeth in the form of increasing Russian activity. We cannot therefore just sit back and be sure that Russia will play by the rules of the Arctic forever, since it does not comply with international standards and agreements anywhere else in the world. Therefore, in view of the changed security policy situation, we must constantly observe the situation closely. Denmark must not, of course, escalate the conflict in the Arctic. On the other hand, we constantly have to show to Russia that we do not intend to let ourselves be squeezed in any way out of the demands we have in the Arctic. Fortunately, the Arctic is relatively peaceful in spite of what has been said, and relations between the States of the Arctic can very much be dealt with within the framework of the Arctic Council. Denmark takes an active part in the work of the Council and has cooperated closely with the current US Presidency. One of the areas where Denmark has been particularly active is in relation to the environment and sea rescue. Ecosystems in the Arctic are very sensitive, which is why it is important to have a readiness to respond if, for example, there is a need for a response. oil spills from ships. With the changes in temperature, the Arctic is increasingly dangerous to ships, thus increasing the risk of, for example, oil spills. The same applies to sea rescue. This is particularly topical with regard to the increasing number of cruise ships moving towards northern waters. As such, the potential is huge, but it is important to keep thinking about the environment and safety at all times. Now it is not all sunshine stories, because, in relation to the Arctic, it can annoy us that there could be no agreement on granting observer status to the European Union. Unlike the Danish People's Party, I am sorry that this was not possible, especially because, in fact, observer status has been granted to China and India, and the European Union should, after all, be something more obvious. However, it seems that disagreements over seal catches and Russian resistance have been blocked, and it is particularly regrettable that this year the European Union has adopted a major strategy for the Arctic, in which the importance of the area is recognised. Instead of opposing each other, the different actors should work together within the same framework, namely in the Arctic Council. Fortunately, we have managed to find a system in which the European Union is de facto participating as an observer, but it is not possible to escape the fact that it is unsustainable and should also be contrary to our own interests that the European Union cannot participate as an observer on an equal footing with India and China. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a brief remark. There's actually two. The first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145109	Thank you very much and thank you for your contribution. I would also like to say from Inuit Ataqatigiit that we are also taking the same line in relation to the European Union having observer status. We see no obstacle to that. In relation to an Arctic strategy, IA has also made a wish for Greenland to make its own Arctic strategy, just as we see that the Faroese have their own Arctic strategy. What will the Left think of such a desire?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145138	I'll take that on. I think it is important, as I also mentioned in my speech, that we have the Arctic as a priority. As I also mentioned in my speech, even the Taksøe-Jensen report shows how important it is that we have as much focus on it as possible. I feel, and this is also what we are really demonstrating, both with the active work we are doing in the Arctic Council, and also generally as a foreign policy strategy. So I really don't think that there's a need for the more I think about it for a priority, because we're actually already up to, let's say, the highest level. So I actually think we're well covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145217	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145219	When it was debated in Inatsisartut yesterday, Naalakkersuisut rejected the proposal in relation to Greenland having its own Arctic strategy, but there were also some new, such critical notes, I would say, in relation to the Kingdom's Arctic strategy. I would like to say that from Inuit Ataqatigiits we would like to see us involved in the evaluation of the current Kingdom's Arctic strategy, but that we will also have our own Arctic strategy worked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145251	We certainly also include, as I also mentioned in my speech, both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. We are in a trinity in this kingdom which, I think, has a one hundred percent common interest in this area, and we should be one hundred percent agreed on our strategy, which I actually still believe we are. So instead of apologizing, I am saying it to try to breathe into a disagreement that does not exist, I think we should give each other a pat on the back and say: it is actually quite good that, despite some disagreements in some other areas, we can agree that the Arctic we stand together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145323	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145327	Thank you. That was a fine speech from the rapporteur, I should like to start by saying. I also agree that it is regrettable that the European Union has not received observer status in the Arctic Council. But then the rapporteur says that it is only some disagreement about some seal catch. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that it is a serious matter when, for ideological reasons, the European Union excludes an export product coming from the Arctic? Is that not a legitimate reason to say that then the European Union has nothing to do as an observer in the Arctic if one goes against such fundamental interests as the people of the Arctic have?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145405	I clearly recognise that, in relation to seal catches, there is disagreement in this area, including in relation to the European Union. I would like to acknowledge that. I just do not think it should be a stop-block for having the European Union as an observer in the Arctic Council. I think we could handle that, not least in view of the fact that, as I see it, the Arctic Council should be the place where we are trying to agree on the future of the Arctic. Then one must be able to take the more such trade discussions elsewhere in the eyes of the goose. So I don't think it should be a stop-block. I recognise that there is a disagreement, but it should not be a stop-block.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145440	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145442	Thank you. It's called no seal, no deal. If we cannot export our goods that our indigenous people export to the European Union, then we will not come along. If the rapporteur does not think that this is a reasonable condition to say that if we are to be involved in the development of the Arctic, we must have the basic principle that the Arctic is for the people who live in the Arctic and they must be able to develop economically, like all other people in the world, that the countries that have, for example, the Arctic. a thought that the Arctic should be a reservation, doesn't have so much to do in the Arctic context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145515	At any rate, I recognise that seal hunting means a great deal to Greenland, and I understand very well that it is an important, important political priority to have, namely the right to reserve it in future too, of course. I know that this is a major debate with the European Union as a system, but also with some countries in the European Union. I just still think that we should discuss it somewhere else, because here we are discussing the future of how and how to secure both safety and environmental benefits, and then, as I see it in the goose-eyes, it is still a commercial discussion. You may then disagree or agree with that, but it must then be taken somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145554	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145559	Thank you. After all, the Arctic is an area which many non-Arctic countries have a great deal of regard for, and which also sees as an area of action in the future in terms of the new shipping routes and in terms of mineral raw materials, and for geopolitical reasons. Of course, the great interest shown in obtaining observer status in the Arctic Council has also spread. The Kingdom of Denmark is part of the Arctic and of the Arctic Council, yet Denmark has a cooperation with the Americans, which ultimately has brought and still brings with it major problems in terms of major environmental pollution in Greenland based on the Americans and the Danes' defence agreement. What does the rapporteur think should be done to ensure that Denmark as a kingdom can live up to working for a good and clean and environmentally sustainable Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145702	Well, I've had the opportunity myself, among other things. to visit Thule Air Base in Greenland, and I also acknowledge the question. Now I do not remember what the decommissioned American base is called, but there is also an environmental discussion about cleaning it up. Of course, it is important that we keep making sure that the various have been cleaned up, we should call it the leftovers that are there. At the same time, I would just like to say clearly that the agreement we have with one of our closest allies, namely the United States, is also strategic, military and security policy important for the Kingdom of Denmark, and that is why it is of course a matter of finding, we must say, the balancing approach, so that on the one hand we can secure the environment and clean up and, on the other hand, we also have strong military and security policy cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145757	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145759	I am sure that Greenland does not in any way question the security policy importance of the Americans' presence in Greenland and at all, but it does not have to be at the expense of Greenland's environment. Greenland does not, of course, have what to say, the big gains know that the Americans are present. What does the rapporteur think should be done now that the Left is in government alone? Does the rapporteur think that improvements will be possible in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145827-2	Well, I've seen there's an environmental problem with this base that was active back in the 1960s, as I remember. And there are probably other examples as well. So I recognise that this is a problem we need to resolve. Again, I just don't think it should go against the agreement we have. How we're gonna solve this and who's gonna pay the bill isn't my table. Others have to deal with that, but of course we have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145903	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments. Sorry, rapporteur! One's been put on here at the last minute. Michael Aastrup Jensen I'm just going back to the platform). That's good. Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen from Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145919	It was mentioned that there was some balance in relation to the military agreements between Denmark and the United States when talking about Greenlandic conditions. So I would like to ask about a very topical issue that has been raised in the media and especially in Denmark and Greenland, and this is about the underground bunker Camp Century. Where in the balancing column is it? What does the Left think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025145956	[Sound emission]... But then thank you for remembering, because now I've been told, Century. I am aware of that question, and so is the government, I know, and that is why we are currently trying to figure out how to resolve the situation that exists with the potential for environmental issues that are simply dangerous and which need to be cleaned up in some way. How and how this is to be done, I simply cannot give an answer because, as I understand it, that process is still going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025150028	Sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen? No. We're done here. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025150045	Thank you. First, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome our new colleague, Tórbjørn Jacobsen, from the Faroe Islands. We are certainly looking forward to working together in the Enhedslisten. We have enjoyed Tórbjørn Jacobsen's predecessor, Magni Arge, both for serious and enjoyable moments. As far as the Arctic report is concerned, I think there are a lot of good things in it. There are many activities under way, and I should just like to assure you that a great many organisations have also been set in motion in incredibly many areas. Sometimes you could get quite nervous about whether there is also some kind of common direction in all the things that are being discussed and done, but it is of course important that those that we have as representatives in the various organisations also try to coordinate things. After all, the Arctic can be of great importance in many areas. For Enhedslisten there are two important issues that we need to make clear from the outset when discussing the Arctic. First of all, what we are doing is doing for the people who live in the Arctic. It must be the main exit point. There are immensely many economic interests that are immense in military and security interests, but it must always be a question of how the people living in the Arctic will have a better life from the beginning to the end. Secondly, we must always take into account that what we are doing and what we are helping to decide always ensures that the very sensitive nature facing change due to climate change always receives very, very high priority, so that we do not destroy more than we benefit. Indeed, the Arctic is more exposed, as the temperature changes are higher in the Arctic than they are in many other places. When we look at the many organisations, I think that this is important and I think the government is also making great efforts to do so, although there are certainly areas where it could be better done to include or leave the right of negotiation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands where we can at all. It must be a fundamental principle that it is they who negotiate on behalf of the Kingdom Community every time we can get it established, because it is their living conditions and it is their area that we are working on. It is not isolated from the territory of Denmark or the Folketing. In addition to that, I sometimes wonder why so many countries that are incredibly far from the Arctic have interests here. These must be economic or security interests. Sometimes I would like one to cut it a little harder and say: the main decision-makers must be those who have shares, that is, land, in the area. As far as the continental shelf project is concerned, it is of course important that we find a solution. I have a few questions along the way, and I would ask the Minister to try to explain why, as far as I can at least understand it, the press is refusing to negotiate with the Russians. I could understand that the government would rather wait for a ruling by a court of law. Normally it is written, and also in this paper, that the Kingdom always wants to negotiate with relevant states when there are some problems and that this is the main approach. Couldn't it be interesting to try the Russians on this and find a solution that couldn't drag on, but just put the borders with the continental shelf that were necessary? Then there's the entire defense solution on the Arctic. They have many tasks, both with Search and Rescue, searching and, of course, also the sovereign claim and surveillance. I am thinking that it is important and I heard that the Socialists were on the same track that we are working with the Arctic as a nuclear-free zone and that we are actually trying to enforce it. I am thinking of Russia and the United States in particular, of course, since they have the nuclear weapons. I don't know if there's any more of them up there that have it. My personal view of our experience with the Americans on Thulebase is not entirely positive. There I would like to advocate that we make some demands on the Americans and not just say: no, we are delighted that they want a base there. It has nothing to do with nuclear weapons; it is something about the presence of some people being perceived as a security issue, but it is also a burden on Greenland. Now one can see that the fact that the service agreements did not fall into place I am not going to discuss any further here about who is responsible for it, that the problem has not been resolved yet, and that is that the revenue from Thulebasen is not guaranteed to Greenland. The teaching places for the young Greenlanders are not guaranteed either. Perhaps jobs are not, even if the new firm assures us that there should be employment opportunities. Another thing is the whole question of who it is we should have to work for the defense up there. It is actually grotesque that I only discovered when we were visiting Greenland this summer, and I asked how many of Sirius patrol's young men have a basis or were born in Greenland that the person who was in charge said: one. In all the perhaps 50 years we have been up there, there is one Greenlander who has been there. I would say, however, that I myself once applied to come with the Sirius patrol, when I was young and strong, that it is striking that it is Danes who are going up there and about to start over, whereas the Greenlanders have it in their blood, how to deal with dogs and sleds and the weather and everything up there. It was much more natural that Greenlanders were found to do those jobs first, in my opinion. I mean, if they want it. Then I completely agree with those who have criticised the lack of clean-up of Camp Century with the more there are several places up there. It needs to be cleaned up, and it is not enough just to say that yes, we are talking about that. We need to clean up, and it is the Americans who have to pay the bill, who else would do it. They're the ones who created the pollution. Then there's the whole thing about shipping and sailing. After all, it is important that we constantly focus on sea rescue. I think it is very positive that we have had a strengthening of those ships. In this context, the Marines are doing good work. Also the helicopters they bring with them. We have to make sure that they are well trimmed so that they can always solve tasks. I think it's impressive what they can solve. I have seen some of the tasks they have solved up there where ships have been in distress. It is also important that we get that charting. I think it is a scandal that the government has ideologically said that it is important to move jobs rather than to ensure that those charts were in place. You could have finished those charts, and then you could wait to move around on the board, which makes those things. It could have stayed in Copenhagen, so we were sure to have those people. I would like to hear from the Minister how far you are in this matter. Who's gonna make those cards, and when do you expect those cards to be finished? I find it very embarrassing that we have promised them to the Greenlanders and that we will not keep them. Then there is the whole climate and energy. It is also a very important area and, as I have said, people and nature are the first two priorities when it comes to doing activities in that area. There is no page entry, but under the section on climate and energy, section one, it says that the knowledge of indigenous peoples must be taken into account. I think that is a good sentence. But should we not also say that we have to count on indigenous people also having a huge need for support for efforts to provide climate and energy. This means that we will probably also have to find some money for that effort. On the whole, the environment and nature and climate are something that many organisations also work with, and I am glad they do, because one has to assume that they are doing a real, really great job. There are also conventions that need to be kept and monitored, etc. The whole big section is important work. Then there is at the bottom of the section, which deals with the environment and nature, actually on the other side of that section it is actually the last section on the environment and nature mentioned an organisation called the DCE National Centre for Environment and Energy. It's about the raw materials area. I would like to ask whether DCE was involved in the preparation of the agreement or resolution that the government made about uranium digging in Greenland when we amended the zero tolerance law and made it so that the Greenlanders can dig uranium it was something we were against. But I would like to hear: were they involved in it and involved in the assessments, and did they agree that this could be done without any problems with nature when you start digging, for example. U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U. Then I have two more questions, but I can't reach them, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151056	Thank you to the rapporteur, who will be standing, because there are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151058	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. As far as the Arctic is concerned, it is a huge issue, and we come very far and talk about both the environment and climate change and defence and all sorts of things. Therefore, it is also difficult to choose what kind of questions you really want to ask. However, I would like to agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for greater involvement of Greenlanders in defence tasks in Greenland. I myself was in Station Nord with the Defence Committee following that trip with the Greenland Committee, and I was the first Greenlander who was stationed in Station Nord met. So a greater involvement both in relation to a voluntary preparedness, but to a large extent also a paid job in Arctic Command makes very good sense. I'd like to back that up. In relation to charts, I have just come from Greenland yesterday, where I have talked to two different members of Naala Suisut, the Greenland Government, about this with a sea map and a preparedness. And I see a huge need to push and to prioritise this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151206	I can only thank you for your comments. At least there's nothing I disagree with. Because I think it is important that we have the dialogue with the Greenlandic Government, so that we can say whether it is one way or the other. For example: With the Sirius patrol and other things, I think it is important that we try to say: are there some young Greenlanders who could be interested and perhaps even get an education in defence, yes, perhaps even solve other tasks on ships. There are plenty of things to be done in the future, which is why there are a great many jobs. I think you should think that very, very carefully, so that those from Denmark who always do it do not just come and do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151251	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151252	Thank you very much. When it comes to drawing up these digital charts, it's all about safety at sea, and it's all about preventing as much as we can from Parliament's side in relation to the decisions we make. The last thing I've heard is that every member of the Spatial Data Board has chosen to resign in connection with this relocation. How can we help to ensure that the decisions taken in Denmark do not affect Greenland and the tasks to be solved for Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151325	If I had been a government, I would have canceled that move, and then I had written around to all of the employees and asked: can we get you to do a job for us for the next two years? Then we could see if within that time frame we could finish these tasks, and then some new ones could start fresh in Aalborg. I am quite convinced that, firstly, it would be the fastest way, secondly, the most effective way, because the people who have been there have a very large capacity, and thirdly, I think that when we settle the accounts in a few years' time and have to ask the Minister what the whole of that move around has cost, it will also prove to be the cheapest.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151403	Thank you. And the next brief remark is from Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151407	First of all, I would like to thank Christian Juhl for the kind greetings I received at the beginning of his speech, and then I would like to ask about this with the delegation of power. So the reason why we are here today is that Greenland and the Faroe Islands have a location in the Arctic, and not that we are in Copenhagen. For Denmark as such has nothing to do with the Arctic. Then it was said that efforts should be made to delegate as much as possible from the Danish state power to the Faroe Islands and Greenland regarding the Arctic, depending on what their interest was in the course that would come. So, there must be some structure in this delegation, otherwise it will only be on the Danish terms that the delegation will be, or on any government's terms that holds power in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151512	Thank you. I'm gonna do sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen is aware that we say Mr. and Mrs in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151520	Thank you. I agree that the delegation must be very targeted and very systematic. After all, we have a community of interests or destiny as long as we are in a community of kingdoms together. That is why we must also say that our minister would not be invited to meetings on the Arctic if it were not because Greenland and the Faroe Islands are part of the Kingdom Community. It's something that goes without saying. And that is why I would like to see the Greenlanders and the Faroes sitting at the table. At first we had some problems with that and, at least in some of the councils and committees, some fights about it. That is addressed in many places, and I think that we should tell the government together that it should be corrected where it is not corrected. We must make sure that the Faroese and Greenlanders are there. Sometimes we also have to accept that it is then in a parallel process involving meetings. At least it is a minimum that it is done where it is not possible to move around in the seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151629	Sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151631	For a large part, the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a statement on how conditions will be in the future both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, particularly in relation to the Kingdom of Denmark, which is mentioned countless times in this report. So we should be able to count on some way being taken into account as an equal partner in relation to the other independent states located in the region during the course of the negotiations that will come in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151712	Now I would prefer not to speak on behalf of the government, and I think that is something that people want rejected. What I'm saying is on behalf of the Enhedslisten. We want to work as actively on the Arctic as possible, and I think the Minister can confirm that I have pointed out the need on several occasions. He has also regularly said that here we have made the solution; here we have the Greenlanders; here we have the Faroese with us; here we have some pre-conferences and such things. And I think there's a development going on. It may happen, it is going too slowly, but then it is important that we use our North Atlantic colleagues precisely to put words on and point out precisely that in that committee, in that committee and in that council it is still lagging away. And then let's try to fight it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151755	Thank you. Don't move! Then it is Mrs Aleqa Hammond outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151800	Thank you. I would like to mention once more the presence of the Americans. The rapporteur is in favour of a clean environment, for anti-uranium extraction and too many good things that I think it is important to include in this context. The presence of the Americans, according to the Danish and US defence agreements, has made us today face the challenge that a very large part of Greenland's environment is polluted to such an extent that it is cruel conditions, it must be said; it is at least according to the latest report that we have seen in the scientific journal called Geophysical Research Letters, which demonstrates that there is a great environmental pollution in Greenland and that it has not been cleaned after itself, despite the fact that in Canada and the United States, which have been exposed to similar conditions, something has been done about it and cleaned after themselves. But as far as Denmark is concerned, nothing has happened. Does the rapporteur have anything to add about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025151912	This is not the first time we have discussed this. The last time we discussed this with the Minister, I also mentioned this area. I believe that it is the Americans who have to clean up the mess. The polluter has to clean up his mess. This must be the case in all circumstances, and especially when some people are free in the area, it has to be said that there is a double obligation to clean up. I've been following it and reading some of the articles that have been written lately about the old bases. But I also believe that we have heard the story from Thule, where it was assured that there would never be nuclear weapons, but where it was actually revealed. It was, of course, rejected initially, but later it was recognized that it was even a bomb, which we still do not know if has been found; probably the Americans have removed it. But things like that are pretty unpleasant. I would say that if I had been a Greenlander, I would have said that under these conditions we cannot have visitors in our country, and then I would have demanded some things. I also think that Greenland can rightly demand a rent of the land that is being used, and then we must jointly ensure that there is a requirement for clean-up, whether it is at Thule, or whether it is in some of the very old places.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152023	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152025	The presence of the Americans is about defending the West, but it has to be said that it has been at the expense of Greenland's environment and without giving jobs to the Greenlandic people. I do not think it should be okay for Denmark to reap the fruits of good cooperation with the United States at the expense of Greenland. You have to take responsibility and also take responsibility for what you have authorised. It's just supposed to be missing. I think that Denmark should man up and do something about the problem, so that it does not just go on talking, but is translated into action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152103	I would even go so far as to say with regard to the talks which, according to the rapporteur of the Left, are supposedly taking place between the government and the United States, that if they do not lead relatively quickly to an agreement, I believe that Denmark itself must get to grips with it and clean it up, and then they must try to put the bill where it is to be placed afterwards. At least we can't just leave things alone. I therefore believe that we have a very, very great duty, since we have made the agreements on this, to ensure that something happens, and Denmark can say there first and foremost: we will clean up and pay the bill, and then we will pass it on if we believe that we can get the Americans to pay it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152139	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the last brief remark to make to him. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152147	Thank you for the floor. I can sense that the question drive is getting bigger and bigger, the longer we get to the question line. But I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very detailed and detailed statement. As Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned just now, one might almost think that such a detailed statement could bring out the sweat on a rapporteur's forehead, and in my case that forehead is then somewhat higher than that of Mr. Christian Juhl. Nor can I help but think that it is a good thing that we are not the Foreign Minister and that we must keep track of all the many formal international cooperation agreements which only concern the Arctic, and thus also say that the Liberal Alliance also considers it quite appropriate that we should now have a debate on the state of affairs which deals exclusively with the Arctic. The environment and climate are almost of course in focus in the statement, but also health and geographical data have their very own formal international cooperation agreements with difficult names and letter abbreviations. However, this does not apply to international police cooperation in the Arctic, where I understand from the statement that there is no formal international cooperation agreement with a difficult name and a letter abbreviation. It is good to hear that it is actually possible to have informal, practical international cooperation and then even in the Arctic. We in the Liberal Alliance would very much like much more of that. In relation to the other debate at home on international police cooperation, I could not help smiling when I read the paragraph in the statement on that particular point. Perhaps the fact that the Foreign Minister had informal, practical cooperation with his Dutch colleague could result in greater preventive action in the Netherlands against an organisation such as Sea Shepherd and their activities around the Faroe Islands. As I said, more concrete and focused cooperation would be my recommendation to the government, and I would also like to identify at least one area on which I and the Liberal Alliance believe it should be focused, namely research. The Liberal Alliance believes, as I said last year in the course of the same debate, that international cooperation on Arctic research should be strengthened and that Denmark should be a driving force in making the Kingdom community a force of international Arctic research, also physically. That is why I am very much looking forward to the launch of the government's strategy in this area and to a subsequent constructive dialogue and constructive cooperation on the implementation of the strategy. I see, among other things. for me, that the government's recently launched drone strategy can get air under its wings precisely in the Arctic, perhaps even in a broad, informal and practical international cooperation, such as: in the long term, too, could be extended to cooperation on a satellite programme with a view to strengthening inter alia: navigation and communication in the Arctic regions. Nor should it be a secret that the Liberal Alliance would like to see greater economic autonomy for the Arctic parts of the empire. We therefore regard it as very positive that there is a great deal of attention to the Arctic in the world and that the government is trying to strengthen that trend, among other things. by maintaining and developing relations that can increase the opportunity for investment in the Arctic regions of the Kingdom Community. We are also very positive about the government's efforts to maintain the warm political climate in the Arctic, as developments and future investments in, among others, the Arctic. Greenland and the Faroe Islands are dependent on a future problem-free international police cooperation, by the way, unfettered by what else might happen around the world. All I have to say is that I and the Liberal Alliance take note of the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152624	Thank you. There is one person who wanted to make a brief comment, and that is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152628	Thank you very much for your contribution. I would also like to support the focus that is being called for in relation to Arctic research. It is the case that the government is going to present their strategy in relation to Arctic research, and there we also hope that a collaboration between Greenland and Denmark will be thought in, but to a large extent also think in an Arctic research hub, which IA believes should be there, so that it will be in the Arctic. That is certainly a clear message from the IA. The second concerns U-Arctic, which is a university cooperation between the various universities in the Arctic, where professors, teachers and students are exchanged. This is, of course, a very interesting forum which can help to increase the focus on Arctic research, so we certainly hope that the government will continue to support it, even in the coming years. What does the Liberal Alliance say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152732	Yes, I think the Liberal Alliance would certainly be able to support that. After all, research is one of the important parameters when we talk about securing the welfare society of the future and much more. And that is why we are also trying, to the best of our ability, to press the government to expand and increase resources for research in all areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152754	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152756	How could the rapporteur imagine cooperating in establishing an Arctic research hub in Greenland, in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152806	This is a very specific question, and I do not think that I will try to come up with or outline any concrete solutions here, other than that I will repeat that I am very much looking forward to the government presenting their strategy for this and that we in the Liberal Alliance will certainly be very constructive in the dialogue that will then take place in relation to the implementation of the government's strategy for Arctic research.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152833	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152838	A few days ago we were at a conference, one of the largest conferences on the Arctic agenda, and it was called Arctic Circle and took place in Reykjavik in Iceland. There will be thousands of people who show interest in all aspects of opportunities and trends in the Arctic regions. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the Danish kingdom is 20%. of the Arctic part, we see no interest, and we do not see our Danish colleagues present to be in the discussions and the like. I think that is really, really a pity, because we think it is really important that we stand together. After all, when we in the Arctic Council have to speak with one voice on behalf of the Kingdom Community in the form of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark, it is very difficult to find common ground sometimes for a given cause, and I also think it is quite natural to demand that involvement on Arctic issues be shown by the Folketing as well. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur what he thinks is going to happen politically from the Danish side regarding the Arctic in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025152950	As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that research is a priority area, but there are also other obvious issues which are also mentioned in the Foreign Minister's statement in relation to sea rescue, in relation to health, geographical data, etc. I believe that there are many areas where you can be very concrete and have very practical cooperation and where the government and Denmark should support Greenland and also the Faroe Islands in development.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025153024	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025153026	Over the years, the Greenlandic authorities have also made representations to the Danish changing governments around Camp Century, where changing governments have hardly lifted their eyebrows, but they have said that they do not believe that there is a great deal to come after here. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that it still applies now that we see the major reports around the world based on scientific evidence that there is nothing to retrieve here? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025153101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025153103	I have not dealt in detail with the problem of Camp Century, but I know that next week or next week we will have a conciliation meeting in which the Foreign Minister is invited to visit to make a statement on that particular issue. My hope is that, and I am sure it will happen, the Foreign Minister and the Dutch Foreign Minister's colleague will cooperate positively and constructively with the US Secretary of State and the US Government in order to resolve these problems of pollution in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025153143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Roger Mathiesen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025153159	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for a thorough and exciting statement. Developments in the Arctic are cause for optimism and concern. Events around the world undoubtedly play a major role in the Arctic, just as climate change, caused by human activity on earth and causing the ice to melt and the sea to rise, also presents new challenges in the region. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister says in his statement that strong support remains for the Ilulissat Declaration among the Arctic coastal states, where we can agree that conflicts in the Arctic are resolved through negotiations. The alternative is that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area, and I would like to take this opportunity to commend officials and politicians and all countries that have contributed to this development. That's great diplomacy. However, we must recognise that the war in Syria and the crisis in Ukraine are a cause for concern, including for developments in the Arctic, and I am deeply concerned and outraged by the Russian behaviour and possible war crimes in Aleppo. In the alternative, however, we would prefer these conflicts not to create further conflicts and militarisation in the Arctic. This is a difficult balancing approach, which I believe my colleagues also share; in other words, how far we should go in terms of condemning Russia's behaviour in Ukraine and Syria, while at the same time not creating further conflicts and militarisation of, for example, the Arctic. In this context, I am curious to hear what the Minister thinks about how Denmark can contribute to preserving the Arctic as a low-voltage area while working to prevent war crimes and aggressive behaviour elsewhere in the world. When we talk about climate change, it is gratifying to see that there are so many research projects and collaborations taking place among the Nordic countries, in the Arctic Council and in the Kingdom Community. As the Minister writes in his statement, the temperature in the Arctic rises twice as fast as the global average temperature. The sea ice is receding and conditions are changing for peoples in the Arctic. At the same time, new shipping routes, new opportunities for mining, minerals and fishing are emerging, and this actually calls for an urgent need for new solutions: monitoring the consequences of increased activity in the Arctic, monitoring pollution and new agreements that ensure that both people and the environment are sustainablely developed in the Arctic. I would like to commend the great scientific work being done, including in Greenland, to create the best possible knowledge base for us politicians to act on. A few projects that I personally have come across and will therefore highlight are Greenland Perspective, which examines the possibility of using, among other things. Nutrient mud from Greenland to tormented soils around the world. This is a good example of how the special environment in Greenland and the Arctic can be used to create a better world. There are many other good projects including extraction of unique enzymes that have interesting perspectives. However, it is important to stress that when companies and researchers extract minerals and raw materials in the Arctic, also in Greenland, this must be done in respect of the environment and for people. In the Kingdom of Denmark's Strategy for the Arctic 2011•2020• it is stated that the development must be sustainable and for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Arctic. In the alternative, we fully agree with this and we would like to call on the government to work to ensure that development is sustainable on all three bottom lines: economic, social and environmental. We must respect the right to self-determination and the concern for indigenous peoples. We must also respect international agreements and combat climate change. In this context, I would like to hear how the government thinks we find that balance. With the Paris climate agreement last year, 195 countries decided that the global average temperature should not rise by more than 2 degrees and we must work to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees. In this way, we can counteract the most catastrophic climate change. But that does not happen by itself. If we believe that climate problems have been resolved with the Paris Agreement, we can believe again. We're just getting started. One of the tools we need to combat climate change is to limit the extraction of fossil fuels. We must burn at most one third of the known reserves of oil and coal and gas, and the rest must remain in the ground. It is therefore problematic to extract and look for even more new oil and gas in the Arctic when we know that our planet cannot bear that we burn it off. I am aware that much of the resources lie within the territories of the Arctic nations, but I would nevertheless like to know what the Government and the Minister's position are on, whether the extraction and further exploration of oil and gas in the Arctic is compatible with the Paris Agreement. We cannot determine how Arctic nations and peoples act, and it is perfectly understandable, and it is also understandable, that many want to exploit the economic opportunities that arise with the withdrawal of the sea ice. However, we would like to strike a blow to ensuring that it is done in respect of the social and environmental bottom line, and oil and gas extraction does not fall within that category. In Russia there is sparing evidence of oil spills, but NGOs point out that there are huge emissions, with major consequences for the indigenous people, especially in Russia, where they have very few rights. It is devastating for nature and for human life. In this context, I would like to hear what the Government is doing in the Arctic Council to address the problems of the indigenous people, including Russia, arising from pollution and oil spills. In addition to the extraction of raw materials, the sea ice increase and also increased opportunities for industrial fishing in the Arctic. It is therefore very gratifying that the Arctic nations have reached an agreement with the aim of ensuring that no fishing takes place in the high seas of the Arctic Ocean without a management agreement. International agreements must provide a framework for boundless problems, which is why I would like to pay tribute once again to all the politicians, officials, professionals and all those who have helped to make this agreement possible. I hope that the agreement can be a lever to bring other nations into the regulation of industrial fishing in the Arctic, including the EU, Japan, South Korea, Iceland and China, which have not yet acceded to the agreement. In this context, I am curious whether the government will work for a legally binding agreement or whether it is satisfied with the current declaration. Here we must remember that fishing plays an important economic role for many indigenous peoples and the Arctic peoples. Unregulated fishing can have major consequences for the livelihood of many people. A legally binding agreement would clearly be the strongest. In the field of maritime transport, I would like to take this opportunity to commend the government and the Danish Shipowners' Association, both of which play a positive role, in order to bring about better environmental regulation of international shipping. In particular, I am thinking of the positive signals about banning heavy-duty, environmentally harmful bunker oil, which is banned in Antarctica. Denmark must at least press for a ban through the UN Maritime Organisation IMO, but I am also curious whether the government will want to work to implement the ban on the very environmentally harmful oil within the Kingdom Community's borders in the first place. In this way, Denmark can take the lead and draw other countries with it and put more pressure on the UN internationally. Finally, I would also like to hear what the Minister has in mind about how the UN's 17 sustainability objectives are integrated into Nordic and Arctic cooperation. I already know that this is a matter of great concern to the Minister. There is no doubt that developments in the Arctic create new challenges and new opportunities. We therefore hope that Denmark will continue to focus on creating economic, social and sustainable development with respect for indigenous peoples and peoples in the Arctic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154035	There was just one comment I wanted to ask you about. Sir. Roger Matthiesen says that we need to find a balance as to how much Russia should be criticised for maintaining good cooperation in the Arctic. Roger Matthiesen said. Then I just want to ask you if Mr. Roger Matthiesen believes that criticism of Russia's behaviour in Ukraine, Syria and other places where they commit atrocities should be resisted for the sake of relations in the Arctic. Is that what the alternative means? In that case, I certainly disagree very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154114	No, that's not what I and the Alternative mean at all. Once again, we are deeply concerned and greatly offended by Russia's behaviour. What we are talking about is that we really want to ask the Minister how he intends to ensure that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area, while still taking a strong and critical view of Russia's doings and barns.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154141	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov? Apostates. The next is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond (UFG).
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154147	Russia is one of the Arctic nations that are neighbouring the North Pole, which belongs to Arctic 5, and back in 2008, the Ilulissat Declaration was made, in which the five Arctic nations and neighbouring countries to the North Pole declared that the Arctic area should be a low-voltage area, and that the declaration made back in 2008. In this context, the rapporteur mentions the Russia and Ukraine crisis and also includes the Arctic in the same breath. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that the Ukraine crisis has brought about some issues worth mentioning in relation to the Arctic. If there's anyone there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154242	What I mean is that we should be aware that Russia can, in some cases, militarise conflicts, and that is what should not happen in relation to the Arctic. So it is really just a question of how, if there is a breach of international conventions, we can go out and condemn it while maintaining the Arctic as a low-voltage area.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154309	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154311	Russia, like the other Arctic nations, has submitted their submission to the Havre Commission in relation to the continental shelf, and in this context it has always been important for all the nations that are neighbouring the Arctic to comply with the Ilulissat Declaration. Does the rapporteur think that, in this context, the Ilulissat Declaration is disregarded when the rapporteur talks about military armament possibly on the part of Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154346	That's how specific I hadn't thought of it, no, so I'm gonna have to be your answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154355	Thank you, and the next brief remark is from Mr. Tórbjørn Jakobsen, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154401	Sir. Roger Matthisen mentioned something about oil spills in Russia and about fishing and sustainability, and it has been a very important task for the nation states to maintain the sustainability of fisheries, for example. within the territorial waters of each State. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Roger Matthiasen on how he intends to enforce that sustainability is maintained, as so many are responsible in the area. In other words, how can we place it in one responsibility so that we are sure that we will stick to what we intended to do when we entered into cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154505	Thank you, sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen for the question. That is a very good question, because I do not think there is a simple answer. But we have to have some negotiations between all parties, and there I hope and expect that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland will of course be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154525	Sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154527	I am just asking because it is human that where everyone is responsible is usually not responsible, and the result is that sustainability, which we agreed to put on a piece of paper, is simply not being kept in reality. That is why I believe that it will be very crucial where responsibility is placed for enforcing what we agree to cooperate on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154603	I fully agree, and I will look forward to future cooperation with the rapporteur in this area and hear your input.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154612	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025154626	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. As Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned, it is difficult to prioritise what is most important in this debate every year, because there are so many potentials, challenges, themes that could be addressed when it comes to the Arctic, both on the short and the long track, both in that light, with the floodlight that is about the commonwealth, and what is about everything that is outside the Kingdom community. So now that I choose not to mention a large number of actions in the field of environment and climate and community and cooperation, etc., it is an indication that I increasingly have the feeling that in a world order where the economy is growing • OECD expects the world economy to double within just the next 10-15 years • then the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of Denmark, that is, in the new world order we are looking into, will, if possible, become an even smaller piece than we are today. In the new world order we are looking into, Germany, England and France will be small states, simply because the economic growth we are experiencing is especially outside Europe, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, outside the United States, and therefore it is moving on the balance of power, both economically, in terms of security policy and in many other areas. When I mention that perspective in the world outside the Arctic and outside the Commonwealth, it is because it is increasingly clear to me that the three parts of the Commonwealth have the clear common interest to stand together in the New World Order, but also to seek new allies more than we do today. And when I think of where the most obvious allies exist, it is in Europe, and it is in the North. Therefore, I would like to add a few words to the potential that I still think we are too poor to exploit in order to ensure strong cooperation between the European Union and the Arctic and the Kingdom Community and between the North and the Arctic and the Kingdom Community. This is true in relation to research. Let us just take climate research, where we are perhaps the number one nation in the world in relation to pulling data from the ice sheet, in relation to analysing, and where we should be far better at making it something that the rest of the world has access to, has the opportunity to retrieve home, and which could create jobs in Nuuk and elsewhere in Greenland to a much greater extent than today, if we could build structured cooperation with each other and with the EU and preferably with the Nordic countries, for example. The Norwegians, who have a center in Trondheim, and really get excited about the research and development. This could happen under the auspices of the Arctic Council, preferably for my sake. We have one that can be said to have an equally current challenge in getting the European Union into the Arctic Council, but that is why we can at least establish cooperation in the field of research. This is true in relation to investments. I think we are all aware that investments in the Arctic region, especially sustainable investments, are not coming as quickly and as many as we would have liked. I believe that there are strong forces both in the North and in the European Union that want to commit themselves to help ensure peaceful and productive and fruitful development throughout the Arctic region, because there are obvious interests in it. This applies to security policy in the soft way. If we want to continue the whole tradition of low-intensity cooperation, talking about things, avoiding armaments in the Arctic region, then I think it is important that we make alliances with all the organisations and groups of countries that do not work militarily, but work with soft power, as it is called in New Danish, again pointing the arrow to the EU and the Nordic countries. Then there is the whole environment and there is the whole climate area in addition to research. And, of course, there is also the whole economic area, where it is about ensuring access for Greenlandic and Faroese products to the European market in as good and favourable conditions as possible, both because it benefits the Kingdom community, both Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and because it also benefits the European Union and the Nordic countries. So I would like us to put a little more energy together on that potential. Speaking of energy, it is also an area in which we could have much stronger cooperation with very great benefits. After all, we are currently considering whether the Faroe Islands and Greenland could play a role in the whole of Europe's energy supply. But we should start by having more energy at all on the potential that lies there. I sometimes think that our debates here in the Parliament on the Arctic tend to become such a little introverted in relation to the relationship between the three parts of the kingdom community instead of turning towards the world we have in common and which we have a common huge potential to get more out of if we chose to stand a little together instead of digging around in our mutual relationships as much as we have the habit of doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155150	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155156	Thank you, and thank you for such a little visionary thoughts about this work. I think that is extremely important and there were a lot of good things I agreed with. The Nordic and Nordic Councils do a lot of work in this area and also take many initiatives • Nordforsk and others have just been mentioned in this statement as an example of how it can be done. Quite a few of the things the rapporteur wanted are in fact in the Nordic Council, whereas I think you could yell a little at the European Union and say: how could you trim yourself to be a better co-player? In other words, where I have seen the European Union meddling in Arctic issues, they closed the ports to the Faroe Islands because it was impossible to negotiate a fish solution. I mean, you threw the cousins right in the hands of the Russians, and that wasn't a very pretty sight. Should there not be a little warming up within the European Union before they are able to carry out tasks in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155256	In fact, I think it is right that we could go more to the European Union in this area and that the European Union should be reminded of how much interest we have in this whole area. If we are to apologise for the European Union a little, it is, of course, because, as such, there is only one Arctic Member, at least, of Arctic 5 in the European Union, and that is Denmark, so here we have a very special obligation to be also those who bring the Arctic, if I may say so, into the European Union, and to make it clear to those who may live a little further away from the Arctic than we do why it is of vital European interest. And yes, there is a potential for that. As far as the Nordic countries are concerned, I agree that at least a lot of programmes have been put in place, but if, for example, we are going to do so. If I take what I think is the greatest potential of all, namely greater cooperation between Trondheim and Nuuk in relation to the whole area of climate research, much is said, but, as far as I am aware, not so much has been done, and it is not necessarily the fault of the Nordic Council, but perhaps so much of the two responsible governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155354	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155356	Thank you. I also agree that if the European Union could contribute something more, it would be fine. What I have always thought is that it is important that we take it under the two conditions, namely that it is the people who live in the Arctic for whom we must be given priority and that it is the nature and climate that are in the Arctic that we must take into account. In the first place, we should ask: what can we do to help them get a better life in the great upheavals that come in these years? And then in the next round we can say: if we can help with something that can also benefit, then that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155431	I don't see it as such a zero-sum game. In other words, I see it as if ensuring sustainable development in all the meanings of the word, both environmentally, socially and economically, is something that stronger cooperation between the European Union and the Nordic region could contribute to the great benefit and happiness of both the people who live in the Arctic, for nature and, I hope, for those who then participate in the cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155455	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155501	Now that we agree that the Arctic is of great importance and that the Commonwealth is important, as I know Mr. Martin Lidegaard also thinks that we can count on the Radical Left to support us in getting more resources for the defence effort in the Arctic. We have a number of tasks that are not being adequately solved today. We don't have a good enough rescue team, and environmental preparedness isn't that good either. It is not a question of militarisation in the Arctic, but simply a question of increased traffic up there, and thus we probably need to spend a little more resources on the tasks that the defense solves up there. It takes some money, and that is why I would like to know where the Radical Left stands when we have to negotiate defence settlements next year and we have to give priority to these resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155549	I must say that it is a great pleasure to be able to say that we are probably writing such a tiny piece of Danish history here, because a conservative rapporteur is asking a radical whether we want to spend more money on defence in the Arctic, and the answer is: yes, we are ready for that. In fact, we have said quite precisely in our own defence policy proposal that this is one of the areas we would like to give priority to in the next defence settlement. Where the waters will then separate, whether this is something that should happen, by giving a little more priority to other areas of defence, or by adding extra resources to the defence as a whole. But precisely in this area, we have said that we are ready to deploy a little more resources, both in terms of fleet capacity, preparedness and the areas that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155632	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155634	Now we are moving so little at the edge of the statement here, but I think I have to follow it up by asking Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who is also a radical defence rapporteur, about where to cut down, because he must then have some answer to that. That makes me a little worried, and although I was happy with the first part of the answer, that is to say that you would like to spend more money on defence activities in the Arctic, of course I did not like the second part of the answer, which was that some other places would have to be cut. Where, then, does the radical saber fall?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155703	It may be a little too far to go into detail, but the main elements are that we believe that we can still find administrative savings, which I know is also a conservative view, in defence, plus that we believe that the time when Denmark sent out very large military contributions in the form of personnel broadcasts with boots on the ground, as it says, to Afghanistan, for example. and Iraq, hardly coming back in the foreseeable future. So these are some of the areas we look at when we have to finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155738	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155741	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for an inspiring presentation. I would also like to commend the rapporteur for having a vision in his presentation. It's refreshing. In relation to being a Greenlandic MP, one of the things I said during the election campaign was that it is a place both in relation to Denmark, but also equally in relation to the rest of the world, from a Greenlandic perspective. That is why I think that the whole idea of a common foreign policy with trade policy is really interesting and something that might be interesting to pursue. In relation to this venture to be in the shoes, to dare to take an initiative in relation to the developments that you expect to happen in the Arctic, I think it could be very interesting, as long as we are in a kingdom community, to go together and see what that potential is and how we can exploit that potential together, even when we talk about investments. Something else is that it is important that the initiative also comes from Greenland. It is important that Greenland and also take the lead in this development, and that Greenland has some visions, in terms of what growth we want and how that growth should take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155850	In fact, I very much agree with all the observations made by Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. I think that if this is to succeed, it is a very important prerequisite that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands find out where it is they think they can make the most of it. And then I think that Denmark should be a little less concerned about perhaps inspiring that debate. However, I agree that it would be best if the initiative came from Greenland and the Faroe Islands themselves in those areas where they can see a potential for cooperation in relation to the rest of the world. So I hope that will just happen, and here the ball is also slightly played back to our Greenlandic and Faroese members of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155935	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025155937	Thank you. I will also pass the ball on to Greenland and, of course, try to bring the debate up there. After all, the rapporteur has also been a foreign minister, and some of the points on which cooperation could be drawn up are, among other things, those of us. in relation to the Export Council and the joint creation of business promotions. Among other things: is currently making a business promotion in Taiwan or is going to do this next week. Are there any other areas in which cooperation could be envisaged in relation to the linking of foreign policy and trade policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160013	For me, there is no doubt that the promotion of exports is a very concrete thing that is straightforward. I think it is also the case with the attraction of foreign investment. There I believe it on some lines, at least if it is large investments and they are long-term, it is easier to convince foreign investors that they can and should invest money if it is a joint effort by several of the community's parties simply because it increases the impression of stability. So you may think that is right or wrong. It's just my own experience. I was quite lucky with the then President-in-Office of the Council, I think, to have some good conversations with foreign governments at times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160057	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160101	Greenland has the right to negotiate on all domestic matters, including trade with other countries outside Denmark. Having said that, the rapporteur mentions that the European Union is an important platform for all of us in the Kingdom Community. But Greenland, in terms of its OCT status, has quite different interests in terms of our cooperation with the European Union, and that is what we see at the moment. That is why Greenland and Denmark's line as far as our policies for the European Union are concerned is not always the same. The rapporteur mentions that we must unite in the Kingdom community on certain matters and seek allies. That is what the rapporteur said in his introduction. I would like to ask what concrete ideas are behind such a statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160200	It is true that it is not everything that Greenland and Denmark agree on in relation to the European Union. It is just as true that it is not everything we disagree on, and one of the things I have at least noticed that Greenland and Denmark have tried to promote at many different times is to provide greater research resources and greater investment to Greenland. At least there we have something that we have a common interest in promoting and where I believe that a greater focus, a greater awareness of the potential of the Arctic region, could be tried jointly rather than separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160240	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160242	Camp Century is an area which is becoming more and more international in terms of research in the Arctic as well. The rapporteur himself has been Foreign Minister and, in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, he received an official announcement from Greenland that there was great concern about pollution in Greenland ■ the greatest environmental disaster in the history of the Kingdom Community. There the Foreign Minister came out and said that it was not considered to be of such importance that it would be approached by the United States. Does the rapporteur still have the same position?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160325	New things have recently emerged with regard to the whole complex that Mrs Aleqa Hammond is asking about, which makes it quite appropriate for me to have the studies now under way. Let me just put it bluntly: if it is the way you can get the impression, but on which I would like to have a little more documentation, then the clean-up that is needed is, of course, not a task that should hang on to Greenland, let alone the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160359	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160401	Thank you. And thank you for a visionary speech. I fully agree that these debates can sometimes get lost in internal fibers instead of turning outwards. The former minister, as the rapporteur is, said that we should put more energy and turbo on improving our relations with other countries. I can only agree with that. That is, for example, the case. so that the Faroe Islands probably have the worst agreement with the European Union, which exists throughout Europe; we have 25 per cent. customs duties on all processed goods. There is a very great need to do something about it, because as it is now, there is no investment in the Faroe Islands because you cannot sell the goods to Europe. Does the rapporteur think that we have been too poor to tell the good story to the European Union that we have been too poor to communicate to the European Union, that the European Union has an advantage in having a close relationship with the Faroe Islands? Does he simply think that it is a lack of energy that means that we have come as short a way as we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160502	In fact, I sincerely believe that the diplomats we each have in Brussels and together have fought a very, very great battle to safeguard both Faroese and Greenlandic interests in Brussels. I understand that the agreements reached in the Faroe Islands are still not entirely satisfactory, but they are probably more an expression of the fact that the Faroe Islands are, if you may say so, a third country, as are all sorts of other third countries. I think it is fair to say that the Faroe Islands will receive better treatment than if you had not been in the Kingdom Community, but I fully agree that we should continue to do everything we can together to create even better trade agreements for both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And that's also one of my thoughts: if you raised the bar a little and said to the EU: Listen, we would really like to invite you in research efforts and investment efforts... then the possibility of making better agreements for the Faroe Islands and Greenland is probably also greater.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160610	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025160632	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a fine statement. After all, the Arctic and especially the Commonwealth are a priority area for the Conservative People's Party. It is heartblood for us that we have a good cooperation with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and that we have a good and strong kingdom community. Nor can we escape the fact that this is an area which we will have to give more priority in the coming years. It will probably also have to cost a little more resources, because there are a number of tasks that we would like to be able to do better in the Arctic. You can divide it into two points. First there is cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. After all, we have a very proud Kingdom Community that we are very pleased about, and there we believe that the goal for us must be that we can constantly develop and adjust the cooperation in the Kingdom Community to ensure that it benefits all three countries in the Kingdom Community. This is the only way to preserve a voluntary community, as the Kingdom Community is, by all the parties involved in it feeling that it is beneficial to them. At the moment that the kingdom community does not benefit either Denmark, Greenland or the Faroe Islands, it will fall apart. So if we are to preserve it, we must always ensure that it benefits all three parties. We believe that there is a great deal we can work together on. I quite agree with that, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard said earlier, that in a large world there is no need to fragment it even more, but we must stand together in the Kingdom community and there are a whole range of areas where we can be better at exploiting synergies in the fields of culture, education, fisheries, trade, research and a whole range of other areas. We should be able to get more out of each other there. What is important is therefore that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are involved in the right way as much as Greenland and the Faroe Islands want. Here, too, I feel it is important for the four North Atlantic members to be involved in, for example, defence reconciliations and other agreements that are of great importance to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I know that it is sometimes felt that Denmark decides too much in the Kingdom community, and this is a challenge which, of course, exists because Denmark is so much larger in population terms than Greenland and the Faroe Islands. When you are 100 times larger than the other two countries individually, it is of course clear that Denmark will fill relatively much in that cooperation, but it is important that it is not perceived in this way that it is Denmark that decides Greenland and the Faroe Islands, because it is not the intention with the community. The intention is that it should be equal partners who make decisions together and jointly. I could see that Greenland and the Faroe Islands were more often in charge of the cooperation we have. You do that sometimes. Sometimes it is people from Greenland and the Faroe Islands who negotiate on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark, and it is quite natural that when it comes to areas that are exclusively important to Greenland and the Faroe Islands and do not really have any significance for Denmark, it must of course be the case that the Greenlandic and Faroese interests are taken on board, and thus it must also be the case that Greenlanders and forefathers are put at the forefront of the negotiations. You could also go further. For my sake, you could have a Greenlandic or Faroese Minister for Foreign Affairs or Minister for Fisheries or something else one day. There's nothing wrong with that. There are no real limits to how much Greenland and the Faroe Islands could be at the head of the Commonwealth and thus of the government, which is actually the government of the Kingdom and not just a purely Danish government, even if we refer to it this way on a daily basis. In relation to the economy of the Kingdom, that is not the important thing, because Denmark is not talking about large amounts of money. For Greenland, the block grant is a fairly large proportion of Greenland's economy, for the Faroe Islands rather less, and for Denmark it is quite small amounts, which, overall, are similar to Denmark's Radio's budget or something like that. If you have to choose between having Denmark's Radio or having a kingdom community, we know what we prefer. Of course, that's the last of it. So we do not think that the economy is as important in relation to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but I would say that I look forward to if the Faroe Islands' economy continues to thrive as well as it currently does, to receive block grants from the Faroe Islands to Denmark soon if the Faroe Islands become richer than Denmark. In relation to international cooperation outside the Kingdom Community, that is to say with other nations in the Arctic, we think it is very important that we maintain a good climate of cooperation with Russians, Americans, Canadians and Iceland • so I don't know if I have forgotten anyone, I don't think that borders the Arctic. After all, we agree with what other rapporteurs have said here, namely that we must avoid the militarisation of the Arctic region. That is why, of course, we are not seeking a conflict with Russia in the Arctic. Nor do we urgently need to arm military forces, that is, combat forces, in the Arctic. We have a need to equip with monitoring capabilities and environmental capabilities, but we do not have a need to equip with fighter planes or with the army in Greenland or the Faroe Islands. These are not areas that are under military threat in any way. The only really important military objective that is in the Arctic is probably Thule Base, and we have to assume that the Americans themselves will be able to defend it, since it is their base. So we must preserve a demilitarised area and we must ensure that we can cooperate, although we are very, very critical of what Russia is doing elsewhere. Although we do not want to put our hands on Russia's monstrous policy at the moment, where they have begun to invade countries in Eastern Europe without being in any way threatened themselves and where they bomb civilians in Syria etc., we still want to have a dialogue with the Russians. We would like us to be able to work together in those areas where it makes sense to work together in the Arctic. Here, as I think I have mentioned, the emergency services and environmental preparedness are something that needs to be given much more priority. As I am informed, we do not have a sufficient rescue capability to handle if, for example, a cruise ship goes down in the Arctic. Then we will not be able to save all passengers. We simply do not have enough capacity for the very large cruise ships, of which there are more and more, and there is potentially a new Titanic disaster if we do not have a better rescue response. We simply need to get this straight. This is also a prerequisite for tourism to thrive in the area, which means a lot to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In my view, environmental preparedness is not good enough either. If there is a major oil spill in the area where there is more and more shipping, then we do not have sufficient preparedness to deal with such a potential environmental disaster. These are some areas we think we should be able to give better priority to. It must be of high priority for the Kingdom community to be able to handle such tasks, and I therefore see it as a bottom-up task that we are given more funding to Arctic Command and to the other authorities who may have some tasks in the Arctic. I therefore see among other things. much to the negotiations on the next defence settlement, where this will certainly be one of the very important elements of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161509	We have a few brief comments to make. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161516	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on his commitment to issues relating to the Arctic, to the extent that Greenland is, in fact, very positive in favour of a close dialogue and involvement of Greenland. So even if we do not necessarily always agree, we can at least have a dialogue. Compared to this one with equality, you mention the size of the population. One could also turn it around and say that as far as the geographical size is concerned, Greenland is far larger than Denmark, 50 times larger than Denmark, and that is precisely why I think it is very important to stick to the principle of promoting equality, which is both in the constitution, in relation to the fact that we are members of parliament on an equal footing, but also in relation to what the self-government law says about promoting equality. So I think that is an important principle to hold on to. In relation to the tasks of defence in the Arctic in the future, a large number of recommendations are being made, and we in the IA believe that it is absolutely essential to ensure that local people are involved in the tasks that need to be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161625	Thanks for the rose. I am very pleased that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen can feel that my heart beats for Greenland, because it does. I'm very, very excited about Greenland, and I've just been up there • I've been up there many times. And I think it is really important that we have a better dialogue with Greenland so that there is not so much distance, at least mentally. And equality is what we need. It is quite true that Greenland is the 12th largest country in the world, as far as I remember, and Denmark without Greenland is quite a small country. I do not know exactly where we are on the ranking list, but we are among the smaller countries in the world at least. And the opposite is true of the population. In the context of political cooperation, it is clear that, as the government of the Kingdom is located in Copenhagen and the Folketing is the supreme authority, etc., it is always a challenge to ensure that Greenland does not feel that decisions are made over their heads. And there we have a very important task that I could talk about at a very long time, but I am not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161735	That's right. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161738	To follow up the rapporteur's suggestion that it could in principle be a Greenlandic Foreign Minister, I would say that earlier in the election campaign IA has proposed that we have an Arctic minister. So that proposal is certainly on the table here. In relation to rescue and environmental preparedness, there are a large number of experiences in Greenland that are very important to take along, and this is in relation to everything from Greenland Oil Spill Response to the police reserve officers and the fire department, which also has a lot of experience in using volunteers. So I believe that using the experience that is, with voluntaryness in Greenland, also in the areas that lie up against what the defence is supposed to solve forward-looking in the Arctic, is extremely important in the forward-looking work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161819	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161821	I agree with both. I think that the idea of an Arctic minister is a good one and I note that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has now signed up as a candidate. I think that's exciting. In relation to voluntary work, I also know that this is something that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is very concerned about. We have been writing about this a little together over the last few days in relation to the hearing on the Arctic that we are about to have in the Defence Committee. And I fully agree that we need to do something more for that. In the field of defence, with which I work most, it is certainly very obvious that we should involve the local population more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161859	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025161904	The rapporteur uses words such as "good" and "strong" community and also uses words such as "equal" partners in the community. When we look at the Kingdom community from the angle of Greenland, we have a slightly different attitude towards it. We do not see ourselves as equal partners, and we do not think that this is a good and strong Kingdom community, as the rapporteur refers to. Greenland and the Faroe Islands are preparing their own constitution and there is a desire for independence and there is a desire for more involvement in many ways, as the rapporteur also calls for. Denmark has made a declaration with Greenland, called the Itilleq Declaration. That statement is based on Denmark having to involve Greenland at all times when foreign and defence policy issues are being discussed, or when there are other negotiations that have to do with the Arctic and Greenland. Denmark does that very, very rarely. I would like to ask the rapporteur: when you talk about involvement in a proper way, what is meant by it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162017	I am fully aware that there is the view in Greenland that one does not feel that one is being involved enough, and I think this is very regrettable and devastating for the Kingdom community. I do not believe that the Kingdom community could survive if Greenland feels that decisions are being taken over the head of Greenland and that one is not being involved and taken into account. And there it is the task of the Danish Government to ensure that the Greenlanders are involved and heard as much as possible. I guess I don't have much of a chance to make sure that happens. I think it must be the government and the ministers who have to answer how to do it better, but I can only express my full agreement that this is the way it should be. When it comes to expressing whether we are partners or family, I would like to say that I think partners sound so business-oriented, so I would prefer to say that we are a family, because I think there should be more between us than just such a cold trade relationship and economic relations. That's not what this is about for us. It's about seeing Greenland and the Faroe Islands as something we belong with culturally and familyly, and that we have some close ties together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162133	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162135	•Indrage and be heard• are very important words that were used. At the moment, Denmark is following the EU line as regards whales, Great Whales, in the Kingdom community. One would like to make a sanctuary for whales, i.e. a protected area in the south of the North Atlantic, which Greenland and the Faroe Islands are directly opposed to. But you have heard Greenland, and you have involved Greenland, but you have two different opinions. Nevertheless, Denmark chooses to follow the EU line. What can the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162214	The Minister will have to answer that question. I am not fully aware of what the Danish position is in relation to exactly the problem of the area of whales. In principle, I believe that when it comes to whaling, it is Greenland's interests that the Danish Government must take care of. Denmark itself has no interest in whaling, and that is why the government of the Kingdom, which we often refer to as the Danish Government, must fight for Greenland's interests when you sit in such negotiations. What law is then vis-à-vis the European Union, I expect the Minister to do so in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162258	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162301	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech where there wasn't much anxiety. The speech was very much about the kingdom community, not just about the Arctic, and the touch was so small that the rapporteur said what I think no one else has said, namely that he was looking forward to the day when the Faroe Islands were richer than Denmark, because then the Faroe Islands would of course have to pay block grants to Denmark. That's a fine perspective. Of course you have to take it up if that situation arises. Actually, it's already there. GDP per head population has almost always been higher in Denmark than in the Faroe Islands, but right now, today, GDP per head is higher in Denmark than in the Faroe Islands. But it is so that Denmark, as it is now, pays block grants to a nation where GDP per head of population is actually higher in the Faroe Islands than it is in Denmark. population with the block grant is a tiny bit higher than it is in Denmark. It is such a fundamental discussion that we can take when we have the debate on the Commonwealth later, but it was just a comment on what the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162412	This is interesting, and it was also the impression I got when I was in the Faroe Islands this summer, where we talked a lot about the economy. And there is something absurd about this: you have to pay money to the Faroe Islands if the Faroes are richer than the Danes. This does not make much sense, because in my view, the block subsidy is at least based on solidarity. Just as we have an equalisation within Denmark that the rich municipalities give to the poor municipalities, I have always considered it absolutely natural that richer Denmark pays to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. But it is only fair, of course, if it is the case that Denmark is actually richer. Now we must not abolish the block subsidy overnight, because I assume that there are a lot of things in the Faroe Islands that are based on a certain predictability in the economy, so it is not the case that we are abolishing it with a fingertips. I also know that the Faroese economy is swinging quite a bit, and right now you are very high up in the business cycle, and congratulations on that. I welcome how well things are going in the Faroe Islands. I think it is very good to see the zeal and the success of the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162522	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162525	Yes, let's take it: Well, what's the block subsidy for a size? I have often missed that discussion here in Things, I have to say, that is, the thing about giving, and then you are at peace with it, and you go into the discussion about what kind of size it is, what the idea of that is, what the ideological idea behind the block subsidy is. So let us take that discussion when we have the debate on the Kingdom Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162547	We do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162549	Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162552	In order to stay in the Arctic, I would like to take up the thread from Sjúrður Skaale and just say that the issue is that GDP per head of population. capital in the Faroe Islands is higher than in Denmark. In addition, I can say that the debt of the Faroese Home Rule Government is much less per year. population than the national debt of Denmark per capita. citizen. Therefore, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party whether the Conservative People's Party might make a proposal to dismantle block subsidies to the Faroe Islands, because there is no argument whatsoever for transferring this money anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162642	No, we're not going to suggest that. If we had had Frank Dalgaard in our party still gone, he might have thought of suggesting it, but I will not suggest that, I can guarantee, because, as I also said, the economy is not important to us. We do not think this is very much money, and if this is important for the Faroe Islands, it is not we who are going to take the initiative to propose that it be removed. But if the Faroese side makes the proposal, then we will look at it. I respect the fact that the Faroese side has long held the view that it would like to have the block subsidy reduced as far as possible. In fact, I think that is a very positive and responsible position, and I think that is a good one. But no, we are not going to propose that we abolish the block subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162728	Sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen? Then we have no further comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025162750	Thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome our new North Atlantic Member, Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen, warm welcome here in the Folketing. I look forward personally and on behalf of IA to a good cooperation. I'm sure we'll get that. Earlier this year, Arctic Winter Games was held in Nuuk, and it is the largest event ever held on Greenlandic soil, and it is an event that was very much carried by a lot of skilled volunteers. The song for Arctic Winter Games was •We are the Arctic • of the Greenlandic band Small Time Giants, and the song helped to emphasise that the unity across the Arctic must be in focus, and it was not least a message that we, the people of the Arctic, constitute the Arctic. Therefore, we also believe in Inuit Ataqatigiit that Greenland should have its own Arctic strategy, just as we also look forward to including Greenland in the evaluation of the Kingdom's Arctic Strategy 2011-2020. The Arctic is among other things. the many natural resources, both living and living, and not least human capital. Over 4 million people live in the Arctic, and we must therefore always remember the human dimension when we talk about the Arctic. This is true both when we talk about Arctic research, Arctic defence and Arctic industrial development. In particular, in the current political discussions on the future solution of defence in Greenland, I believe that it is absolutely essential to involve the local population to a much greater extent than in the past. Here we see a lot of human capital from Greenland, which has not so far been sufficiently involved in the tasks of defence in the Arctic. The monitoring and enforcement of sovereignty by the defence is simply not satisfactory today, and efforts must be stepped up in the coming years, and here the citizens of Greenland must be thought of as a resource. Similarly, Greenland's members of the Defence Committee must also be thought of as a resource in the forthcoming defence conciliation negotiations on precisely Greenland and the Arctic. I recently spoke to a plenary session at the Arctic Circle conference in Iceland, where 2 000 people from 50 different countries attended. Arctic Circle has grown great year by year, just as the global interest in the Arctic is still growing. The political interest is emphasized by the many observing countries of the Arctic Council, while economic interests in the Arctic include: will be reflected in Guggenheim's Arctic Foundation and in the new investment opportunities in the European and Nordic investment banks • new interests and new investment opportunities, which Naalaksususut should be much more grasped and transformed into concrete development for the benefit of Greenland. In a still globalised world, we are more connected than ever, and that is why I also believe it is crucial that Greenland opens up to the rest of the world, is open to new partnerships and new opportunities that a global world economy creates. In order to take an active part in globalisation and a global world economy, Greenland needs strong international partnerships, not least in order to create business development. Fishing in Greenland is still barely 90 per cent. of Greenland's exports. The mackerel, which is a brand new species of fish in Greenland waters, is now the third largest export product in the fisheries sector. This is one of the positive examples of new sources of income for Greenland that we have seen over the last few years, but, because there is one but, together with the raw materials projects, fishing is also extremely sensitive to world market prices. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we believe it is important that we create a strong and solid economy that can stand more stable on all four business pillars: fisheries, raw materials, tourism and land-based industries, including innovation and entrepreneurship. It is about growth for tomorrow's generations, it is about growth for the future welfare of Greenland, for schools, for strong health care and help for the well-being of those families who need a boost in the right direction • growth in the Arctic and growth in investment in education for our young people, so that society is constantly in momentum and the future looks brighter generation by generation. That is why Inuit Ataqatigiit calls on the government to continue supporting the university cooperation UArctic, of which we are beginning to see the results. The conditions for sustainable growth include: better and cheaper internet. It is about a stronger infrastructure that can connect Greenland and at the same time open Greenland up to the rest of the world. One of the things that I think we should pay close attention to is creating a higher level of education in Greenland so that we can help create new business opportunities. It is important that some local jobs are created and that a large part of the added value takes place in Greenland. Through international investment and partnerships, we can create a stronger welfare society so that we can deliver a socio-economic and humanly stronger society to future generations. That is why I am also pleased that the Arctic Council is actively working on environmental protection and sustainable development, for example. in the Working Group on Sustainable Development in the Arctic. Inuit Ataqatigiit will therefore also encourage the government to ensure and prioritize a full environmental cleanup in Greenland at former military facilities, among others. at Camp Century, which has previously been mentioned, so that you also get swept by your own door before going out into the world and promoting yourself in relation to environmental clean-up. I would like to commend the Americans' focus on strengthening the economy and living conditions in the Arctic in their presidency of the Arctic Council, but in relation to the Arctic statement that we have ahead of us, I would like to see more details of the concrete results of this work, because that is where our focus should be. Last week I was in Uummannaq in North Greenland, where I was among others. spoke to the local Greenlandic tourist operator, who said that the dog sled season in the last few years is the map down to now only 11⁄2 months. Where the sea around Uummannaqøen 10 years ago froze into October, it now freezes until February. This development, of course, has a significance in terms of dog sleding, but it also has a commercial significance in terms of getting on catch and getting out to the settlements that are around Uummannaq. We, the people of the Arctic, are used to adapting. We have adapted to the changing harsh climate for many years, and in the Arctic we find that temperature increases are happening at double speed compared to the rest of the world. Inuit Ataqatigiit advocates that Greenland should have a holistic adaptation plan in relation to climate change. In this way, we can help people, businesses and education to adapt to a new reality which we are constantly experiencing and which is still in development and change. Climate change poses challenges for traditional industries, but it also brings new opportunities. Inuit Ataqatigiit also believes that Greenland should contribute and commit internationally to reducing further man-made impacts on the climate of the planet. Greenland should accede to the Paris Agreement and the necessary growth in Greenland can easily take place in a sustainable way so that we do not burden the climate. Let us take the lead in the development of sustainable tourism and sustainable green businesses, where local jobs and local solutions are at the forefront. Sustainable tourism is about a low burden on the environment and local culture, while at the same time contributing to generating income for the local population. Nanu Travels from Ittoqqortoormiit in North Greenland has just won an award for sustainable tourism, involving local people and helping to create local jobs. In line with the development of the tourism industry in Greenland and an increasing activity in our waters, it is also important to comment on the government's priorities regarding the preparation of Greenlandic charts. As you know, updated and modern digital charts contribute to increased safety at sea in Greenland waters, and that the government has now reached the decision to postpone the political agreement between Greenland and Denmark on the supply of charts, is under all criticism, because maritime safety helps to support safe and sustainable business development in Greenland. Research can also contribute greatly to a sustainable Arctic future. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we advocate that Greenland actively uses and develops national and international research, which is already taking place today. With the establishment of an international research hub in Greenland, we can strengthen the Greenlandic research environment by anchoring research locally in Greenland, while thinking about skills development and local jobs. If the majority of research were to take place in the Arctic, in fact where it should be anchored, we believe that this is something worth fighting for from the IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025163812	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025163817	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is touching on an issue that we have been discussing for some time now: environmental clean-up after military presence. I fully agree that this is an important area, but would the rapporteur not agree with me that back on 18 December 2012 Mr. Nick Hækkerup and the selfgovernment government in Greenland a decision that the autonomy should come up with a concrete list of the places where it was thought that it should be cleaned up after the Danish defence? There was a deadline at the end of 2013. Now we are at the end of 2016, and the announcement is that there has still not been a list from the self-government. Would the rapporteur not agree that it is quite difficult to keep accusing the Danish Government of so-called hurry in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025163912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025163915	It is the case that immediately after this agreement was concluded, elections were held in Greenland. At that time, it was IA that led Naalaksuisut, the Greenlandic government, but after the election it was then Siumut who became government-leading in Greenland. So I can only regret that the matter has not been followed up. I think it is really, really a pity that Greenland has not solved its part of the task in ensuring that there is environmental clean-up in Greenland. Because if there is a point where we have slept per hour, I certainly think that is something to look at in Greenland. I can only pass the ball there to Naalaksuisut.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025163954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025163957	That's exactly my point. Now we have now spent quite a long time listening to certain rapporteurs who have tried to shift responsibility for this to the Danish Government, but is it not more, as the rapporteur mentioned here at the end, really the Greenland Government of Self-Government, which has a responsibility? Because, as I said, we have not had an answer, and it is three years since we should have had it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164020	If only the world were so simple and if only you could set things up so simple, but it's not like that. We can actually have a fundamental discussion about the 32 areas Denmark is dealing with on behalf of Greenland, because that is what this is all about. Who is responsible for the initiative? And if nothing happens in a matter where you have an agreement, then there is nothing to prevent you from grabbing Naala Suisut and pointing it out. I also think that the Danish Government has a very great responsibility to ensure environmental clean-up at former military bases where agreement has been reached with the Americans or where environmental pollution has been caused.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164102	Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164105	Thank you. Now I have been sailing as a captain in Greenland for 20 years, and when Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentions that the fishing period in Uummannaqfjord has been reduced to one and a half months, I can only confirm that the usual 20 years ago was that one could enter the city in May and June and after 1 November it was over. This means that a great deal has happened in the area of climate change. I would therefore like to ask whether, in the Arctic region or where the Inuit communities live, let me put it this way, we have done something further to organize ourselves together between the countries that are so close to the North Pole, to resist or be part of the fight against what is about to be a meltdown, especially in Greenland, because there we see it better than anywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164206	Thank you for a relevant question. I am a representative of the Danish Parliament on the Committee on Arctic parliamentarians, where you have among other things. discussing how to cooperate on some common Arctic issues, and I have not seen anything concrete. Some of the issues that have been discussed include: the need for us to make local or national adaptation plans, and there I think that Greenland should be one of those who takes the lead in relation to the fact that climate change is so obvious to us that we also need to be involved. I think that we are actually very good at adapting, as I mentioned in the speech, but I think we can be better at seeing what it looks like in 10 or 20 years' time, for example, and how climate change will have affected business opportunities in Greenland. In relation to indigenous peoples, I also think it is important to remember that Greenland is indeed a role model for many Arctic indigenous peoples. We were some of the first to achieve self-government and have great political autonomy, and that is why I think it is also an obligation to take the lead and to take initiatives precisely when one is so strong in relation to other Arctic indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164320	There's the charts. The issue of the charts is an old problem, I can just say from my own experience, and I do not think that one shot has been shot in Greenland waters for the last 30-35 years. So the situation is not good and it is getting much worse now that the Arctic Ocean is getting bigger due to the meltdown of the ice. Can Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen tell me what the reason for the government's delay in getting the charts updated?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164400	Thank you very much. After all, it is Geodatastyrelsen who has moved from Copenhagen to Aalborg and where all the employees have chosen to resign in that move, and so it is necessary to do so, but it only directly affects Greenland, and I think it is extremely regrettable that we are in a situation where we have been waiting for these charts for so many years now, and that this relocation means that we are in fact breaking the agreement that they should be finished in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164428	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164430	Thank you. I heard that the Left rapporteur tried to wash his hands and say that it was not their fault that Greenland has not been cleaned up. It is the case that the government always has the obligation and the right of initiative, so I think it is about getting out of the holes and getting started. I would also like to hear about the rapporteur's view of the presence of the military in the Arctic. I fear that when the great powers are there, they will also have weapons, ships, aircraft and perhaps nuclear weapons in the Arctic. How do the people who live in the Arctic view that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164509	I think it is important, when we talk about the Arctic and the interest in the resources in the underground and in the sea around Greenland, that it is precisely the people who have to participate, it is the people who have to be involved in the decision-making processes, it is the people who have to be involved in the creation of jobs and business opportunities so that they take an active part in that development. On uranium, I would say that IA is against uranium extraction and exports. Again I would like to say about being a role model for sustainable development in the Arctic that Greenland in particular should take the lead and show the way for how to create it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164554	I understand that there are people working for us to resume the debate in the Nordic Council on the Nordic Region as a nuclear-free zone and expand it and say that it should be the entire Arctic that is nuclear-free as a step towards a nuclear-free globe. It's been going on for a few years, and I guess it's time for someone to do something. Now there's a really, really good occasion, especially when we're talking about the Arctic. How does the rapporteur view this position?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164622	I look forward to those discussions. In general, I think it is important that the debate should take place first and foremost in Greenland. Unfortunately, we see that there is a majority in favour of uranium extraction and exports. But I still think there is a need for this referendum and that in some way a broad political consensus is ensured as to which way Greenland should go and what Greenland should live on in the future. It is a pity that we are digging ditches instead of building bridges between the political differences that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164656	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164659	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I also have to address the rapporteur of the Left in relation to the disclaimer of responsibility, which is implicit in the comments there. I think that is unfortunate, and I think that we should, first and foremost in the Kingdom community, get something done by cleaning up after Camp Century. In this context, I would like to hear: has the rapporteur been invited into the dialogue that the government is currently holding with the United States??
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164732	We have not received any invitation to participate in a dialogue on this with Camp Century, so I shall not be able to say what is going on with dialogue on it. On the part of the IA, we would like full environmental clean-up to take place. I also think it is important to remember that if you look back in history, there have actually been as many as 500 different military activities from the American side in Greenland. Only Thule Air Base, Pituffik, is active today. However, this also suggests that there is a need to do a mapping and to ensure that there is a full environmental cleanup in the various places. And then we should remember that in Green Valley there has been no final clarification in relation to environmental clean-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164820	Thank you. In relation to foreign investors who sit down on the mining in Greenland, what does the rapporteur think about Denmark having a more active role in relation to the mining process? not when we talk about oil and gas, but more in relation to minerals? and what else might be of interesting projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164843	I think it is important that we spread it out so that raw materials, like the one leg on which we base our business development, become. If you look at the debate in Greenland over the last 5-10 years, you can see that it has been very much about raw materials. I think it is very important that we also look at other things that can help create a more solid economy. But yes, in relation to an Arctic investment fund it could be one of the options, but it is also where we need to see an initiative from the Naala Suisut in relation to the creation of such a fund. I also think it is very important to remember that human capital, human capital or human resources are now called human resources, that precisely the training of our own is extremely important in ensuring that we have the skills for these local jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164925	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025164929	I would just like to mention that the rapporteur says that Greenland has not done its part in the task of making a list of environmental problems to be brought to a Danish government, about the remains of the Americans in Greenland. The question lies not only with IA: It is the total population of Greenland that has for many, many years pointed out to the Government of Greenland that they must contact the Danish Government about the major problems that exist in Greenland. It's not just a matter of handing in a list. In the question of Camp Century, Denmark will not recognise that there is a major environmental issue worth addressing. It is a sluggish battle between Greenland and Denmark that all parties support. And we have only reached the point that we are about to have a conciliation in the committee here in the Folketing. That's as far as we've got. I also think it is very important in this context that it is not a question of whether Greenland is to blame or Denmark is to blame. Denmark has made an agreement with the Americans on behalf of the Kingdom Community, and they must answer for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165041	Now I think the rapporteur puts words in my mouth, which are actually from the rapporteur of the Left, because that is not what I have said. I have said that if no information has been supplied from Naalaksuisut, we must, of course, ensure that we do so. And I must remind you that the rapporteur himself has been chairman of the Naala Suisut for part of this period and has just helped to ensure that that information is passed on. I think it is important to say that Greenland has a responsibility, but Denmark also has a responsibility, and I do not think this should be a ball between Greenland and Denmark. However, it is precisely because we agree politically that this should be put in place that we are putting it in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165119	Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165121	That's exactly why I know what the case is. I myself have been chairman of the Naala Suisut in Greenland and addressed the Danish Government on several occasions. The Danish Government has not wanted to recognise the major environmental disaster taking place in Camp Century. It's no use just sending a list. It is very important that we ourselves from Greenland have also done our part to ensure a very adequate delivery to Denmark, so that it is not the environment and the Greenlandic people who have to pay for Denmark and the US defence agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165159	Once again, I can only stress that, on the part of the IA, we think there is a need for full environmental clean-up and we think it is going too slowly. Now this new information about Camp Century has come out, and we have a consultation here before long in the Greenland Committee, but there is still a need for a full coverage of the matter. And in relation to Camp Century and the few bases around it, I say that there is just a need for us to spread it out and look at it, because when there have been up to 500 different military activities on the American side in the past, there may be a need for us to do a mapping and a plan for how to clean up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165233	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025165256	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister has now presented his statement on the Arctic. The Kingdom is part of the government for the first time. The debate on the Kingdom community has never been as long as it was the last time, there have been many important reports since the formation of the government, and more emphasis has been placed on the Arctic issues than ever before. I'm glad to see that. I am also pleased to see that the Foreign Minister sees the work of our working parties in the Arctic Council as important issues and thus also calls for us, on behalf of the whole Kingdom Community, to deliver substance in all the work, both in the Arctic Council, in the Arctic Five and in the Kingdom Community, with respect for the authorities of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Greenland always delivers substance in the work of the Arctic Council. All the countries of the world are designing their Arctic policies, and very, very many countries, both large and small, want observer status in the Arctic Council. We're a hot topic in a global context. In the statement, there is a great many things being highlighted, and sometimes it can be a little difficult to see what is up and down in the statement, because it uncovers both domestic matters and also non-repatriated areas. I must be honest in saying that I have missed concrete proposals for solutions for future Arctic action by Denmark and the Kingdom Community. I would also like to say that I had also been looking forward to reading a little about various concrete solutions on long-term issues in general about the Arctic. The Arctic isn't just Greenland. When we talk about an arctic statement, we also think about the Arctic area as a whole. The Arctic Five countries, the Russian armament in the Arctic Arctic Arctic Ocean, and the submission by the Canadians and Americans of their submission to the continental shelf and the possible high seas fishing are also areas which I think could have been very important to take into account in the statement, when it is now called an Arctic statement. One of the many issues raised in the report is the police. As far as the police in Greenland are concerned, I also very much lack concrete proposals on how to solve the problem of the municipal authorities by the government, including the Minister of Justice, and the chief of police in Greenland. The total Danish responsibility in the field of justice deserves a thorough review, just as the defence has had its own analysis of the future task solution. The Kingdom Community is unique, as the Prime Minister himself said earlier in the opening debate. Greenland has a unique role in the whole kingdom community, and Denmark also has a unique role to play with the Americans because of Greenland. Important matters are ongoing which are of great political importance in maintaining good relations between Greenland and Denmark. The presence of the Americans over very, very many years, from World War II to today, has brought with them both many good and less good things in terms of Greenland and relations between Denmark and Greenland. The Americans' presence in Greenland based on permission from Denmark in the form of the defence agreement has produced and produces more and more frustrations in Greenland. We will not get any financial gain from it in our country and it will be polluted. This agreement between the Americans and Denmark is not for the benefit and benefit of the Greenlanders. It's not about who's gonna be the booger in this case. Denmark has made an agreement with the United States on behalf of the Kingdom community, and you have to stand by your responsibility. There is a report which we have now mentioned several times from this platform, and the report also demonstrates that when melting the ice sheet in Greenland there is a risk of leakage and contamination of the worst drawer. As scientists also point out in their report, neither the landfill of waste nor the radioactive contamination of the area are unfortunately remarkable in Greenlandic terms. Camp Century is just one of the many places where American activity has taken place. I look forward to the time that will come when the issue will be covered, and I also hope that the task solution in this context will be worthy and done with respect for both the environment and the population. The question of Camp Century is of great concern to Greenland and is of great political importance. But it has seemed as if it has not in any way been of particular importance and importance from the Danish side, unfortunately, through the ages. International media have now also taken an interest in this, fortunately. Now we want, as it were, to have greater dialogue on the subject, both in the committee here in the Folketing, but also between the two governments in Greenland and Denmark. Camp Century is just one of the many areas in Greenland where the Americans have left behind major environmental damage. The Minister for the Environment and Food visited Ikkatseq in East Greenland in August of this year and then a abandoned base with very environmentally dangerous material that has just been allowed to lie and float since 1947. Fuel, asbestos, heavy metals and, according to some U.S. sources, also out-toned explosives. At that time, the Minister for the Environment said that Greenland should not be the dustbin of the world. Greenland lost the service contract at Thulebasen, and Greenland's benefit from the Americans' presence lies in a very, very small place. I would like to see a unique relationship between Greenland and Denmark based on the unique communities we have and as regards the agreements Denmark has with other countries where Greenland and the Greenlandic people are affected. Greenland should and must be involved in the next negotiations with the United States, both on the Pituffik contract and the defence agreement. Our Arctic world is very vulnerable. We have one voice on the part of the Kingdom Community in the Arctic Council, and I see in the future a possible conflict in having one vote in the Arctic Council on issues of the lack of interest in ensuring clean-up after current and former US military installations in Greenland. The Arctic Council has special focus on sustainability, environment, monitoring of fauna and flora, assessment and safety. It would suit the Kingdom community if, in addition to the declarations, action were also taken to ensure a clean environment, including with Denmark's own agreements with other countries, including the Americans. The Arctic part of the Commonwealth is 20%. of the entire Arctic. Unfortunately, the former Arctic strategy, which is coming to an end, has not brought with it very much good. On the contrary, I find it difficult to see significant improvements based on the 2011 strategy itself. Two important reports have been published in this government's time, and this is the Tax Island report and the Department of Defense's Arctic analysis. The Arctic report does not highlight the important challenges we, as a Kingdom Community, will face because of the new shipping routes and the North Pole as an ice-free area in the summer not so many years from now. And we will face future investments, task solutions and infrastructure challenges. I think it is incredibly important for Denmark itself to show some commitment and interest in taking the initiative and shaping the future that the Arctic will have by investing and actively taking part in the task solutions and reaching out to Greenland so that it is not always the other way. Much has been said and written about Greenland in the past parliamentary year. A number of the challenges and problems we face have been analysed. Now we need to focus on finding constructive solutions. A coherent policy is needed in the Commonwealth of the Arctic. If the Community is to have good cooperation relations and successes, it requires that we treat each other with respect for each other's differences and show interest in the various criticisms and policies we now have. Even when we're talking about matters that haven't been taken home.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170224	We say thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170229	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. In relation to the service contract at Pituffik, Thule Air Base, it is a matter that takes up a great deal of interest in Greenland and takes up a great deal of interest in the politicians in Greenland. And Naalaksuisut ordered a million-dollar report, as I call it, which would uncover it both administratively and politically, i.e. who had the political and administrative responsibility in this matter from Greenland. After all, the rapporteur was the chairman of the Naala Suisut at the time, and the report also found that politicians had slept per hour and were not sufficiently involved in the decisions that have been taken in relation to the lost service contract. So we have a temporary situation right now in relation to Greenland Contractors having the service contract. But that is something that has a really great socio-economic significance. With the rapporteur's experience as former chairman of the Naala Suisut during the period when we lost the service contract, what do you think about getting a good solution for Greenland? How can we ensure that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170339	I think it is important that we go all the way back to the time when IA itself was in government, leading it, because then the negotiations and administrative preparations were already under way. There was not a particular focus on the area at all; it was also known about the procedures for how it might be; and the outside world did not belong to it. I don't think this is about who was in government. I think this is a question of what it means for Greenland: the relationship we have with Denmark and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when it comes to negotiations with a third country, with the Americans. In this context, I also think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has so much neglected their responsibility to ensure that Greenland and Denmark are the strongest when a contract is made when it comes to the service contract in the Thule area. The fact that Greenland and the Commonwealth thus lost it is a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170450	Thank you very much. Now the report says something else: it says that it was the rapporteur who, when she was President of the Naala Suisut, was not involved enough in this process because administratively not enough attention was paid to it, but not enough political attention was paid to this matter either. Compared with the municipal officers, as the rapporteur also mentions, IA has fought for a fairly large increase, from 600 DKK. for 6,000 kroner. per month, to the municipal officers. So in this way it can be said that we have been politically involved in fighting for better conditions in relation to municipal managers, including in terms of continuing training and equipment. How can we ensure forward-looking that there are municipal guards in all settlements, as is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170535	When it comes to the lost service contract at Thule, it is not a question of who was sitting there as a person and who should be held accountable for it, as the questioner is trying to do. This is a question of the cooperation that has taken place between Greenland and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact that the Greenlandic authorities have a close relationship with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also very important for the outcome in relation to the lost service contract. That is also why I think it is important that in the next negotiation of the service contract Greenland should be present, so that we ensure at all times that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has Greenland's interests in the bag already from day one.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170615	Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170620	Now Camp Century has been mentioned several times today, but there are other bases inside the ice sheet in Greenland. But this one, which has been so much mentioned, was a bunker for the few who had to survive a possible nuclear holocaust, but today it has become a possible environmental disaster for the many. Now Aleqa Hammond has been President of the Home Government in Greenland, and I assume that a President of the Home Government knows more than the majority or learns more from key sources, which is why I would like to ask about clean-up. Is there a kind of military clean-up and is there a civilian clean-up in relation to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170719	There are no ongoing or previous clean-ups on previous American bases in Greenland prompted by a Danish initiative with the Americans. There are currently 63 former DEW stations distributed throughout the Arctic area, and part of them are in Greenland, and none of them have been cleaned up. Just one example is Camp Century, which we are discussing today, and just the Camp Century report itself, which I have referred to, points to the greatest environmental disaster in the history of the empire, perhaps also in the history of the Arctic region. I think this should be treated with great care. I also think that this should be treated with respect and that we should not try to find a scapegoat, because it does not deserve the kingdom community. The Greenlandic environment does not have to pay for a Danish defence agreement with the United States. This needs to be resolved in a dignified way, and I am also looking forward to seeing the future dialogue that will be between Greenland and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170829	I also ask because it was said by the rapporteur of the Left, who of course represents the government in Denmark, that it was from time to time a balancing act and that we should talk ourselves out when it comes to cleaning up. So that's why I'm asking if there are two kinds of cleanups. Is it the balance between Greenland, the United States and Denmark when it comes to Camp Century, and when it comes to civilian activities, it is the national government in Greenland that decides how the legislation is to be cleaned up after leaving an area?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170917	Now it's such a bit ambiguous thing. Greenland does not have foreign competence in non-returned matters, and therefore it is under the Danish government. It is the same for defence that it is also under the Danish Government. Nevertheless, Greenland has always had its own positions and policies in the two areas which are of major importance, and that is why we also have a member of the local government for the region. In this context, I would also like to say that the Camp Century issue has been turned back and forth between the Danish Government and the Greenland Government, where Greenland's government thinks it is a serious problem, whereas Denmark has not seen it in the same way, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025170959	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171002	Thank you. First of all, in relation to Camp Century, it is simply not correct. It was the case that the Danish Minister for the Environment and the government then said that this was something we should take seriously, and therefore there is also a study work going on on the concrete issues. But let me turn to what we have been debating for a long time: clean-up in general, for example. Danish military bases. After all, the rapporteur has the dual role of the rapporteur himself as head of government of Greenland's government after the end of 2013, that is to say three years ago, when there was a deadline on the submission of this list to the Danish Ministry of Defence about what some areas should be looked at in relation to clean-up. What did the rapporteur himself do when the rapporteur was head of government in Greenland to ensure that this list was submitted to the Danish Ministry of Defence? The rapporteur himself says that this matter is so important and I agree that it requires care. Was it careful on the part of the rapporteur when the rapporteur was head of government and did not ensure that this list has not been submitted for a three-year period?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171115	Greenland has done a very thorough job on this issue, with care. I myself, as head of government in Greenland, have previously contacted the Danish government about Camp Century. Camp Century is just one of many areas to clean up. If the Danish Government does not even realize that there is a catastrophic state of the environment in this American Camp Century, for example, how can the Greenland Government and the Danish Government have a good dialogue and common understanding on this very serious issue? It's no use just sending a list. A list must be sent which certainly says sparto to everything, so that it cannot be misunderstood what extent of environmental problems has come from the presence of the Americans in Greenland, to the Danish Government. It was very difficult to find common ground. You just don't want to admit it. But I am glad that we have reached that point, that we are taking it up in consultation here and that there has been a better dialogue between Greenland and Denmark to find common ground on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171226	Again, that is not correct. The government has said that and you can do a simple google search to see that this is something you are investigating: What is the specific situation? And then you follow up. But again, I will return to this so-called care. I did not get an answer as to why, during the rapporteur's own reign, which was about a year and a half, as I remember, this list was not even submitted, which was a breach of the clear agreement of the Greenland Government with the Danish Government that the list should have been submitted by the end of 2013. Is that care? I still haven't received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171304	Denmark has never in any way involved Greenland in letting Greenland tell us what it is that the Americans have been allowed to do. Is it to be done with care to have a dialogue with Greenland? What has made it possible for Denmark to allow the Americans to suck up the Greenlandic environment to the extent that they have done so far? Is that care? I certainly do not think so. Since 2012, when it was agreed that a list should be drawn up, scientific evidence has been produced which did not exist before and which shows that there are 9,200 tonnes of physical waste in Greenland and millions of litres of sewage and low-radioactive waste water throughout the Camp Century area. It didn't exist back then. It has been necessary to proceed with care.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171353	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171358	Thanks for the speech. I understand from Mrs Aleqa Hammond that she thinks it would be reasonable to ask the Americans to pay a significant amount of money for their presence in Greenland, and I can follow the thinking in such an immediate way that it is thought that the Americans have an advantage in being up there, and therefore it is reasonable that they should pay something. On the other hand, it must be said that the American presence in Greenland also benefits Greenland. The Americans guarantee security in Greenland. They have for many, many years. Does Mrs Aleqa Hammond not think that it is also to Greenland's advantage? I do not think we can simply say that it is only the Americans who have something to do with it or that it is only Denmark that has something to do with the Americans being present. Greenland also has an interest in ensuring safety in Greenland itself. And it is certainly not such an illusion to imagine that there could be other powers who would have been interested in Greenland over time if the Americans had not been there to guarantee safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171507	Now we see things from a little different angles. I would like to start by saying that when the Americans were about to build a base in Greenland with permission from Denmark, people who lived in the area where the base was to be built were forcibly removed. It's a bad start. And the American presence has also resulted in major environmental pollution in Greenland wherever the Americans have been present. They have not been ordered to clean up after them. This is an even worse matter. Greenland has lost the service contract at Thulebasen. It's also a bad case. Greenland is not at the negotiating table when it comes to negotiating a defence agreement with the United States. It's also a bad case. If the Kingdom community is to get a good cause out of this, I think there should be a completely different approach to the workflows and authorities in Greenland. I certainly do not believe that Greenland has in any way called into question the security aspect behind the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171618	I can all agree with that. I agree that forced removal is not something you can be familiar with. I agree that once there has been a military presence in Greenland, there will have to be cleaned up. I agree that Greenland should sit at the table when these things are negotiated. But it still does not quite remove the premise for my question, which is, if not Mrs Aleqa Hammond recognises that Greenland also has something to do with the Americans being present because they guarantee Greenland's security • which is not something that you go and think about every day, but which is actually quite central to a good Greenland, namely that there is security in the country. It must also be acknowledged that it is not just the Americans who have something to do with it. Greenland itself does.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171700	We do not question that at all, and it is not in this context either. This case is about what they brought with them to Greenland. Over time, we have tried to make some good use of the cooperation that Denmark has with the Americans, in the form of our joint committee work between Denmark and Greenland and the United States. Having said that, I think that our common history should now have shown that there is something here that we must do better in the Kingdom community. A few years ago we conducted the largest civil trial in the Danish Kingdom in the form of the Thule case because of the forced relocations. Then we should have already started to look at what sort of things we can do better in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171745	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025171801	The Pola reed, both in the south and in the north, has over the ages had an unparalleled appeal. Most of them have been informed about the South Pole race, about Roald Amundsen's victory over Scott almost 105 years ago. Roald was hailed the world over as the victor, while Robert Falcon Scott frozen wrote a half-finished letter intended for his widow on 29 March 1912 before he breathed life away in biting cold, thousands of miles from his homeland in England. The race in the north did not in any way become a similar drama, and there may be many different reasons for this, among others. the fact that there was no land area at the North Pole itself. We know that Robert Peary was in the area and that he himself claimed his presence there, but there are still a number of professionals who dispute the authenticity of his version of being the first human being at the pole position itself. One of them is astronomical professor Dennis Rawlin, who wrote the book "Peary at the North Pole - Facto or Fiction "? ▪ Well over a hundred years is a short period in history's great wingsus, but I promise that the slightly pale drama of Antarctica at the beginning of the last century evolved into a confrontatory melting pot of monstrous dimensions, especially in the period when the Cold War raged between the two divergent economic and ideological systems and superpowers in the East and in the West. After all, the United States and the Soviet Union were both neighbours and residents of the region, and there seemed to be no limit to the extent of investment in the war arsenal, in the event of the tense situation moving out of control. You were armed to the teeth with atomic charges that would have apocalyptic consequences for humanity if the accident were out. Denmark's role in this war-torn period is well known. The old empire became part of the geopolitical madness by militarily leasing the remaining possessions of the North Atlantic, Greenland and the Faroe Islands to the Pentagon's attempt to stem the threat from the East. We all know about the stories of Thule in 1968 when the hydrogen bombs fell into the sea and the area suffered from nuclear radiation. Today we are hearing about Camp Century, which will undoubtedly develop into a huge environmental problem if the problem is not addressed. In my young days as a sailor in Greenland for almost 30 years, I have seen the giant bunker in the ice sheet where the launchers for the nuclear missiles were located. Thus Greenland in particular and also the Faroe Islands were used in the struggle for world domination. Denmark's geopolitical position in the world consists exclusively of the location of North Atlantic possessions on the globe. Without them, the country was at the Øresund non-existing and had no interest in the world community. It is also clear from the Foreign Minister's statement that the old elastic empire now needs the kingdom again in rhetoric as a gathering well in order to reach the necessary latitudes to the north, where one is about to assert oneself in the great power game, which is currently playing out in and around the Arctic. The Soviet Union disappeared, but Russia is back on its feet and, despite the reduced material strength, nothing seems to stand in the way of ambition as a renewed superpower. In particular, we are aware of the future position in the area around the North Pole. Then we are somewhat in place again in the balance, testing each other's strengths and quirks, but the old superpowers must now, in spite of everything, enter into a dialogue with Iceland, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Canada and in this case so advertised the kingdom that is left in this context as a state collector's well for an old colony and a centuries-old possession in the North Atlantic of the sole legitimacy of the claimed unitary state in the polar area. This morning, in a different context, at the hearing on Russia as a major power, it was noticed that the Foreign Minister said literally: each country has the right to decide its own future. The idea was Russia's aggressive behaviour in Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea and the blitz war on Aleppo. The muscles are rolled in a post-imperialist time, but it should not surprise the Danish state power in particular. The experiences of the Faroe Islands 70 years ago, in September 1946, when the King of the now so exalted and glorified kingdom dotted the will of the people and the democratically elected Latting, when, in a referendum, the Faroes had chosen to establish themselves as a nation state, and then from the strategic and controlled countermoves against the process of self-government around the turn of the millennium, their clear language speaks of what political conflicting forces are fighting in opposite directions inside the Danish constructed bubble state. It is the kingdom that now acts as an equal partner in the Arctic. The Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement is otherwise a good qualitative and factual briefing to the Danish Parliament and the people of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland regarding the processes that are constantly running in the new political universe between the countries bordering on the new challenges and opportunities at the North Pole. In particular, one can welcome the obvious focus of the report on the indigenous peoples of the region. In any case, it is a significant step forward in relation to the boycotts that have otherwise been lived with for decades, especially on the part of the EU countries, of seal catches, the capture of Great Whale and Grinde Whale and the Brussels-led European boycott of the Faroe Islands in the mackerel dispute with Denmark as an activist actor in the process, when the country closed Danish ports to Faroese ships during the famous period, when the EU, including the great southern player in the now-suitable kingdom, tried to crush in the high north the obvious rights of a country in the field of fishing. In the ministerial channels here at the Øresund, the behaviour of a skilful chameleon has gradually developed, as the circumstances require, in order to extract the best of every situation for the old empire. It is the geographical location of Greenland and the Faroe Islands that is the reason for the debate here today. It is two communities whose people have survived largely for centuries because of natural resources in the waters and on land. In their project to survive, Faroese fishermen have applied to the farthest parts of the globe to support communities, wives and children financially, and in particular they have tried in the Arctic, at Labrador, in Canadian waters, Svalbard, at Bjørneøen, in the White Sea and at Novaja Zemlja in the east. Therefore, for good reasons, the Arctic is part of our sphere of interest, in a classical sense as part of the area, and now as a future player on the fishing side in a new opportunity, which is at the same time a greater challenge for other residents of the castle. I am thinking in particular of all the seal-catchers up in the Thule area, whom I know from all those journeys by sea, where I have anduved the settlements with the annual supply. Today they have great problems performing their old business, as the ice melts and the sea ice is reduced at a furious rate. The Pola Trench is disappearing. It is therefore a kind thought that the statement is based on the lives and lives of indigenous peoples and, above all, on their opportunities in the future. The European Union will be very famous in the report, which is a natural consequence of Denmark's membership of the Union, but as I was able to say at a North Atlantic Fisheries Council in Malta in 2008, it has been a tremendous problem that those who know only a live animal from a dead product in a burger bar have for far too long been guiding the policy of misunderstood sustainable fishing and fishing in the seas north. The seal and the laughing whale are the best examples. It can be proved that the catch has been sustainable, but representatives of predominantly ecological religious views in Europe, who have aimed to determine who is now to be protected in the food chain, have really managed to transform their unnatural opinions and make them a potent political reality, which has since been a pestilence to the kingdom as far as Greenland and the Faroe Islands are concerned. So far, there have been three meetings on the management of the area. They have been held in the United States and Canada and have dealt with the management of fisheries in the Arctic Sea, and the next meeting will take place in the Faroe Islands in November with the participation of the United States, Russia, Canada, the Kingdom as regards Greenland and the Faroe Islands, Norway, Iceland, Japan, China, South Korea and the European Union. I want to end up where I started. Roald Amundsen was right when he made the statement on the cause of his victory over the South Pole and Robert Falcon Scott. The preparations were crucial, and yet the victory was most often valued as success by those who were not involved. The opposite was true for the losing. Of course, he had been unlucky in the process. As a representative of Tjóðveldi, I support the attempt to cooperate on sustainable development in the Arctic. This will certainly be another opportunity for the future to strengthen the economic foundations of the future Faroese Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025172909	Thank you, sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sjúrður Skaale. I have to say 'cause the President is not allowed to give applause, nor for the artistic expression 'we of course thank you for the speech'. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025172926	Thank you. It is a good thing that the number of decibels goes up every once in a while in this Chamber... it can get like sleep-blowing heavy sometimes. Thanks for the speech. I have just one question: does the speaker not think that it is a little bit sought and that perhaps there is a little discord between comparing Russia's doing and the barn today with what has been going on in the Kingdom community for the last 70 years? Is there not a certain nuance between what is happening in Ukraine and what is happening in the Kingdom community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173006	Now I do not know if I equated Russia's history with Denmark's history, but at least Danish media are currently discussing enough about the Danish colonial period. And what has puzzled me a lot is that the next year is 100 years since the West Indies were sold that it is never mentioned, even in left-wing media, that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are also part of the possessions on which Denmark has been sitting. I just want to say that if you don't know the past, you can't maneuver in the present, and then you can't judge at all what it's gonna look like in the future. I can only relate to the process of self-government which started in the Faroe Islands more than 120 years ago and which among other things. led the referendum with which I mentioned and which resulted in a process of autonomy, of which Sjúrður Skaale himself was a part, around the turn of the millennium. And it is quite clear that every effort has been made by the Danish side to stop the process, even though, for other countries, we have been very active in supporting decolonisation between other empires and their colonies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173138	Mr President, there is one more brief comment to make. Tórbjørn Jacobsen, and it is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173148	Thank you very much, first of all, for a very fine contribution from the rapporteur. It can be seen that there is also a great deal of heart blood in the rapporteur's speech. In the past we also mentioned the Faroe Islands' economy, which is really positive, and from a Greenlandic perspective I would also like to congratulate you from this point of view. At the same time, I also know that the Faroe Islands are working to take home a large number of areas, so from Greenland we have a great many things to look at the Faroe Islands in relation to being inspired by the process that you are doing. In relation to the constitutional process, I would like to say that this is also something that Tjóðveldi has worked very actively on to ensure that there is a constitution in the Faroe Islands. How far has that process been achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173234	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Firstly, I can only repeat what was said in the two comments earlier today concerning the Faroese economy in relation to the Danish economy: the fact is that in the Faroe Islands there is a larger gross domestic product per year. resident than in Denmark at present, and that the Faroese sovereign debt or home government debt per. The population is much lower than the same in Denmark. Then we are asked about the Constitution or the Law of Self-Government. After all, it started as a project for a constitution because it was in the process of establishing a Faroese state around 1998, 1999 and 2000, all of which have been heard about. And as I understand it, and now I am not in the Latting, you intend to hold a referendum in 2017, i.e. next year, after a majority of parties have agreed on what the substance of this self-government law should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173350	The questioner? Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Tórbjørn Jacobsen for his speech. It was not the first held in the Folketing. I understand that sir. Tórbjørn Jacobsen has been in the Folketing earlier. But thank you for that. And the next one, sir. rapporteur Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025173405	Thank you. Then we'll take the microphone down a little bit, and decibels will go down, too, I'll tell you what. No man is an island, they say, and that means that no one can live in isolation, no one can exist as anything other than part of a community. When you read the Foreign Minister's statement on the Arctic, you are reminded that the same applies to countries and nations. Not so many years ago there were cut, isolated communities in the Arctic, but in the age of globalisation there is no country, no society and no nation an island nor in the Arctic, where there are so many islands and so many geographically remote communities. We can almost say that no island is an island. Everything is connected and nothing can be done, nothing makes any sense without joint action. The report provides an excellent overview of the quite impressive web of large and small projects that have emerged in the North Atlantic and in the Arctic. We have had intergovernmental authorities, intergovernmental policy, intergovernmental projects in the fields of industry, research, culture, health, defence and the environment. We have had active NGOs, working groups, task forces, etc. etc. And common to almost everything is that it wouldn't make any sense if it wasn't part of this big cobweb. The statement does not go into depth in any field. There are not many opinions in this statement, there is not much policy in that • I think that is a little unfortunate. It is more of an overview, but it also provides a good overview and gets far around it is also fine. But I will nevertheless start in a corner where the statement does not come. There is, after all, an Arctic working group in the Folketing, where all the North Atlantic and four other members of parliament are present. We have represented the Folketing at relevant events around the world, not just as listeners, but almost always as contributors. We have kept it on a very concrete level and it has aroused great interest in many different places. The group has also been given access at a much higher level than we had thought before we started. It is appreciated so much by the management of the Folketing that the group, which was set up on an experimental basis a few years ago, has now become a permanent part of the system here in the house. As chairman of this group, I was the Head of Delegation of the Kingdom at our meeting of another body in Ulan Ude in Russia in the spring; this is about the Standing Committee of Parliamentarians. This committee consists of parliamentarians from the United States, Canada, Russia and all the Nordic countries. In addition, there are observers from many other countries. At the spring meeting in Russia we had a long discussion which ended with a vote in 43 different points. This input from the parliamentarians has since been submitted to the Arctic Council all the governments of the countries from which the participants come. It was fine, and it made absolutely sense while it was being made. The discussions were very exciting, and the statutes were very relevant, I think, but the area, as I started by saying, is built up by incredibly many different bodies. Therefore, one can sometimes be afraid that much ends up as pure discussions; that the system is so mottled and command lines so curved and bent, perhaps even in many places also snapped, that everything ends in drawers or on hard drives around. This is particularly true in the case of parliamentary and advisory bodies without direct authority. Now that the government has been presented with the adoption from Russia in the spring that I was talking about, and this adoption is not mentioned in this statement, which otherwise goes far, one can have the idea that it is at best not considered to be very important and, at worst, that no one in the government has read it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he knows, first of all, anything about this body, namely the Standing Committee of Arctic Parliamentarians, whether, secondly, he has been presented with the decisions of Russia that I was talking about and, thirdly, how the government treats such a thing. What happens when such a decision by parliamentarians is presented to a minister or his officials? If it is read, who reads it, will it be discussed? Meeting with parliamentarians is, of course, a fine goal in itself, because it can also indirectly produce different results, but it would certainly increase the desire to discuss and formulate policy if you knew what happened to the results and they did not end up in a vacuum. I mention this here because so many people are interfering in the debate on the Arctic these years, and there is a real danger of getting lost in the maze and using the forces incorrectly. In general terms, I think that most of the positive part of this statement is what is not in the report at all. Russia is mentioned many times, but never as an enemy. Of course, you should not be naive, but you should not be conflict Maximize; you should not see threats and enemies when they are not there, because if you see them where they are not, you can actually create them. Ukraine, Crimea and Syria, of course, make Russia Western enemy number one these days. However, just as Willy Brandt's Eastern policy was a wiser strategy than the confrontation line, we should cooperate in the north, although we have the conflict in the south as long as we can. Russia's stated objectives in the Arctic, Russia's Arctic strategy, are not far from Denmark's Arctic strategy or the other Nordic countries' strategies, and as long as it is these objectives that are being pursued, we should follow suit. The West should not slam the door against Russia until Russia does so to the West. Until that happens, we should cooperate as much as possible, because the greater the advantages Russia sees from having the door open, the less the danger of it being slammed in at all. That is the whole philosophy of the European Union: the more you work together, the less it pays to slam the door. Talking about Nordic cooperation in the field of security and defence policy was almost unthinkable some years ago, but now it is the clear vision and concrete action is beginning to emerge. That, of course, begins with the alert. The report mentions that a Nordic ministerial meeting in Oslo in 2014 decided to establish joint Nordic action modules aimed at strengthening the Nordic resilience, as it says, and creating cost-effective measures and linking all this work to the EU disaster pool. This is very relevant to the Faroe Islands, because the preparedness is not good enough as it is now, and traffic is growing year after year. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how much progress has been made in implementing these decisions on close Nordic emergency cooperation and whether it is seen as a first step on the road to genuine defence policy cooperation in the North. The second section on cooperation in the statement refers to the fact that Denmark's Arctic strategy contains a wording which states that efforts should be made to make the Faroe Islands more visible in the EU's optics as part of Arctic cooperation. However, it is also noted that the Faroe Islands are not mentioned in the EU's latest joint communication on the Arctic, and that the Faroe Islands are not even mentioned in the section on Horizon 2020, where the Faroe Islands are a full member and pay their share like all EU countries, like Norway and like Iceland. Yet the Faroe Islands are not mentioned at all. Now we have to ask the Minister why this is and what action will be taken to correct it. As the previous speaker mentioned, in November the Faroe Islands are hosting the negotiations for an international agreement on future fishing in the Arctic Ocean. It is Greenland and the Faroe Islands that are negotiating on behalf of the Kingdom, and that is the best we can achieve in the current regime. However, it is not certain that Greenland and the Faroe Islands agree on everything, and therefore this once again demonstrates the need for the so-called DFG scheme to change Denmark as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, so that the Faroe Islands and Greenland can each pursue their own interests, so that we avoid a conflict between the two countries. I also find it problematic that countries that are not coastal states at all are involved in these negotiations. For example: Japan, China, South Korea and the European Union are helping to determine the principles of future fishing in these waters. It is fine that observers should be taken in, but we must be careful. There are countries whose interest in the Arctic is based on the basic view that it must be a reserve, that is, something that must first and foremost be stored and protected and preserved for posterity and that must only be opened up in the field of research. This is not in the interests of Greenland or the Faroe Islands or Denmark. It goes against the basic ideas that lie in Denmark's Arctic strategy. I myself think that the European Union should, of course, have observer status in the Arctic Council, but I actually mean as Canada, who said: no seal, no deal. Participation must be based on the principle that there are people living in the area and that the area must be able to develop like all other areas on the planet. Time's up, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174430	It is, but we have a few brief comments to make. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174438	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a fine speech. As far as the Arctic Parliamentary Committee is concerned, a large number of recommendations were made for this Ulan Ude conference which was held in Russia. This is a trade, for example. on the environment, it is about the living conditions of those living in the Arctic, and it is about human rights. In fact, I asked for a meeting with the Foreign Minister at the beginning of August and a meeting was held here at the end of October. Within the framework as there is, that is what is. However, I would like to support the rapporteur in saying that yes, there is a need to give priority to this and there is a need to ensure that the recommendations that come from the committee are, of course, also passed on to the government and taken on by the government. So I am also looking forward to hearing the Secretary of State's answer to your question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174531	Thank you. I believe that we should use our powers where we get something out of it, and if it is the case that parliamentarians take part in all kinds of forums and nothing happens afterwards, and it just ends up in some vacuum, then it does not make sense, then it is a waste of money. I think we know it a little again from the Nordic Council, where there are incredibly many discussions. They often lead to concrete results, but many times you feel that it is Members of Parliament who sit and talk, and then it just disappears and ends nowhere. There you have to be careful that you have the command lines so that what you are doing gives results.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174609	Another example that the rapporteur also raised is the Arctic Working Group. After all, you have also been involved in trying to press for us to ensure that we are also very visible as an Arctic working group and that, of course, you, as President, are also involved in ensuring that this is done. I think that is very positive too. After all, we had a good experience at Arctic Circle when there was a session where there was actually really, really much interest across from many different countries in relation to the Arctic work taking place in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174642	Thank you for that comment. It is also in my very clear interest. Both in Arctic Circle this year and last year there has been a great deal of interest in the presentations we have had. We also had talks in Washington, where there have been listeners from all over the world, and this shows that there is a great deal of interest in the Kingdom community these years. That is why I think it is quite appropriate that we have that working group and that we are as active as we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174706	Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174709	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale mentions that it will be a common cause to manage this area that is under discussion today, and one can only agree on that. Now the Russians are not helping to take account of the environment, we all know that, and the last thing we have heard from someone who may be elected President of the United States in 14 days' time is that he has said in his political programme that he will drop all funding in climate research and that he will most certainly terminate all the climate agreements of which the United States is a part. Then it all starts to get a little fugitive. That's why I was going to ask Mr. Sjúrður Skaale about anything. What kind of regime do we have to stand up for to uphold the resolutions and the statutes drawn up between these countries that will govern the region? It is at least as important that the enforcement of what has already been adopted is in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174824	Thank you. Fortunately, there is now little danger that Donald Trump will be president of the United States. One may be very surprised that over 40%. of the Americans will vote in favour of this programme, but fortunately there is hardly a majority in favour of it, so it does not look so black anyway. On the subject of enforcement and the debates, I fully agree with a parliament in which there was no government, of course, does not make any sense. It is therefore very important that the Arctic Council should be given the powers and resources needed to enforce and implement what is decided around it. As it is now, it is a little elusive, and there are many loose ends, and many command lines are simply broken, because they do not end anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174911	It'll just be a comment. What is very important in this matter is that we look into the future, that is to say, how we should at all practice everything that we agree on, because it is a huge area that needs to be addressed to the satisfaction of most people, and therefore the risk that things will go wrong is very great if we do not make it clear in the treatment itself from now on how to enforce all the things we agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025174955	Thank you. It is fortunately the case that international law is based on, and the whole of Arctic cooperation is based on international law which obliges all the Member States. One must then just hope that all the Member States are also willing to enforce the principles they have said they would enforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175012	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175016	Greenland is the only country that hunts Great Whales in the Kingdom Community, and negotiations on Great Whales take place under the Danish flag, where the Faroe Islands and Greenland are represented. Denmark plans to follow the EU line, which points to the establishment of a sanctuary for Great Whales in the south of the North Atlantic. They say that you have heard and had a dialogue with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but when we look at the consultation answers, we can see that both countries disagree fairly with the Danish line and with the European Union. What can the rapporteur say about this issue? Where, then, do we stand together in the Kingdom community with regard to Great Whales?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175108	Thank you. It is now, as has been pointed out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the IWC meeting that is about to take place is subject to professional secrecy. However, if I am to speak in general about the position that has been taken in the Danish system since 2008, I would say that it is regrettable that Denmark stands on the one hand, and the Faroe Islands and Greenland are on the other. I think it is quite clear that it should first of all be Greenland's wishes that were fulfilled and that it was Greenland's voice that was heard when the Kingdom speaks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175143	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175145	Personally, I think that an issue as important as whaling and whales should be something on which the Kingdom community as a whole has an open dialogue, because the Great Whales are a large part of the Greenlandic natural economy and are the reason why we can maintain a healthy level of nutrition in the most remote areas of Greenland. It should be in Danish interest to ensure that there is an open dialogue so that we make decisions at all times that will benefit our cause and not weaken it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175227	Well, I don't disagree with that at all. I totally agree. I understand that when there is a specific negotiating proposal on the table, it is kept confidential, but of course you have to have an open dialogue on how Denmark positions itself, that is clear. It has happened with IWC, which began as a whaling organisation, that they have become a whale conservation organisation because so many members have come in against whaling. This is the same thing that can happen in the Arctic Council, as I said in my speech, that if many Members come in, who are opposed to the exploitation of resources, then it can eventually become their own contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175306	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have no more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, so that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025175320	When we looked at the number of statements before Parliament's opening, a very broad circle of the Danish Parliament's parties decided that we should gather some of the explanations, because their current relevance may not be as great as it has been in the past. One of the explanations that we did not change was the Arctic statement, and I think today's debate has shown that it was the right decision to maintain an independent Arctic statement, so that we have an opportunity here to discuss together the development of cooperation between the three parts of the Danish Kingdom and the way we act, in order to place the Kingdom in the best possible position overall in relation to the challenges and opportunities that exist in the Arctic region. I think that today's debate has been both objective and constructive, and I would like to thank you for that. It seems to me important to maintain that the Arctic is an important foreign policy priority for the government and for the kingdom. Our location as an Arctic coastal state with a great influence on the development of the entire Arctic means that we have great opportunities, but in my optics too great obligations to ensure the best possible outcome of the many different discussions on fisheries, the exploitation of raw materials, sustainable economic development, whaling, seal-catching, transport and climate. We have the greatest opportunity to influence the development we would like if we speak with a single voice from the kingdom. That is why a great deal of activity is being carried out to bring together the three parties in the Kingdom and to coordinate and find common ground in the areas where we have to speak on behalf of the Kingdom Community. We stand together when we speak with a voice, and that is only where we stand strongest. As a foreign policy player, we can help to focus globally on the Arctic area, and because of our unique location, as a member of the Arctic Council, we can help shape developments in this important area not as an observer, but as a full member and as one of the five coastal states. The vision is to create the most optimal framework for sustainable development in the region. It is about breaking down barriers that hamper development; it is about creating understanding and respect for local people's way of life and needs. This requires, among other things, that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area, and I agree with the many who have said that it is a priority that, no matter how burning conflicts have been in the rest of the world, it has so far been shown that the Arctic is a low-voltage area and it remains a priority to be worked for. We must meet and talk to each other, not about each other, talk about solutions to common problems and the creation of common opportunities. That is why we will continue to work to ensure that the Arctic is a low-voltage area, and that is why we have no interest in making some sort of exchange between other conflicts around the world and then what is happening in the Arctic area. The Arctic Council is for us to see the primary forum for cooperation, and it is of interest to the whole Kingdom what is going on in the Arctic Council. It is because we have a clear interest in the whole Arctic, not only in relation to Greenland's role, but the Arctic as a huge natural area and an opportunity area in relation to raw materials and living resources and the exploitation of new opportunities that come, in line with the development that we see. We are working closely with the US Presidency and we will work closely with the Finnish Presidency, which will sit in the chair next spring. A place where Denmark has had a major influence is the working group on telecommunications infrastructure, including satellite services. This is an important area of action for the Arctic Council, and it is an area in which we in Denmark have had the opportunity to put it on the agenda, among other things. in connection with the recent Arctic Circle. This is in line with the government's other political priorities, the space strategy and the political follow-up to the analysis of the presence of the Ministry of Defence in the Arctic. On the part of the Kingdom, we have also taken an active part in sea rescue and crisis management work, for example. oil spill. What we are experiencing at the moment is that there is an increasing interest from the world for the Arctic. This does not mean that you are a member of the Arctic Council. Only the eight members are taking decisions in the Arctic Council. It's only when we're talking about the interests of coastal This means that if you are an observer and have observer status in the Arctic Council, you are not a decision-maker, but you are a participant, and you have the opportunity to provide input and recording, and we have the opportunity to draw on the knowledge and resources and the interest that exists in different countries. That is why, as several of the North Atlantic Members have also said, I see only an interest on our part in the fact that, for example, we are not in a position to do anything about it. The EU can become an observer in the Arctic Council. Not because they must be involved in deciding, but because they have shown an interest and they come with a resource and knowledge. In some areas, I would like the European Union to actually have more knowledge of what is going on in the Arctic and perhaps also a greater recognition of the conditions of life and development of the Arctic people. That is why we fully support the EU's participation. May I not just say to those who say no sale, no deal, that I welcome the fact that the agreement in question has not only maintained that there is an inuit exemption for seal products, for it has also been established that the EU has an obligation to draw more attention to Greenland's exception and that Greenlandic seal products are not covered by the EU's ban. So if the stumbling block has been a no sale, no deal, as the approach to it, that stone should at least be cleared out of the way for the EU to be an observer in the Arctic Council. From the Danish side, we have presented input to the Arctic area on the European Union's side. In 2016, they launched an Arctic Strategy in the form of a Communication on Integrated EU Policy in the Arctic. Denmark has had a great influence on it, but unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to write everything ourselves. We would have liked some things to be clearer, we would have liked the Faroe Islands to have been clearly mentioned in the communication that has been there, but I still think that when you look at how much we have been able to move from the European Union's understanding of the Arctic, it has been good to see, also in relation to some areas where the European Union has an added value to offer. It is through research, through coordinated and focused use of the EU's financial instruments for sustainable economic development and for the benefit of the Arctic peoples. We have had good cooperation in the field of research, in the field of education, where there has been a focus on creating a framework for better dialogue between relevant research institutions in the Kingdom Community. Research is being carried out in the Arctic region, although it is expensive and difficult, and we want to continue to strengthen cooperation across Danish institutions and within the Danish community to optimise the use of the research resources that have been available. The written statement is the tradition of a statement on the status of cooperation. The Arctic strategy is the line of what we want to move forward, and we are in close dialogue with the Faroe Islands and Greenland starting a mid-term review of, as we have said, which will come here in the middle of the period. Here we go through what is to come of new things, whether something has been followed up and needs to be further developed, whether there is something that has run out of time and that we need to change, and whether there are other things that have come to us that we need to bring in. So the more forward-looking mid-term review and review of the Arctic strategy is not in the statement, but in the work that is going on in close coordination between Tórshavn, Nuuk and Copenhagen. What we can see is that the Kingdom has played an active role in relation to a large number of the issues currently under discussion. Even before the polar code officially enters into force, the national requirements for shipping at Greenland have been tightened, and at the beginning of 2016 the Maritime Authority carried out the world's first certification of a new ship that complies with the new polar code. In 2015, the five Arctic coastal states, and thus the Kingdom of Denmark, signed a declaration on future fishing in the high seas of the Arctic Ocean, a declaration followed by negotiations on a proper fisheries agreement, and the meeting will take place in Tórshavn next week. As several have mentioned, there has been the whole analysis of the presence of the Ministry of Defence in the Arctic, which focuses on the implementation of concrete initiatives. May I not say a few things about the more general themes that have been raised in the debate here. First of all, it is a question of involving local resources in defence cooperation. A specific mention was made of the Sirius patrol. That is, in fact, what the Ministry of Defence's statement suggests, namely that local resources should be more involved in the defence presence and the defence solution for which the Ministry of Defence is responsible. Denmark has had an active participation in Arctic Circle. At the meeting that has just been held in Arctic Circle in Iceland, Denmark has had an increased presence in relation to the past; we have had the presence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research; and there have been what have been called page events where Denmark, in cooperation with others, has carried out activities. That is why it has also been a priority on our part. Last year, we started a tradition of "or not quite a tradition yet," because it is said that it must have been done three times before it is a tradition, but then we are at least more than halfway there, for it to become a tradition that the Greenlandic Minister for Foreign Affairs attends the annual ambassador meeting in Copenhagen to stress that the embassies are all That is why we have had Greenlandic and Faroese participation this year to provide input on what the ambassadors' duties should be, on the basis of the fact that you are an embassy and ambassador for the whole Kingdom of Denmark. So for some a little more concrete and individual things. First of all, thank you to Tórbjørn Jacobsen for a very entertaining speech and a very subjective review of history until now. I shall confine myself to saying two things: one is thanks for the roses to the factual part of the statement, and then I would just like to stress that what I said this morning about the right of countries to choose their own future is also fully applicable to questions relating to the Danish Kingdom. But it is a question of choosing oneself and thus also of taking the responsibility and consequences of such a choice. In relation to Mr. Mr Sjúrður Skaale, I would like to say that I have not read the decisions that have been made, but fortunately I have good people in the ministry who have followed decisions on the Parliamentary Assembly, and that is the case if you look at it, that actually there are quite a lot of the things that are mentioned in the resolutions and discussions that are already under way. There are also some of the points raised in the discussions which I hope will not get under way because it is a slightly mixed country trade of the things that have been. I have referred to the issue of the European Union's communication. We would have liked the Faroe Islands to have been specifically mentioned in the one we would have liked to have seen their participation in Horizon 2020 being highlighted as one of the things that we in Denmark want to emphasise. So for a few of the other speakers. I have already mentioned to Mr McMillan-Scott. Henrik Brodersen, that we disagree as to whether the EU should be an observer. We would like them to join us in getting a better understanding of what is going on. We believe that there should be clear protection for the vulnerable environment around Greenland. That is why we have been working for the IMO to create the polar code, and that is why we have already begun to certify ships for a polar code that will not enter into force until a few months have elapsed. We have taken a look at the conditions around Camp Century from the Danish side, both the present and the previous government. First on the question of whether the nuclear reactor had been removed. This was the first question raised in 2014. The new question has been raised on the basis of a scientific magazine, which is the risk that the melting of the ice will reveal new environmental challenges. We are looking into this. It has been stated both by me and by the Minister for the Environment and Food that this is a study being carried out. However, we find it difficult to determine what is known about it before we have had the opportunity to carry out the specific studies along the way. With regard to our negotiations or discussions with Russia on the continental shelf delineation, as Mr. Christian Juhl asked, perhaps it is too much to say that these are negotiations, because they are not negotiations, as they were conducted with Norway and Iceland, because we cannot, with Russia alone, define the continental shelf. It therefore requires that the other countries which have announced that they will submit a bid to the United Nations continental shelf Commission should also have it put in and that they should also become part of the negotiations. But that is why we can have probes and discussions, and we are of course doing so not in the course of negotiations, but also in dialogue with Russia, just as has been mentioned in the statement. In relation to the question of the involvement of DCE in the decision on uranium extraction, I must point out that Nuuk is asking, since we in Denmark have not been involved in the decision on whether or not to extract uranium. We are involved in what the consequence is, if so, the question of whether one confronts or has had contact with DCE, is to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance I just want to say that we have not had a dialogue with the Netherlands on Sea Shepherd. We have a dialogue with a large number of countries to enforce international rules, and it is the case that there are no restrictions on the catch of small whales, not even the catch of grin whales by the Faroe Islands, and that is why it is a catch which is perfectly legitimate and which the Faroe Islands have the right to continue with. To Mr. Roger Matthisen, I would say that the challenge of the climate agreement is not whether it is effective enough or not, it is, of course, whether it is being met at all. Well, it's about whether you live up to it. And I am pleased that the Faroe Islands have chosen to join the Paris Agreement. I am sorry that Greenland has not chosen to join the Paris Agreement and thus is not part of the effort to keep temperature development below 2 degrees. In my view, it would have been a stronger signal to be in. We have made available a number of different instruments from Denmark. Both the previous government and the current government have taken a number of initiatives to establish forms of financing to ensure that the climate investments needed to comply with the Paris Agreement are carried out. With regard to oil and gas extraction, I would say in relation to the raw materials that may be in Greenland, in the Faroese underground, that if they can be recovered in an environmentally responsible way, I do not have a problem with that. But the core here is that it should be in an environmentally sound way. Even if it is economically viable, it must be up to those who choose to invest in such production. But what is at the heart of me is whether it is environmentally sound. Negotiations on fisheries are currently under way. We hope that this will trigger a clear and better agreement. Sir. Martin Lidegaard asks, in connection with research, whether we can put it together more. I've already mentioned that, I think we can. I think we have a good and close cooperation with the Greenlandic Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I think we have a good and close cooperation with both the administration in Thorshavn and in Nuuk in the daily. I do not think that there has been any need on our part to increase cooperation. However, if there are specific proposals on where we need to deepen cooperation exactly, we would be happy to hear it and to receive it. In relation to the chart discussion, it is true that even if you move the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg here per year. 1 November 2016, continues the speed that has so far been in producing charts. You do not go up in speed as you had expected, but you continue with the speed that has been, and therefore you will still be able to present a number of charts, also during 2017. I do not agree with Mrs Aleqa Hammond that there have been no advantages for Greenland in having an agreement on American bases in Greenland. The energy alone in securing a sufficiently good service contract at Thulebasen demonstrates the interest of Greenland in having American bases, also in economic terms. It is the case that when we have a delegation negotiating with the United States in this area, we live up to the agreement we have. And this means that the negotiating delegation, which will be from the Kingdom of Denmark, consists of Denmark and Greenland against the United States on the question of whether to have a new and improved service contract. We have had discussions with the United States as to whether they will live up to the agreement that has been reached, and we have made it clear that they will do so in the future. I am sorry if I did not manage to go into all the comments that have been made there have been many but I hope that we can continue a good and active dialogue on the many issues. And I thank you for the great interest that has been shown in the government's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181353	Thank you very much, Minister. I think that hope is being fulfilled because there is at least a possibility that some will now come up with follow-up questions. We start, first it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. No, I'm sorry, sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181408	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for the statement, as I did in my rapporteur's speech, and then regret that every time we have a talk about the Arctic, we must have a little song from the north about how bad Denmark does it, how much we do not live up to, and how we, together with our allies, have always fucked up and stepped on and humiliated. I find that very, very regrettable when we have such a debate here. On the other hand, I would like to say that there are so many other things we can address: all the climate, all the security issues. It may be that we agree between the five countries that here we are talking... [Sound emission]... the Russians have a military base up against the area, the Americans have it qua Greenland etc. And we just have to say that if anyone else gets an interest in this area, it's so big that I think it might be that you want to try it out. And we also know that an agreement is only an agreement until it is no longer. I am thinking in particular of Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181522	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181525	I am of the clear conviction that it is in the interests of the Kingdom that we have an American presence in the Arctic and an American commitment to the Arctic region. I also think it is in our interest that we have a cooperation agreement with the United States in the military field on the North Atlantic, including bases in Greenland. It is the case that the escalation of Russian presence by military means, symbolically so far, is not contrary to the agreement that has been around Ilulissat on how to clarify border migration. But if it could get there, as Mr. Henrik Brodersen like suggests, namely that an agreement is only an agreement until it is no longer, then it would be nice to stand with strong allies in the discussion that must come afterwards. So, although there is no indication that the Ilulissat agreement is not being complied with, it does not harm to prepare to stand as strong as possible in any given situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181626	Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181628	I am very pleased to hear that, because it does not necessarily have to be those who live around the area. And we cannot regard it as our water either, because it swells on our shores. There are others who can have so many interests, special interests that they think: why don't we try this off, go up and see what's there? The Chinese are everywhere. It was also at one point that they had to run mining operations in Greenland. Well, there are so many forces at stake here, so we have to guard ourselves. Then, of course, it is good that we have the dialogue, but we also need to be at the forefront of the fact that once people can see that there are special interests here that can be nurtured for their own gain, dialogue is not always enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181720	That is also why we insist that we should have close cooperation with the United States, but cooperation in which the United States must, of course, live up to the commitments they have made it is clear that this includes the obligation that the service contract at Thulebasen should be placed in a Danish-Greenland company. In relation to mining, I would just like to say that it is still my view that the most realistic operators on a possible mining operation in Greenland will be among other things. Chinese companies or companies having all or part of Chinese interest. We must not, therefore, refuse to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181756	So that's Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181758	Thank you very much. When I made my first speech here in the Folketing, I said that it is very important to me that when you make some criticism, you are also constructive and come up with some solutions. That is also the way I am as a person, and the way I think you reach everyone the longest in politics. That is why I would also like to start by recognising some of the measures taken by the government, among others. in relation to this, ensuring that Greenland is represented when there is this annual meeting with the ambassadors. I certainly hope that you will continue to do so. Something else is in relation to the satellite and communication equipment that the Minister also mentioned: it is indeed something that can be of benefit to the people of Greenland, and that is why I think it is very nice that a great deal of involvement of Greenland has been ensured in the work that you are doing. So I would like to acknowledge the government's work for that. As far as the European Union and seal skins are concerned, we have had a debate like this over the last few hours. At the Arctic Circle meeting Great Greenland gave a very fine presentation which actually made me more worried than I was before, because in reality it is not only about the EU banning seal skins, but also about the fact that more and more countries are starting to have a ban on seal skins. From the European Union's point of view, we would like there to be certification, but also to ensure that there was more information. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181920	Thank you! It's coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025181923	First of all, thank you for your recognition. It is precisely part of the agreement that was made in autumn 2015 that the EU should inform more about Greenland's right to seal skin exports. It is in a commitment. Because it is important when, on the one hand, you have a ban, which there is a majority in the European Union to maintain, but on the other hand, the inuit exemption, which is crucial for Greenland, has that information about it. It has been a heavy time, but it is an agreement that has come home successfully, and it is an agreement that now makes Greenland inform the public and authorities in EU countries that inuit products are legitimate, legal products. This is, of course, something we need to expand and support to ensure that Greenland has as good an opportunity for seal skin exports as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182018	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182020	It is good to hear that the Minister will continue to press for this information to be strengthened, because that is certainly what is needed. My second question is in relation to Pituffik, Thule Air Base, because it really is a matter of great socio-economic importance to Greenland. I mean, I've read somewhere that it's equivalent to 10%. or more of the total tax revenue in Greenland. In relation to the role of the government in a solution, I would like to ask: how will one help to ensure that it is beneficial to Greenland, and precisely to ensure that Greenland's interests are also safeguarded in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182100	It is crucial for us that we have a united position, agree on the side of the Danish Kingdom on how we work together. From the outset we have said and agreed with the Americans that when we discuss this issue, Denmark and Greenland negotiate side by side. We'll hold on to that. And we will ensure that it is implemented when we have to have a dialogue with the United States in the near future on how to create a new service contract that meets what has been agreed from the outset, namely that it should be a contract that is based on a Danish-Greenland company, a contract that helps to create benefits for Greenlandic society, not only economically but also educationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182143	Then it's mr. Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182146	I agree with the Foreign Minister that, as things are at present on the political stage, it is true that one voice is coming out as a player in this game, but although cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Greenland has been very good for decades in all areas, it may well be that interests differ. We can just take an example. If the sea grows, it can be an opportunity for a Faroese fishing skipper, and unlike for the Greenlandic hunter with a dog bucket and a sledge, it can be a great challenge - that is, what happens in the same sea. Therefore, you can find yourself in a situation where interests differ between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Has it been calculated how to deal with such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182258	Making an impact assessment of an unknown situation is very difficult. If you have to make an impact assessment, you have to know what kind of situation you have to deal with. So I cannot offer such an economic impact assessment, but I can tell you how we will deal with such a situation. We will deal with it by the fact that the areas of the Kingdom that are most at stake are also those which, like the leader of the floor, are helping to set the course for the decision to be taken in the Community, but if it is an area where there is not a single party that, like the largest part of the responsibility, is cooperation as usual. This is why we see that sometimes the Faroe Islands sit in the Danish chair, sometimes Greenland sits in the Danish chair, and other times Denmark sits in the Danish chair, so to speak, when you look at where it is that the Kingdom of Denmark has chairs in the negotiating room. We have so far succeeded in finding solutions where we bow to each other and find common ground, and we believe that if we have an active will to seek cooperation, we can still do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182411	Tórbjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182415	Part of the reason for the question is that I know of some complications that occurred some years ago under NATO, where the interests of Greenland and the Faroe Islands went against each other, but that is quite another matter. What I am going to ask now is: I do not understand why this Turkey trade agreement is included in this statement on the Arctic, but it does not matter. What I would like to ask is the EU Trade Agreement, which has not been revised for many years in the Faroe Islands, and the text shows that the Danish Government supports modernisation of the agreement. Does the Foreign Minister know anything about the outcome of these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182514	We have taken the other trade agreements as examples that the External Action Service is the entire foreign service of the Kingdom and that we also assist and negotiate trade agreements on behalf of other parts of the Kingdom community than just Denmark. This means, of course, that, in relation to a renewed trade agreement between the Faroe Islands and the EU, we are trying to create the best possible framework for the Faroe Islands. It is an agreement with which it is a heavy one at the moment. This is an agreement with which we are pressing and which we hope we will be able to clarify positively over the coming years, because the Faroe Islands deserve a more modernised trade agreement with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182555	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182556	The Foreign Minister has been quoted in Politiken on 10 September as saying that when the Russians want to negotiate overlap of the continental shelf requirement at the North Pole before the continental shelf commission has given its opinion, he will categorically reject this requirement. I would like to ask whether this statement by the Foreign Minister is coordinated with Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182633	If you look at the statement, you can see that we have already started a dialogue with Russia. But it's a dialogue. It's not a negotiation. When I put it that way, it is because we cannot negotiate an agreement with Russia until we know what other approved requirements are in this area. When agreements have been negotiated with Norway and Iceland in the maritime area south of Greenland, it is because all parties who had an interest and had a claim were ready to sit down and negotiate. We cannot have an independent debate with Russia on how to clarify the border crossing in the area around the North Pole, because it requires other countries to be involved. But, of course, we have an open dialogue, including a dialogue on which we are in close contact with Nuuk and the Greenlandic ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182734	Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182736	Is the dialogue with the Russians coordinated with Greenland? I'm gonna ask you about that, too. The Foreign Minister says that Denmark is part of the declaration on the Arctic High Sea. But it applies to quote: Kingdom of Denmark in respect of Greenland, with the United States, Norway, Russia and Canada. For Greenland itself has the fishing competence, and Denmark is part of the EU and has its own fishing competence within the EU. I would like the Foreign Minister to clarify why the Foreign Minister says that Denmark is part of the declaration on the Arctic High Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182816	It is so that when I stand here as Foreign Minister, I stand here as the Foreign Minister of the Kingdom. This means that when we enter into agreements, we also enter into agreements on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark in respect of Greenland in respect of some agreements. We conclude agreements for the Kingdom of Denmark in respect of the Faroe Islands in some areas and we conclude agreements for the Kingdom where it does not concern Greenland and the Faroe Islands. However, when we talk about high-sea fishing, what Mrs Aleqa Hammond mentions is an agreement reached on behalf of the Kingdom as far as Greenland is concerned, and not as far as the rest of the Kingdom is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182852	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182854	Thank you. It was mentioned along the way in the debate that there are not only those uncleaned bases in Greenland, but that there are 63 old bases in the Arctic. What action has the Minister taken to find a common solution to this problem, and in what forum has he done so, and when does the Minister think that a solution will be found? And if the United States does not want to pay for such clean-up, who will?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182923-2	I have to say I don't know what kind of bases that is, sir. Christian Juhl is referring to. The number of 63 bases in the Arctic area is not something I have been familiar with before today, and therefore nothing I have been able to ask questions about in given fora. So it must therefore be necessary, if you are going to have a detailed answer, to put the question in writing, with the possibility that I might be able to look into the matter, since the figure 63 that I have heard about today is new to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182952	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025182953	Okay, but I guess we all agree that there are at least some people in Greenland who need to be cleaned up and that the same problems apply to the waste there. If the Minister can answer it with Greenland so quickly, it is also fine in the first place. The second question is: when will the charts be completed? So, when have the local Danish problems been solved so that you can live up to the agreement with Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183021-2	It is the case that I believe that the agreements reached on the American bases must of course be complied with. We are currently examining Camp Century and what the challenge really is with it, and we will come back to that as soon as we have a clarification in this area from the Danish Ministry of the Environment, and there will of course then be cleaned up. In terms of charts, it is the case that the agreement on charts is still under way. 32 charts have been produced and 41 have yet to be produced to cover the deal. This will not be achieved until the end of 2018, but we will try to achieve it as quickly as possible thereafter. Although there is a relocation of jobs in Denmark, the sea survey continues in Greenland with an activity level that is at least at the same level as in previous years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183120	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183121	Thank you. I think this should be the case in an Arctic context, and it is also the case that 1 + 1 + 1 provides more than 3 because Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark have a synergy effect which gives everyone an advantage. There is the large area in Greenland that makes Denmark an Arctic player and part of Arctic 5, we have the Faroe Islands on the threshold between Europe and the Arctic, which is a very important location, and we have Denmark with the much greater diplomatic strength that one has, and therefore I am very pleased that the Minister recognises that it is a huge problem that the Faroe Islands' trade agreements with the EU are so bad and that we have a huge need to improve them. For the consequence is that the Faroe Islands are now exporters of raw materials, as an African country many times is. The customs wall on the 25 per cent. This means that many of the money made in the fisheries sector in the Faroe Islands cannot be invested because it is not possible to invest in processing plants and it is an attempt to invest money outside the Faroe Islands, for example. in Germany. It creates jobs and income there instead, and that is why I very much welcome the outstretched hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183240	Thank you. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183241	We will try to live up to that. Because it is in our interest to do as well for the Faroe Islands to be able to sell their products on the European market as possible. I believe that this will not only be in the interests of the Faroe Islands, but I also believe that it will be in the interests of Europe. I believe that free trade also promotes opportunities for consumers in Europe who will have better access, for example. Greenlandic processed fish. This will benefit public health, as we need to eat more fish, in other words for the sake of European health.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183311	Sjúrður Skaale? No. Then we go to Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183316	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I am thinking of the fact that we have talked about international agreements and we have talked a little about borderless problems and commercial fishing. I am, as I was also in my rapporteur's speech, curious to hear whether the Minister is interested in working for a legally binding agreement or whether he is satisfied with the present declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183350	I would like this to be a legally binding agreement, but what is most important to me is that there is an agreement. In fact, what I am seeing is that the countries that work together on the Arctic area comply with the agreements they make. We do not find it difficult to get people to live up to agreements. Whether they are the so-called search and rescue agreements, or they are other agreements, they are met. Because we know that it is in everyone's interest to respect the agreements that are concluded. So the most important thing for me is the content of the agreement, more than whether it is a legally binding or a political agreement. Because I believe that the agreements that have been concluded will be respected, as have the previous agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183436	Thank you. I agree that an agreement is better than no agreement, but it is not always the case that agreements are respected, one might say. But it is good to hear that the Minister is actually interested in it if there was a possibility of a legally binding agreement. Then I think about the future of Thulebasen and how it fits into the government's Arctic strategy. I'm quite interested to know if that's something you can tell me about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183504	We believe that it will benefit both Denmark and Greenland and the Kingdom in its entirety if there is a defence cooperation agreement on an American base in Thule. Historically, but also forward-looking, we have an interest in continuing the security cooperation that has brought peace and stability in Europe, between Europe and the United States across the Atlantic, including with Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, to strengthen and expand, and this will continue to require cooperation on Thulebasen. The cooperation agreement that exists must, of course, be complied with, including with regard to the service contract which has been under discussion for up to several years now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183549	Thank you. Since I do not see that anyone else has asked to speak, the debate has ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20161025183602	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 26 October 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
