ParlaMint-DK_20160415100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Laura Lindahl (LA) and Marianne Jelved (RV) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 188 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social credit cards). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Question No. F 35 (What can the Minister say about the increasing use of community service by the courts as a sanction in cases of serious violence and sexual crimes, and does the Government consider the extended access to community service in such cases as were made possible in 2015 to be appropriate?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100042	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100113	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Anne Paulin, the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100149	The financial crisis clearly showed us that well-functioning capital markets are not something that comes of itself, because it takes political action to ensure that there is proper transparency in the financial markets and that it is not the imagination but the mind that limits the financial sector's activities. That is why the Social Democrats are also very much in favour of the measures contained in the Market Abuse Regulation, which we see as an important step on the way to creating greater confidence in the financial markets. The financial crisis also showed us that financial systems can be very vulnerable to the contamination that can quickly occur in the circulation of cross-border trade. That is why it is also so important for us to be able to work together at European level to achieve common and sustainable regulation and strong protection for investors. Among other things: We welcome the fact that there will be enhanced supervision of a number of the financial instruments that have been poorly regulated in the past. The same applies to the supervision of the so-called algorithmic trade, where technological developments have made it possible to make financial action incomprehensible quickly. We very much welcome these and many other measures in the Market Abuse Regulation. We are also in favour of the partial ban on distribution commissions. In the past, social democracy has warned against a total ban on communication fees, because we fear that this will damage the access of smaller investors to financial advice. That is why we believe that the proposal is a very good place for the partial ban, so that in future it will also be possible to increase dissemination fees if there is a real and quality improvement service or advice. Similarly, we think it is very reasonable that in future it will be easier to understand what the real costs of buying investment certificates and possible advice are. We are also aware that the majority of the consultations have generally been positive and look forward to further consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100352	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100400	Thank you. I can, in fact, continue in the same place as the Socialist rapporteur stopped. However, I do not want to say that we will absolutely support this legislative proposal as it stands, but we certainly believe that the draft law is one of the better ones that has come in relation to the fact that part of the legislative proposal is based on an EU regulation. However, in the Danish People's Party we have the clear policy that every time we get these regulations and things that need to be implemented from the European Union, we do not choose to start from what the European Union thinks, we sort of start from what we think and what we think benefits and benefits Danish consumers and Danish companies etc. And that is also the basis for our assessment of the specific legislative proposal, which, as the Socialist rapporteur said, contains a ban on the provision of information and on the implementation of the elements of the market abuse regulation. If you look at it historically, it is true that we have had a financial crisis for many years in Denmark, and one of the ways in which we got through the challenges of the financial crisis was, among other things, that there was great confidence in the Danish financial sector, both as regards the people who came and wanted to invest funds for Danish interests, but indeed also for foreign stakeholders who wanted to enter the Danish market. However, there has also been a high degree of consumer confidence. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we are going to a bank either as a borrower, but also as an investor, and buy products, as we know, it is, of course, associated with a high degree of trust. In other words, when you invest your often very priority funds, your pension savings and other savings, inheritance, etc., it is important that you have confidence in the people who handle your private wealth. As I have said, this bill contains the part about communication commission, and the parts that lie there about strengthening investor protection, Dansk Folkeparti can therefore agree. And if you look at the second component of the market abuse regulation, you can see that what it just means is a series of legislative changes that ensure that supervision is improved, but also that investor protection and transparency towards the people who invest is improved in that area. So, overall, there are a number of good elements in the proposal. But we would like to be a little critical, among other things. In relation to the fact that it also says very nicely that it is expected that it can mean 1 billion. kr. less. Today it is the case that you pay about 3 billion. kr. in these fees, and it's always nice when the fees get smaller. 1 billion kr. is true for virtue a lot of money, but I might have a presumption that you might find that some of the banks will try to find other places to channel their income opportunities. But that will have to depend on a closer test. I also think that, in relation to some of the many very in-depth consultations we have had, there are a number of those which I think have raised at least some questions. There are, among other things: the Consumer Council's report, which deals with fee models, why could they not also apply in other areas in relation to the advice given to banks? And reference is also made to the models that you have in other countries, both the Netherlands, Sweden, the United States and the United Kingdom, and elsewhere where you have some more requirements for the people who sell investment products. And there you actually think it would be quite appropriate for people to have a good opportunity to know: I pay something via some transmission fees and some fees in connection with my purchase, but it is not always that I get information about what the bank then gets in revenue from the other side. That is also what we know from other industries. The Danish Shareholders' Association is also looking at it, i.e. this communication commission. So, of course, in connection with the committee work, I would like to dig a little deeper into the discussion about precisely the communication commission. Basically, however, we are in favour of the overall legislative proposal, and I believe that we will end up voting in favour of it. But that doesn't change the fact that we want these things clarified before we take a final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415100850	The draft law, as has already been mentioned, contains two main lines. The first part, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, is a follow-up to the financial regulation area on top of the financial crisis, in which we have taken a large number of initiatives to ensure that some of the mistakes that were made are not repeated, so that we can create a more efficient market where there is more transparency, openness, where, as an investor, we are sure to get the information we need and where no one can hide anything. So it is simply a question of strengthening the market that is so crucial for ensuring growth in Denmark, but certainly also throughout Europe, and therefore it is also some of these things that we are very much regulating at European level. That is some of the technical explanation why we are now dealing with this bill. If you are going to spend a moment on technology, I would say that this is because the market abuse area was previously regulated by directives. Now it becomes a regulation. It then gives some secondary legislation plus the tightening ups that lie in it. It makes quite sense that these rules apply uniformly at European level by means of a regulation. What may have attracted more attention with the bill is the part about communication commissions. The government has chosen to do so, and we are very much in favour of doing so in the Left that we are doing a directive-by-law implementation of what should be possible and what should not be possible in terms of dissemination fees. It is, of course, a balance which must ensure that, as an investor, you are sure that you will receive proper, thorough and objective advice, but also ensure that advice is given. Following on from what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, I would say that it is assessed, in the light of the experience gained in some of the countries where a total ban has been imposed, that there is a risk that investors will simply not get any advice at all. Experience is very much that smaller investors are left without advice. I don't think any of us think that this is a desirable situation either. That's why it's all about finding a balance. That, then, is what the proposal proposes. If there is advice, there is the possibility, but if not, there will be a ban, and this will create more transparency and certainly also a better competitive situation and thus also the possibility of a better return for investors. We all have an interest in that. One last thing I would like to spend some time on is that in the last few days and weeks there has been a discussion about the entry into force of this proposal. I have to say that the desire of the Left to ensure proper investor protection is no reason to delay. But if we can find a practical solution to some of the issues that have been raised about paperwork and information and other matters, that is something that we in the Left will be looking at constructively in committee. To sum up, I would like to say that it is quite reasonable elements that are included in the legislative proposal. It protects us from some of the ills we saw during the financial crisis and ensures that our markets work better, and also ensures, with the ban on the provision of services, that investors have a better situation and a better competitive situation. So basically, this is a quite sensible proposal, which we of course support from the Left. I have promised to say that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415101254	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415101302	In the Enhedslisten, we are also in favour, but we believe that the last part of the proposal for a directive on the provision of services could go further. There are several good things in this legislative proposal which, of course, concerns the implementation of the new regulation on market abuse, and there are also positive elements in the MiFID II directive on dissemination fees, but we would like to see the second part, which I mentioned just now, go further. To start with the first part on the market abuse regulation, I would like to say that we think it is a good thing that, for example, we should do something about the market abuse regulation. emission allowances are now also being covered in Danish legislation. We also welcome the fact that the new regulation also deals with a number of other financial products. That is, for example, the case. derivatives. And it also handles the reporting of senior employees' transactions. Derivatives were, after all, a very popular speculative object up to the financial crisis, so it is very positive that you look at it more closely. It is also good that the bill makes it clear that you can be fined or sentenced for serious offences. We think that's good. We also think, as we read the draft law, that there is a strengthening of the whistleblower system, since all employees are now covered by anti-discrimination safeguards. At least that is how we read the proposal. If that is correctly understood, it is positive. However, there is a part of the draft law that we think is slightly unclear. It is about the following, where it says: "The obligation of Article 37 of the Securities Trading Act, etc. In order to draw up internal rules on the purchase of issuer's securities and the processing of inside information, it is not proposed to continue, since this is only a Danish rule. The Ministry of Business and Growth does not want these rules to be continued. And a little bit along the same lines, it says elsewhere: "The purely national requirements for issuers' internal guidelines in Section 37 of the Securities Trading Act etc. for the sale of securities by employees, it is not proposed to continue. Does it put Denmark in an unchanged situation since these internal rules are now covered by the regulation, or does it simply opt to drop what the bill says about these internal requirements for internal guidelines? If the latter is the case, then at least on the part of the Enhedslisten we think it needs a more detailed explanation, and that is something we are going to ask ourselves in connection with the work of the committee. Then there's the communication commission. We recognise that this is progress. However, as a few other rapporteurs have also mentioned, we could actually go further. At the moment, of course, this is a market that is poorly regulated, and the banks that typically manage investment funds, as it is now, have a rather unfortunate mix of interests. The banks, for example, have the banks. an economic interest in advising people to invest in the securities subject to commission, while securities not subject to commission do not give money to the bank in the same way. That is why, in principle, when there is commission in the picture, it is not possible to be sure that the bank advises properly on what to invest in. The higher the commission there will be on an investment certificate, the greater the incentive the bank will have to recommend it. It would be nice if there were always a link between the highest commission that the bank receives and the best investment proof for the customer. But since this will not necessarily be the case in all situations, there may be a distortion, so the bank chooses to tell people that they have to buy this investment certificate or invest it and that way, because it is really sensible, but the reason is that the bank recommends it because the bank thus earns more money. What is worse, banks' commissions can also mean that they can ignore how risky investments are. There have been examples that banks have neglected customers' requests for a certain risk profile and without informing the customer have invested in more risky papers, precisely because it gave a higher commission. We therefore agree with the Consumer Council that the best way to eliminate commissions would be to eliminate them altogether, such as for example. has done so in Sweden. In any case, this is something that we will also enter into during the committee's work. And then, in the context of the new austerity that lies in this, we would like to look at how the Minister intends to prevent some kind of distortion from taking place because of different commissions. How are we going to keep an eye on this in the future and ensure that it will not happen if the legislative proposal is adopted as it stands here? Overall, we want to take a positive view of the part relating to the market abuse regime, and we are somewhat more sceptical and would at least like to delve a little more into the distribution commission part. We look forward to the further work in committee where we can have some questions and clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415101804	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415101822	Thank you so much. It's a bill like this that makes it a good idea that there are more readings of legislative proposals in the Folketing. This is quite a complicated bill. My colleague has gone through some of that. Basically, it is about two things: a partial ban on dissemination fees and the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation. We have noted that this is a minimum implementation and that this is something the government has done a great deal about. So there is also a thorough preparatory work for this bill. We have a lot of questions for the bill. Some of them have already been asked by the committee and, for good reason, they have not been answered yet, but these are questions that we need to be answered before we can finally take a position on this bill. I can say, however, that a precondition for our being able to vote in favour of the legislative proposal is that entry into force is postponed. After all, the European Union has postponed the entry into force of this regulation, and the Ministry has chosen to stick to the original date of entry into force in Denmark, and that therefore presents some challenges on the market. It will be the case that the banks should go out to their customers and inform them that, on the basis of the legislation, they should now change their product, and then until implementation in the European Union there will be what you might call some announcements on the basis of the bill, then perhaps they will have to go out and inform their customers again at a later stage. We do not think that makes sense, and we also think that if the government is to be true to its desire to implement minimum standards, it must also apply to entry into force. So I would say that is a prerequisite for us to be able to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, which is likely to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415102042	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415102054	The debate on communication commissions has been going on for some time now, and I am actually glad that we are now having the opportunity to discuss it here in the Folketing. This is, of course, a discussion that is not only relevant in Denmark, but stems from an EU regulation that we must then try to implement in the best and wisest way. The comments to the bill state that the European Commission's initiative aims to strengthen transparency, market integrity and investor protection in the financial system. And, of course, we are all in favour of that. I think it is time we looked at the Danish communication commission model. We have a model with some unfortunate structures that creates less transparency for the consumer and in many ways do not support a market with competition. That is why I am pleased that the government has now made its bid for a model. The draft law prohibits banks and other providers of investment products from receiving and keeping commission payments from third parties in the case of either portfolio management schemes or a pool scheme or where a bank provides investor advice on an independent basis. I believe that the draft law is a step in the right direction, but also that it raises several questions. Why, for example, do we have to do this? do not impose a general prohibition on dissemination commissions for portfolio arrangements instead of this model where the money is to be paid back to the customer? In any case, I do not believe that this helps to increase transparency for the consumer. At the same time, you can go further and ask yourself why only parts of the bank's advice should be included in the draft law. If you want to create transparency and protect investors, why not ban dissemination fees for all advice and instead introduce a fee model that has been successful in other countries? This will provide consumers with better advice, focusing on the best interests of consumers, when the bank does not make money by recommending certain investment funds. It will also minimise risky investments and fast trades, which in the current system are to the advantage of the bank. At the same time, of course, it will also lower costs for consumers, which, according to the 2015 report of the Working Group, has doubled since 2001. It will also ensure that bank advice does not appear free of charge, as may be the case today, when the customer is not always advised about the costs. In addition, it will provide better opportunities for other consultancy companies to enter the market. I am well aware of the arguments that dissemination fees help to protect small investors, so that customers with small fortunes are also ensured to be able to obtain advice. But I think it is important that we look to countries such as the United States. England and the Netherlands and see how the markets have reacted there. And I hope that this is something that we can look at together in committee work. The last question I would like to ask is Article 24 (1) of the directive. 9, which contains a general prohibition on commission payments which weaken the obligation to take care of the customer's best interests. I do not see how it is possible to distinguish between dissemination commissions that create conflict of interest and dissemination commissions that do not create conflict of interest. In my optics, there will always be an economic incentive on the part of the bank to recommend the investment funds that pay the banks these commissions. Perhaps that is something the Minister can answer, and otherwise I think that is something we should also look at. All in all, of course, it is a step in the right direction. We are also in favour of the overall proposal, but we hope to be able to clarify more solutions in the committee's work. For the alternative, the most important thing is that we have the right model now, so that we do not have to change the models again in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415102450	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415102458	Thank you very much. Having been through a financial crisis, it is clear that we are thinking that we all had a responsibility for what happened and that we all had a responsibility for things to go as they did, and that is why we have had a long period of reflection also in the political area, where we have made a number of rules to ensure that we do not end up in similar situations. It has been very important, and I also think it is important that we then think that we do not make rules just for the sake of the rules, but that we do so with a view to protecting consumers, protecting investors, protecting the stability of our society, but also at the same time ensuring that we do not do something that makes everything more expensive and more difficult than necessary, because the financial sector is, as such, a sector that plays a huge role for the rest of our society and for it to run around so that we can get investment for many of the things we want. With the legislative proposal we are debating today, what we are doing has been thoroughly examined. We implement, among other things: a regulation on market abuse and what is called the MiFID directive in a fine word. There we have also discussed why it is wise to make a partial ban on dissemination fees, because it provides the right balance between protecting investors and ensuring advice to all customers. But when we look at what we are doing in here, I think we should also think about the fact that it hits a reality out there, and in Denmark we have therefore chosen to have a date of entry into force in 2017, where the EU has not actually put forward the last rules at this point and therefore will probably decide that you can wait until 2018 to bring this into force. On the radical side, we think it is worth listening to the fact that you are actually worried about getting out two sets of rules, two sets of rules where you first have to put into effect what you have to do and make agreements about. This could affect up to 300,000 people, and you have to choose business model without knowing the final rules as a sector. This means that there may be such a great deal of confusion both with customers and with them having to have two rules and with regard to transparency, and this could cost quite a lot of money for the sector, up to 100 to 150 million. kr., and we know who's gonna pay in the end. So, although we all think it is important that it should come into force, I also think we have a responsibility as politicians to think about and say that when the final rules are not even clear, you do not know what to do in the sector, we should not consider whether we should not wait for this to come into force, probably like the rest of the European Union, until 2018. At any rate, we would like to call for this from the Radical Left, so that we do not create unnecessary bureaucracy and costs for the many, many people who have chosen to be investors and ensure that there is money for our small and medium-sized enterprises and our large companies, and they can get out and create jobs. So we are going to ask questions about this here in the legislative process and hope that there will be sensitivity for it among the other parties and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415102812	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415102823	If someone is sitting out there behind the screens and coming along, I understand if you get confused by all these directive names and abbreviations and that it all seems very technical. But basically, as my colleagues have already mentioned, we are dealing with some of the essence of the huge crisis we have been through in the form of the financial crisis. If anyone would like a little more entertaining insight into what has happened, I can recommend the film "The Big Short". It is truly thought - provoking and also entertaining. It also gives a frightening insight into the fact that this is probably not the last financial crisis we have seen either. Lots of strange creative financial instruments are still gone out there, and new ones will probably be invented as well. Basically, we are very positive about this implementation, which is a minimum implementation, of this regulation on market abuse. The draft law then implements the market abuse scheme in Danish law on the basis of a minimum implementation basis. This is something the government is very concerned about. I would like to point out, as some of my colleagues did in the past, some of the consultation answers that have been given, particularly from the Danish Shareholders' Association and the Consumer Council Think, which does not believe that the proposed bans go far enough. The Consumer Council Think of a product-neutral fee model such as in England, Holland, Sweden, the United States and Australia, where the consumer pays a direct fee for advice instead, so that we do not get into the situation that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and several others also mentioned that there is, of course, an incentive to choose what the counsellors would like you to choose if the commission is high enough. We think this is a very good idea from the SF. And then you have to smile a little at some of the remarks when, for example, we have to smile at some of the comments. It is said that industry representatives from the two countries have spoken against England and Holland, who believe that there is a so-called advice gap, i.e. if there is no automatic advice as a result of the ban. In other words, there are investors who cannot or will not pay for advice at the risk of making investments that are not for their own good. That is precisely what we are discussing today: people are being pushed in a direction that is not necessarily for their own good because there is a conflict of interests of rank. In fact, I think it is positive that there seems to be a relatively large consensus here in the Folketing. And I would like to say that we in the SF feel that this proposal could be significantly better if we incorporated some kind of model of what the Consumer Council is proposing, and if we could gather support for it, perhaps we could also look at the date of entry into force, as I have heard from certain parties. But the SF will propose in committee that we look at the Consumer Council Think and produce an amendment which we hope we can jointly make in committee, so that we do this proposal from the government better than it already is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415103146	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415103156	Thank you for the many comments from the parties to the bill here, L 159. It can be said, as many rapporteurs have already said in the various rapporteurs' speeches, that the draft law contains two elements in general: the implementation of rules on commission payments, etc. and implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation. Let me start with the rules on commission payments. Today, when Danes invest through investment funds, they pay through the investment funds a billion dollars to the banks in so-called intermediation commissions. This dissemination commission shall, inter alia: cover the provision of advice to the bank about its investment as an investor. This is fundamentally positive, as there is clear evidence that this advice is important for private investors. However, investment funds also pay intermediation fees to banks when investments are made through so-called portfolio management schemes and pool schemes, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned here today. where customers have authorised their financial institution to invest on behalf of the customer. It may be in connection with a child's savings or a pension scheme. Thus, in these cases, investors pay for advice which they do not receive. This is what we are now doing up to in the draft law, by prohibiting the receipt and retention of dissemination fees in two cases: 1) when independent investment advice is provided and 2) when an agreement has been reached between the customer and the company on so-called discretionary portfolio management or pool arrangement. The draft law thus significantly strengthens investor protection while addressing the issue, which has been debated for a long time and has been the subject of thorough committee work lately. The proposed model is an expression of a balanced solution in which, on the one hand, all customers are guaranteed access to personal advice and, on the other hand, they do not pay for anything that they do not get. The rules, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, are also an expression of a directive on the implementation of MiFID II rules on commission payments. In addition, the draft law imposes stricter requirements on the information on costs and commission payments by banks, etc. must provide to their customers equivalent to the requirements set out in MiFID II. In addition to the legislative proposal, I will of course also start discussions with the sector on how to ensure that all customers have increased access to good and easy-to-understand investment products, including cheap passive investment products. In relation to the question of the market abuse regulation, the second element of the draft law aims to strengthen financial regulation and supervision of financial capital markets in order to ensure their proper functioning and effectiveness. It is a condition for economic growth and prosperity in society that the financial markets are well functioning and that the public also has confidence in the markets. Market abuse damages the integrity of financial markets and, above all, public confidence in securities, etc. The bill implements those parts of the Market Abuse Regulation that require transposition into Danish law. The Regulation contains, inter alia: rules on disclosure and dealing with market abuse. At the same time, a number of rules are repealed in the Securities Trading Act, which will henceforth be governed by the Market Abuse Regulation. Let me also comment on just a few of the points that have been made. One of the points raised today by a number of rapporteurs is, of course, that during the hearing a discussion has been raised as to whether the date of entry into force is right and the most sensible, in relation to when the final EU regulation is in place. After all, we now have a dialogue with, among others. a large number of the organisations concerned. And I would like to signal here today that this is, of course, a dilemma because, on the one hand, we want to give consumers better opportunities, which a rapid entry into force will mean. After all, we are talking about a possible saving for consumers of approx. 1 billion kr., and that's really, really much money. This is something that most parties often care about when we talk about ensuring the best conditions for consumers, that consumers also get cheaper products. On the other hand, of course, it is also important that there should be an opportunity to adapt to the rules that exist in a sensible and appropriate way. That is why I have also noted that there are parties that want to discuss these parts of the proposal. I also take note of this overall, and I am pleased about it, and I would like to sign for both the clear speech by the Social Democrats and their support for the bill and, above all, the comments which have fallen on the Left, Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. And then, of course, we will have a discussion about what a number of parties also want, namely whether to have a total ban or not. I think it would be wrong to impose a total ban on the basis of the arguments, among others. has been put forward in the draft law. However, I am also generally politically of the opinion that if you get advice, there must of course also be the possibility that you pay for it. So I think that the model outlined here is both fair and reasonable, but of course we can always have political views on that. Then I also note that some have been asked, you might say, technical questions, among others. from Rune Lund on Article 37 of the Securities Trading Act, and I will of course come back to that in a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415103755	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415103800	Thank you. From the liberal point of view of opting out and opting out according to what is best for consumers, I would actually say that the Minister should sign up for the Consumer Council Think of the proposed model, namely that you pay a direct fee for the advice you choose and not pay if you opt out and that it is independent of the type of advice you receive. Because it should not be so much harder to advise whether it is one or the other product. This will ensure that consumers and investors are not misled. So I really cannot understand the Minister's arguments against it. So will the Minister not try again to tell me how it gives a less free choice to take the proposed model from the Consumer Council Think?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415103905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415103907	First of all, in the legislative proposal, we have emphasised what a number of rapporteurs have actually also mentioned and, as I would like to stress myself, that is to say, a directive on implementation. For the government, it is important that we both support and provide consumers with the best possible conditions, but that we also do this in a way that I think is appropriate. And I have to say that in the distinction between the proposal made by the government and the comments made by the Consumer Council, I think that the government proposal makes absolutely the most sense. I must then ask the rapporteur to clarify what the problem is with what the government has put forward. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur said in his speech that it was possible to go further in relation to the whole question of whether more people should be subject to a total ban. And, as I heard the rapporteur, the rapporteur suggested that a total ban should be imposed, and I am therefore opposed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104012	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104014	Well, I get that. What I am asking the Minister is whether he will make some arguments to the effect that the model proposed by the Consumer Council is, therefore, where it is product-neutral, where you pay directly for the advice you receive and where you can choose or opt out from a good liberal point of view, should be a worse solution than this, where the only argument is, of course, to secure some more money in your pocket for the so-called advisers. That's the only argument. Otherwise, the Minister will have to convince me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104051	I do not know if I am able to do so on the basis of historical knowledge as to whether I can convince Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of anything. However, I can certainly say that what is behind the proposal, and what I also argued with, is that we want to allow financial institutions, when they provide advice, to also receive an economic reward for it. And I have to say, what is the problem in that? What is the problem in the model outlined? I simply cannot see what Lisbeth Bech Poulsen could have against it, other than that I have noted that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is proposing to support a total ban, and I am just against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104129	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104133	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I would like to repeat the question which I also raised in my speech and which I think is important. So I really just want the Minister's reflection on this, on how to distinguish between dissemination commissions that create conflict of interest and dissemination commissions that do not create conflict of interest. If a person is paid to recommend something special and not for anything else, is there automatically some kind of conflict of interest in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104208	Well, I think I would like to try to elaborate on that in a clear written answer, in order to highlight just some of the points that are being made here. I also noted that the alternative mainly thinks it is a legislative proposal that is moving in the right direction, but perhaps would like to see further clarifications and further tightenings. However, I would like to answer this whole question with a few examples, so that it is made clear what is the understanding of what the draft law says. And, of course, I will pass that on in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104239	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104300	The debate is open, and the word is the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415104316	There must be no doubt that the safety of children must be given a heavy weight. This is absolutely crucial when we deliver our children and young people, as we do, in public institutions and in voluntary sport, etc. This is also why the Children's Certificate Act makes it compulsory for authorities and companies to obtain a children's certificate when they have to hire a person who has to have direct contact with children under the age of 15. This scheme therefore includes both volunteers and employees, including educators and educators in day care and leisure facilities, day care providers and foster families, staff at 24-hour institutions and social pedagogues, teachers and staff in schools with pupils under the age of 15, lifeguards in swimming halls as well as coaches and scout managers. This rule on children's certificates seeks to amend the proposers so that it is clear from the law that the child certificate must contain information on certain sex crimes committed against children under 15 years of age in the last 10 years in order to be valid. Well, the new thing is that the child certificate must contain information covering the last 10 years. That is not the case today. This will have an impact on a great many recruitments. In 2010, around 246,000 certificates were obtained from the police criminal record, 64 of which were positive, that is, with remarks. In 2015, a comparison was made with approx. Three hundred and fifty-five thousand certificates, 93 of which had remarks. That's like 99.97 percent. of the children's certificates obtained were without any comments. The government sees this as an indication that the child certificates actually work as intended. They prevent former convicted children from seeking positions where a child's certificate is to be obtained in child abuse proceedings. So the existing system is, as the legislators intended it to be, and it seems to have a certain effect, even though fortunately only a very few people have comments on their children's certificate. That arrangement may of course be supplemented, but the consequences of the motion for a resolution are very wide-ranging and raise some important issues. As it is today, it is not a condition of validity that the child certificate should go back ten years. The 10-year requirement laid down in the motion for a resolution will mean that no one, regardless of nationality, and that is to say, Danes who have lived in the country throughout their lives, can be employed in a position that includes contact with children under 15 years of age before they are 25 years old. No one under the age of 25 can deliver a child certificate covering the last 10 years. As you know, the criminal low age is 15 years, and 15 plus 10 is 25. If the resolution is implemented, therefore, it will have very far-reaching consequences both for the opportunities for young people to take part in important tasks in society and therefore also for employment in the field of children and for the number of volunteers in sport and association. To draw a picture of how many people will be cut off from working with children if a 10-year requirement is introduced, I can inform you that the National Association of Municipalities estimates that there are approx. 200,000 people working with children under the age of 15 in the municipalities, and of them approx. 25,000 between 15 and 25 years. As you know, about half a million people work in the municipalities. In Sports Denmark, more than 27,000 volunteers under the age of 20 are engaged, corresponding to a 10% share. of the volunteers in Sports Denmark. In addition, there are approx. 100,000 volunteers aged 20-39, corresponding to a proportion of approx. 27% Scouts also engage a great many volunteers under 25 years of age. In addition, the proposal will also affect private companies in particular tourism and cultural and experience industries. This applies to amusement parks, playgrounds, bathing areas, riding schools, dance schools etc. The proposal also raises a problem as to what information can be obtained from other countries, because as it is today, the police do not send enquiries to the authorities of other countries when a child certificate is issued, and this is useful, for example. I would ask you not to ask in Sweden, because in Sweden there is no similar arrangement at all. As I started by saying, there must be no doubt that the government is paying heavy attention to the safety of children. Parents must be able to leave their children in the care of institutions and associations without being worried. However, the government's position is also that the consequences of the resolution on employment in the field of children, for the private sector and for voluntary association and sport will be too far-reaching and without added value. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. I would suggest that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport should instead present a report on how good experiences in the municipalities and sports associations can be disseminated. Because there are a lot of them. In any case, the government would like to raise the matter with the National Association of Municipalities, if desired, and possibly other relevant stakeholders, with a view to discussing the spread of good, practical arrangements that can supplement child certificates that go back less than 10 years. I know that there are already municipalities which supplement child certificates with several other criteria before they recruit, for example. refugees in the field of children and youth. This applies to municipalities such as Hedensted and Roskilde. In sport, too, there are measures such as: association policies that mean that a fugitive is not alone with children's teams, but has a co-trainer or mentor. After all, a child's certificate is merely a basis for information. It must never stand alone... so it is today... no matter how long it goes back. An overall assessment must always be made of whether a person has the right qualifications to be able to work with children under the age of 15, and the child certificate is only one of many means for this assessment, and it does not in any way exempt the hiring authorities and associations from the full responsibility for hiring the right people who can take care of the children in a safe and sound way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105122	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105129	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's presentation. I am pleased that the Minister is saying that there should be no doubt that the safety of children must weigh heavily, and we in the Danish People's Party also fully agree that child certificates cannot stand alone. However, can the Minister not agree with me that when 93 positive certificates can be found in 2015, as the Minister says, it is a good tool, and can it not worry the Minister, when in the municipalities you hire refugees who may have only been here for a few months, and you do not know their background and they should take care of our children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105215	I have just pointed out that the children's certificate cannot in any way stand alone today, and that is why I think it is so interesting to look at what they have already done about the problem in some municipalities, for example. in Hedensted. They have a set of rules that say that the applicant must have been in the municipality for at least six months, so it has been possible to get to know the person, and then they also supplement it with a mandatory introduction to Danish pedagogical thinking and to the Danish institutional culture before an appointment is possible. In Roskilde City Council there has been a major debate which, as far as I know, ended up with a broad consensus that there should be a concrete assessment of the individual and that those who do not have a 10-year-old child certificate should not stay alone with children under the age of 15. There's a lot of things you can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105323	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105325	It is true that there are other measures that need to be taken, but we also know that in a daycare institution where they have employed both educators and educators, it will probably be difficult not to get into a situation where you are alone with children at some given time. And can the Minister confirm that he cannot waive responsibility if there is a case of paedophilia in a day-care institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105356	Those responsible for the legislation are, of course, responsible if the legislation is not sufficient and the municipalities that employ it are responsible. In fact, I believe that the resolution we are debating is a prelude to the fact that the National Association of Municipalities wanted to relax the rules in this area, and we do not have any thoughts on that in the government. On the contrary, we are ready to contribute, as I said, to something that could be a report from the Committee on Culture, which clarifies the responsibilities of the municipalities and, for example, of the municipalities. also, as in Roskilde, that persons without a 10-year-old child certificate may not be alone with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105441	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105446	Thank you for that and I would also like to thank the Minister for the speech. I would like the Minister to be a little more specific as to what kind of arrangements the Minister thinks are so good in the municipalities, so that there were some more suggestions about what it is that you want to supplement and replace these certificates with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105510	I do not want to replace the certificates with anything at all, and the government's position is that we should maintain the existing system, but we would very much like to discuss with the National Association of Municipalities whether we could agree on some models such as this. what has been agreed in Hedensted and in Roskilde, which I think must reassure those who are worried and we are all so that they can safely send their children and young people into public institutions and in voluntary association life. If the government cannot accept the proposal as it stands, it is due to this massive cleansing which it will lead to, of all under 25 years in voluntary association life and in municipal institutions etc. It's a violent effect it wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105615	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105618	Thank you very much. The second and last thing the Minister said, I would just like to comment in my rapporteur's speech, but I would like to ask the Minister now to confirm that if special rules are introduced which apply either to men or to women or which apply only to a particular group, that is discriminatory. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105637	I must say yes to that in principle, but it is always nice to know what it should be used for before answering a question. So perhaps this can be clarified in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105655	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105701	Thank you. The Minister lists a large number of figures on how many certificates have been taken and how many have then had annotation and then concludes that the system is working. Let us try to outline the following situation: A refugee comes to Denmark from a country from which information cannot be obtained, with a 13-year-old pregnant wife. If you take a child's certificate on that person, will there be a note on that child's certificate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105737	I am quite sure that the recruiting authority will be aware of his or her family relationship and take it into account, in addition, that one can of course do as Roskilde Municipality and say that he or she must not be alone with children under the age of 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105756	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105758	In the absence of a reply from the Minister, I can inform the Minister that such a person will not have a remark in his child certificate. At least in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, this is clear evidence that the system does not work. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister whether he would be comfortable to let someone with such a sexual morality work with children and young people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105824	I do not regard municipalities as naive and gullible. I am sure that the recruiting authorities will be involved in the management of institutions, and in association it will be a question of sports managers who will be particularly attentive. This is also why it is said in Hedensted Municipality that the person must have been in the municipality for at least 1⁄2 years. That is one of the reasons why we need to know the person and know if there are worrying circumstances surrounding the person we need to be aware of. It goes without saying that the fact that a 13-year-old woman has been pregnant does not appear on the child certificate, because other countries do not have that scheme, and that is also true of Sweden. Nor can we be told whether there have been any conditions in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105919	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415105924	Thank you, Madam President. I would actually like to sign for the Minister's stories and explanation of here in the Danish Parliament why the government does not intend to support the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. Of course, I do not understand the Minister's arguments, but others may. The minister has four times referred to Hedensted as the great, excellent example. I myself come from Hedensted and sit on the town council in Hedensted Municipality and have been involved in dealing with the agreement that lies. There I would like to say to the Minister that the agreement that we voted against in the Danish People's Party also says that it is true that we will ensure that the individual asylum seekers who come into the municipalities and, for example, those who do not have the right to vote in local elections do not have the right to vote in local elections. is employed in a kindergarten, only to a lesser extent will be able to be alone with the children. The agreement also states that it will seek to ensure that it will primarily be women who will be employed. Already there I think that we are conflicting with our equal opportunities legislation in Denmark. To me, discrimination is not a way to practice in the public sector. The municipality obtains a children's certificate on the future employees concerned who must be employed or internship, but that does not change the fact that it is not worth anything. The certificate given to the municipality is worth nothing, and I think the Minister should comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110049	It is always a huge advantage in debates like this when some of the participants know the real life out there in the municipalities. I know, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is in the council of Hedensted. Apparently, he did not agree with the guideline agreed by the other parties. I hope he does not mind me mentioning the municipality of Hedensted as a municipality that has been in the shoes and has discussed it here in time and taken a stand, as Mr. His Kristian Skibby unfortunately seems inadequate, but which is at least an answer, although Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby then does not agree with the whole answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110136	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110138	It is quite true that I do not agree, and I am not for the primary reason, which I think is very logical and which is about the way to catch up with these children's certificates, such as foreign citizens who come to our municipalities and who have to work in a kindergarten or in a crèche or anywhere else in the public sector. The municipal authorities claim that everything is in place, that everything is in order, because a child's certificate has just been obtained from the police. Our appeal and criticism are quite specific, of course, that the children's certificates are worth nothing when it comes to the possible employees in the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110221	If the person comes directly from abroad, there is no child certificate; that is quite right. It's complete as if it's a very young Dane. Then there is no child certificate. In these cases, it is reasonable that special attention should be given to agreements, and it may be by saying that they should not be alone with children at all. This is quite drastic, especially in a crèche, but it has been adopted in Roskilde City Council. I also see that the municipality of Hedensted has this rule that one should know the person that he must have been the municipality for at least 1⁄2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110319	Thank you. Then we have a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110327	Thank you. I do not know whether the Minister remembers that, but when this child certificate was introduced, a great many people were, in fact, initially prevented from working with children, i.e. people who had some convictions behind them, thinking that they should not be with children, for example. had just been convicted of paedophilia. So that means that as a preventive measure, the child certificates are really, really, really good. But, of course, there will be a large flow of refugees to Denmark, which one way or another has to deal with, and there is the fact that we in the Danish People's Party ask the minister and the government whether it is possible to ensure that the child certificates continue to be a preventive measure to prevent paedophilia, if it is that the so-called child certificate is not worth anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110432	But it is already the case today that the child certificate is absolutely not alone. A blank child certificate is not something that relieves the municipality or the head of the institution of responsibility. That is already the case today. There is even today full freedom to hire someone who actually has remarks on the children's certificate, which one must hope to do in a reassuring way. So today it is simply the recruitment authorities that have the full responsibility, and if they do not get the tool for quite young people and for people coming from abroad that they can look back ten years, then they must pay extra attention, and that is what some municipalities are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110519	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110521	If it is true that some municipalities today have the freedom to hire people in a kindergarten to be educators or the like, who have remarks in relation to past paedophilia, then I would say that there is something wrong with our system, and I would at least personally ensure that this is followed up, because I do not think that is right at all. Having said that, there are also some parents here who, to such an extent, can look forward to now being nervous: what if a fugitive comes in exactly my child's kindergarten? Of course, you want both as a parent and as a Dane to help with integration, but what will the Minister say to the parents who are now worried because you cannot count on the child certificate which has then been printed to ensure that people who have been previously punished for paedophilia or the like do not have to work with children? What will the Minister say to the parents who are concerned now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110616	I can assure Mrs Marlene Harpsøe that the government is just as interested in full security and is just as concerned about whether anything should happen. That is why I stress time and time again that this child's certificate does not relieve the municipalities of any responsibility whatsoever. Neither is it today, and it cannot stand alone; it has never been able to do so. The problem raised here by the Danish People's Party, which I understand Danish People's Party has raised, must then be dealt with with with other security-building rules as to what to do in the cases in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110659	Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415110709	For the Socialists, it is absolutely essential that we, as a society, as the authorities, do what we can to ensure that our children and young people do not suffer abuse and are subjected, among other things, to violence. sexual crimes in schools and institutions and in the many associations and leisure services in which children and young people participate. That is why, from the outset, we have also supported the introduction of the children's certificate system, which has now been working well for ten years. And when I say fine, it is because it is of course regrettable that there are still cases where there are remarks on certificates, but in 99.97 per cent. In the case of children's certificates, then, the children's certificates are negative. So it works, and we have seen that it has helped prevent a number of people with a stressful child certificate from accessing children and young people. I also think we have been able to see in the years that have passed that voluntary association has been very concerned about preventing all forms of abuse. The collection of these children's certificates, as the Minister for Culture also mentioned, is just one of the tools that you can use. Information, association policies and counselling are others. As DF's resolution is drafted, it will exclude too many people in Denmark under 25 years of age from working with children and young people. We have heard the figures: the 25,000 under 25 who are in jobs in the child and youth field; the 27,000 immediately under 20 years who work in voluntary society; and we count them by over 20-25 years, that is many, many more. Even in some changed form, the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party would have serious negative effects both on the integration of refugees into jobs in children and young people and in society, but also on many, many people other than refugees, because it is not possible to obtain adequate documentation from other countries in this area when you do not have a system in those countries. So Danish nationals who have resided abroad for a shorter or longer period will no longer be able to get jobs in this area or participate in the community life. Virtually no foreign citizens and we can take Sweden, we can take Norway, we can take Finland • will be able to be trainers or managers in the Danish association work. Yes, even citizens of Sydslesvig will not be able to be trainers or managers in the Danish association work to mention some examples. I do not know if it makes an impression on the Danish People's Party. We can understand from the questions that have already been put to the Minister that it doesn't really matter, as long as you can get some refugees in this context. So we think that DF's proposal creates many more problems than it solves. Others feel the same way. The whole association life is opposed to the proposal, Dansk Industri is opposed to the proposal, LO, FTF, Danmarks Lærerforening • the list is long. It is also the case that if you want to focus on refugees and immigrants and want to integrate them into Danish society, teach them Danish norms and democratic culture, then jobs in the labour market and involvement in voluntary association life are therefore absolutely central. We know this from experience. After all, both the National Association of Municipalities and the voluntary associations have provided a number of tools for how to deal with this. The Minister has mentioned some of them • screening their formal and informal skills, mentoring arrangements, guidelines and information to parents, and thus also clarification of the tasks that refugees may perform, and any provisions that may not be able to be alone with the children. And with these suggestions, maximum safety for children will continue to be ensured, and we are all interested in that. So we cannot support DF's proposal. However, we are happy to enter into a discussion in the Committee on Culture on how we can send out signals on how some of these measures and sensible proposals already introduced by municipalities and associations can be used in the situation so that we create maximum security around our children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111233	The Social Democrats make it sound like this for the Danish People's Party is all about getting some refugees. It is absurd to claim that, just as it would be absurd for me to suddenly stand and claim that this is what the Socialist Group is all about getting the children. Just as absurd would be, I just want to say that. Having said that, I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether it is understood correctly that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament attaches greater importance to the integration of refugees than the safety of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111306	So, I am very pleased if Mrs Marlene Harpsøe thereby indicates that this is not about the fact that the Danish People's Party just does not want refugees to be allowed to enter the Danish labour market with the tripartite agreement that has now been made about it, or for that matter to participate in association and leisure activities. I think that's liberating to hear. One might also ask whether, in this context, the Danish People's Party is not concerned about all the many people in addition to refugees, who are also excluded from the same thing. For social democracy, it is absolutely essential that we ensure safety for our children and our young people, and we can do this with child certificates. But children's certificates can't be left alone. Other measures must be taken if that effort is to be successful. I have pointed out a number of them here, and these are the ones I think we should try to talk sensibly about in a committee work how we can promote and use around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111407	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111411	Reason is a good word, and I would like to say to Mr. Mogens Jensen, that I think we should speak sense here. What sense is there in the fact that it is just in, for example. kindergarten and in schools, that refugees should be recruited without a real child certificate? It doesn't hold anywhere. It doesn't belong anywhere. There are so many other places where you can integrate, that is not correct, sir. Mogens Jensen? Why should it be precisely in kindergartens and schools that refugees should be recruited without a real child certificate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111443	However, in my view and in the view of the Social Democrats, it should not be only in kindergartens and day care centres and elsewhere. It is just one of those areas where, of course, there are also jobs that people who are not born and raised in Denmark should be able to get. This also applies to Swedes, including Norwegians, as well as Finns. And so there are a long, long number of those who have not lived in this country for 10 years and who with such a proposal the Danish People's Party completely excludes from getting jobs in this area. I don't think it's reasonable. That is why I think we should use other tools in cases where we cannot obtain adequate child certificates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111521	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111526	Thank you very much, President. Sir. Mogens Jensen keeps talking about these good initiatives that are now in the municipalities and that we should talk about them in the Committee on Culture, etc. They want to ensure maximum security for our children, I have noted that it has been said. From February 2005 until 2007 we had the Bedder case. It was a pedophile who violated 14 children in those years. It was someone you knew; it was someone you trusted; it was someone you felt safe with. How can we ensure maximum security in the municipalities with such measures, which are actually similar to those already taken at the time in Prayer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111610	Well, unfortunately, we probably have to answer the question that you can't guarantee anything either as far as people who have a clean child certificate are concerned. You can't do that in this world. We must therefore work with tools to ensure that we do everything we can to ensure that these cases do not arise. After all, I would say to Mrs Pernille Bendixen that when you look at what has been obtained from children's certificates, the many, many thousands of children's certificates have been obtained and you can see that out of them is 99.97 percent. It is a good thing that this is a system that works. And then we must complement the other measures that I have outlined and which the Minister for Culture also mentioned. I think we should then sit down and try to figure out how to spread the good tools to all municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111720	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111724	What would it be like if we did not exclude all these people who are being talked about from Schleswig, from Sweden, from the whole area of voluntary service? We have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. Mogens Jensen is also aware of the fact that I personally sent it to Mr. Mogens Jensen, who actually explains that it was not the intention of B 72 that we should exclude all these people. That's not our intention. But if that were not the case, that is, if you could now have a child certificate that was adequate, for example. A three-year period and it was a young person, could the Social Democrats vote in favour if it were in our proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111801	But the Social Democrats are happy to enter into discussions, including on possible new proposals on how we can ensure that children and young people are not subjected to abuse. I have already indicated that we would be happy to do so. But I also think it is important to encourage the Danish People's Party to listen to all associations in this country: Danish Industry, LO, FTF. Pretty much the whole of Denmark is turning around, as far as I can judge, here in the Chamber against DF's proposal. So let us sit down and discuss what else we can do together, rather than being stubborn about something that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111841	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111848	Thank you. If the rapporteur now says that there are a lot of foreigners that are excluded by this, then I can inform the rapporteur that there are almost 460,000 immigrants in this country who will be able to show a child certificate and get jobs in the private sector. I would like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur will not agree with me that it is a bit funny to use the children's area precisely to integrate all these new ones and thus create an insecurity for children. I would like the rapporteur to take the view that there are a great many foreigners in this country who can easily take a job in the field of children, including in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415111938	Of course, I think it is very positive that this is the case. But I also think it is important that when you make a proposal in the Folketing, you look at what effects it has, including unintended effects. And there is the proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here, that is to say just a large number of unintended effects, where I think you will hit a lot of people that there is no need to hit. So there is no reason, in our view, to do so when we can point to some other tools for achieving exactly the same thing. And there is what I think we should listen to the municipalities and the associations that have experience with this and then sit down and find out how we can promote the use of those tools across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112032	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112035	It's just a little wonder, since we've made rules that as a Dane in this country you have to show a certificate and that things you've done in your past will be standing for 10 years on this certificate, so things that you might have done 91⁄2 years ago can prevent you from getting a job... that we then discriminate Danish citizens for the benefit of newcomers who have been here for 3 months. I'd like to hear about that. At the same time, I would like to know whether not one paedophile case in a daycare institution is one too many, including for the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112115	I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber, either parties or Members, who do not think that one paedophilia case is one too much. Of course, that's the way it is. And we need to use all the tools we have at all to ensure that such abuses do not take place. But we should not hit people unnecessarily, and so we will hit many, many thousands of people unnecessarily if we adopt the Danish People's Party's proposal. That is why the Socialists cannot support it. There are other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112149	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112155	Thank you. 59 times during 2015 it was registered that refugees who came to Denmark brought underage wives. It is therefore only those who brought their wives; not all those who have fled their families have been included, and where we have no idea what family relationships they have in their home countries. And it is of course touching that the Social Democrats are so concerned about Danish Industry that one is willing to disregard the concerns of the children and young people who could get into the hands of one of these people who, in my opinion, have a terrible sexual morality. Is it just like watering a goose to present those arguments to the Socialists? Is there no regard for the children in the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112250	No, it's not like beating water on a goose. I fully agree that it is highly problematic and also unacceptable that in some places you can marry and have sex with children. It's totally unfair. It's something we need to get rid of. This is one of the things we are working on with Danish development aid in a number of places in the world, and where the Danish People's Party is now helping to reduce the effort. So that is, of course, a pity in the context. But I have to say that the problem and challenge will not be solved with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here on child certificates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112337	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112341	It is regrettable to hear from a party which, in the election campaigns, is showing up as a friend of the children. Unfortunately, that is not what is then practised by the Socialists. I have not yet heard an argument against a 10-year period, other than what my colleague has already mentioned, namely that there will be an amendment that will address those problems. I have not heard a single argument against the 10-year period that we are imposing on everyone else. Is it absolutely impossible to get through to the Social Democrats in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112423	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112426	I hope it will not be impossible to get through to the Danish People's Party, which stands all alone, as I can see, with this proposal, both here in the Chamber, but also in the community, with us discussing tools that work, not tools that unnecessarily and unfairly affect a large number of people who do not need to be affected if you use other tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112502	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112508	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. Both the proposal and the reasons for putting it forward are well explained in the proposal. It is very important for me, first of all, to stress that the Left is at all times very concerned about the best interests and safety of children. This is true in every conceivable sense and therefore also in relation to schools, leisure associations and all the other institutions to which this motion for a resolution refers. And we must never compromise on that. That is why I fully understand the reasons for this proposal. Having said that, however, I have to point out an obvious problem with the proposal here. The motion for a resolution calls for a child certificate to go back ten years. This will mean that no one under the age of 25, whether from Denmark, Germany, Syria or a whole fourth country, can deal with children under the age of 15. This is because, as you know, the age of the criminal low age is 15 years in Denmark, and therefore a child certificate can only be issued from the time when a person has reached the age of 15. If the resolution is implemented here, therefore, it will have a major impact on employment, particularly in the children and young people sector, both in paid employment and in day-care institutions, but also in voluntary contexts, in association life, and I find this extremely problematic. Denmark is already one of the only countries to actually use child certificates, and it is both important and right that we do so, but it also underlines that we are far ahead in this area and far ahead in the area of strengthening our efforts to combat child abuse. In the opinion of the Left, the current rules in the children's certificate scheme fulfil their purpose: to prevent people who have previously been convicted of violating children from working in places where they are in direct contact with children under the age of 15, but we must always look at how we can supplement and improve existing arrangements, and we in the Left would very much like to contribute to that. That is why, under the auspices of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I would also like to look at how we can improve the children's certificate. It may be by supplementing a number of criteria, such as: to a greater extent we can ensure uniform treatment in the municipalities. In view of the problem of this 10-year requirement, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, but I would like to conclude by stressing that I look forward to constructive cooperation with the Danish People's Party in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112855	I am very pleased to hear that the Left is prepared to be constructive. I would now like to ask one, I think, constructive question of which I think it is important to clarify. After all, we have seen that refugees and asylum seekers are coming to Denmark, which is so much of an authority, but which brings a child bride that is perhaps 13 years old and pregnant. Should a person who is so old and has married a child and even made this child pregnant be allowed to work in a Danish kindergarten or in a Danish school? What's the answer from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415112944	I had hoped that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe would have listened a little to what I said in my rapporteur's speech. I am addressing the proposal that has been put forward and that will exclude not only refugees, but all Danes under 25 years of age from working with children • all Danes under 25 years of age! That is the position with regard to the proposal before us today, and that is what I am dealing with. That is also why I think I am making an effort to say that I would like to look at how child certificates can be improved. I would like to work on this in committee, but I cannot in any way support a proposal which has these unintended effects on our association life and will exclude everyone, not only refugees, but also Danes from working with children. I have to deal with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113043	So if we in the Danish People's Party tabled some amendment which accepted the Left, then we were actually prepared to vote in favour. Is that what I'm hearing? So, if it is that the Danish People's Party is tabling an amendment which exactly meets the Left on this particular point, then is one ready to put the children at the forefront and vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113108	In the left we always put the children in front. When it is the case that I reject it here, I would like to repeat it. It is precisely to put the children in the front line so as not to prevent the leaders of the associations they meet in the associations from being over 25 years old. But to answer Mrs Marlene Harpsøe's question, I cannot stand here and say that I will vote in favour of any amendment. It depends entirely on how it is prepared. Quite frankly, I think that the Danish People's Party could have made the effort to have tabled a resolution which was what they wanted us other parties to vote for, rather than saying here at the back of the line: now we are coming up with something, will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113145	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113152	I admit that if one uses the most bureaucratic and most vicious interpretation of what we have put forward and really does not want to support it, then one can read it out of what the Left and the Socialists have so far read out of it. But let's face it. Let's say we change it and cut it into corrugated paper, so all other parties are included. We can say that a 16-year-old must present a certificate for the last year, a 17-year-old for the last 2 years, an 18-year-old for the last 3 years, etc. etc. until it reaches the age of 25 and then, where you have to have a certificate for the last 10 years. If you turn it into that, so that it is cut into cardboard, so that everyone is involved, would the Left be able to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113240	I would say that I will not stand here and commit myself to supporting anything until I see it in writing. In fact, I think it would be appropriate for that amendment to have already been in my inbox now if I had to consider whether or not I would support it. We in the Left would very much like to take a look at these children's certificates. We would very much like to help to see whether uniform treatment can be given, or some criteria can be added to the municipalities so that there can be uniform treatment. We'd like to go inside and see if these certificates work well enough. But I would also like to emphasise that Denmark is one of the most secure countries. We're one of the only countries that has a child certificate. And when we voted for that law in its time, it was actually because we supported it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113336	I regret that the Danish People's Party had too high thoughts about our colleagues' ability to understand what we wrote. We will see to it that further clarification is made. I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Left says that the Left is putting the children at the forefront of this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113402	I was just so shocked that there really wasn't a question. However, there should be no doubt that we are putting the children in front of us, and I think that in my rapporteur's speech I have also made a great deal of effort to say that we would like to be involved in giving this constructive treatment in the committee, because we will. And we would also like to see whether these child certificates can be supplemented, updated, can be made even more secure. So there should be no doubt that we are putting the children in the forefront of this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113433	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113437	Thank you very much. Mrs Britt Baker says that the Left puts the safety of children first and that we must never compromise on that. We in the Danish People's Party of course agree with that. I would just like to ask whether Mrs Britt Baker would claim that a missing or blank child certificate is not precisely to compromise on the safety of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113506	If I am to understand the question put by the questioner, the acceptance of a child's certificate stating that there are criminal acts is to compromise on the safety of children, I would say yes. That is to compromise on the safety of children. I am not sure I understand the question put by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113536	There's a certificate that the refugees can get today. It's blank because you can't account for their past. If you choose to hire them anyway, would Mrs Britt Baker say that it is not already here to compromise on the safety of children with a blank certificate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113556	What I have to do with this proposal that has been put forward is to exclude everyone across the board. Everyone under the age of 25 is excluded from working with children. I think I have stressed in my speech that this is why we do not support this proposal. I also think I have stressed that we are willing to look in committee at all the possibilities of making this child certificate even better. So I actually don't know what to do to satisfy the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113627	The next brief remark is from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113631	Thank you. Then I would like to follow up on what my colleague just asked before. In fact, it was a question that could easily be answered without going into long explanations. Can the rapporteur not confirm that when you obtain a completely blank child certificate for a newcomer refugee, it is to compromise with children's safety yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113659	I can repeat what I said just now. We're actually willing to see if we can optimize this area. We are also willing to see if these child certificates can be prepared in a better way. Having said that, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party should consider that Denmark has taken the lead in this area. Denmark is one of the only countries with child certificates. We are one of the only countries that has such secure legislation. So when the Left voted in favour of this proposal, it was because we agreed that the safety of children should be given the highest priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113740	If the rapporteur will not answer this question, I would like to ask another question and follow up what the rapporteur says about Denmark being one of the only safe countries. Does the rapporteur, at the same time as the rapporteur's party in the government, not want us to continue to be one of the safest countries? Can it not be that with what we are seeing now, in other words with the relaxation of the requirements for these child certificates, we can risk getting some cases that do not actually stand at the top of the list of safest countries for children, in other words countries where they avoid violations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113818	I simply have to start by rebuking the questioner, because it is not true that there is so much as one relaxation in the area of child certificates. We haven't relaxed in that area once. Having said that, to answer the first question, it is basically extremely important to me and to the Left that Denmark should continue to hold the tab high as far as child certificates are concerned and stand in the front line to avoid child abuse. That is precisely why I am also willing to have a discussion in committee on whether we can improve the children's certificates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113900	We thank Mrs Britt Baker, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415113915	Thank you. I will start by stating that Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. However, there should be no doubt that for us it is absolutely essential that we ensure the protection of children in municipal offers. Children must be able to be associated with professionally qualified staff and, of course, they must be protected against abuse of both sexual and physical nature. And in this respect, we would like to recognise that child certificates are a useful tool. As you know, child certificates ensure that persons who have committed offences against children do not come into direct contact with children under the age of 15. Child certificates just can't stand alone, and neither can they. Child attestations are part of the assessment basis for establishing an internship, employment or voluntary relationship. There are many other factors that need to be assessed before an employment relationship can be established, and it is clear that the fact that it has not been possible to obtain a child certificate which goes back ten years is an important factor to be taken into account. That is why we also think it makes sense if the government and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media want to have a dialogue with KL to find out how we can ensure that the municipalities do not come to ports in a grey area compared to this, and that we can take advantage of the excellent examples that already exist around the municipalities in order to get this right. However, the fact that there is no child certificate going back ten years may be a problem, both in relation to, as has been mentioned earlier, citizens who are under 25 years of age and in relation to Danes who have been living abroad. This may be a problem with foreign trainees or with refugees where it has not been possible to obtain valid information, and it is clear that there may be a good reason to clarify the legal basis, so that it is not always possible to obtain that information from foreign authorities. However, we believe that the proposal put forward by the DF sets out all too rigid requirements. It is important to say that when we demand child certificates, it is not in itself a guarantee. Child certificates are part of the basis of assessment, but they can never stand alone. At the same time, a specific individual assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis before an employment relationship or an internship is established. That is why we think it is a little premature because no one has referred to this as a problem. It is not the case that people in Association Denmark or around the municipalities don't care what kind of people you set up an employment relationship with. Of course, efforts are being made to clarify that basis as thoroughly as possible, and none of them have asked for this tightening. And there the Minister has already mentioned the good examples from Hedensted and Roskilde Municipalities. At the same time, we also believe that there is an important consideration for legal certainty. It must be a precondition that we are regarded as innocent as a starting point. The fact that, for reasons beyond one's control, one cannot obtain a valid child certificate should not mean that, for that reason alone, one is excluded from the possibility of working with children and young people. There is no reason to try to stigmatise a group just because they have not spent 10 consecutive years in a country where it has been possible for the authorities to obtain a valid child certificate. In conclusion, I would like to say that we must ensure that people are praised, especially when this is not something we have so often been able to do, so I would like to pay tribute to the Minister not specifically because it is him, but because it is rare that I have the opportunity at all to praise a minister from the government. But I would like to commend him, because in an answer to the children's councilman from the municipality of Aarhus, Bünyamin Simsek, who was part of the reason why this issue was raised at all, writes: "Children's certificate is an important tool for the employment and employment of people who need to have contact with children under the age of 15. But a child's certificate cannot be left alone. As I have said before, I am confident that the municipalities will exercise the necessary caution in these cases and that they will do what other employers can to hire the right people. I can only agree entirely with that and I think it is well worded. That is why I must say that the Enhedslisten does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114339	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114345	Thank you very much. The rapporteur says that child certificates are an important tool among many and that they must not be left alone. So far so good, we agree there. But can the rapporteur recognise that if that tool is lacking, then the demands have been relaxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114413	No, I do not believe that the demands have been relaxed. I believe that this is a fact that must be included in the treatment of those who have to hire or enter into an agreement with citizens who wish to enter into an internship or participate in the association life. It seems to me that this is something they do not care about both in the municipalities and in the community life. Actually, I don't think they are. I think they are looking very seriously at this, and I think that the fact that a child certificate cannot be obtained ten years ago is quite clear to them, and I think they take that seriously. That is why I do not quite understand why it should be made a problem, we have to discuss it here in Parliament, because no one has raised it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114455	Some have done so. There have been some examples in some municipalities where there has been a complete disagreement about this problem. So someone has raised it. But that's different. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that if someone has been known for 1⁄2 years and this person has a blank certificate, then it is a guarantee that it is supposed to be in Hedensted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114517	Well, there's no guarantee of anything. Also, if you have a child certificate that goes back 10 years, there is no guarantee that nothing can happen. We can't give guarantees like that. I am quite sure that neither can the people who have to hire staff in Hedensted Municipality. However, I am absolutely convinced that the people who have to do this job are doing all the thinking that is reasonable in this regard. And in the consultations that have taken place, no one has raised a strong desire for us to change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114549	A brief remark from Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114553	Thank you. The rapporteur says in his speech that we should not anticipate the course of events. Then I would like to hear what the rapporteur means by that. Is it the case that the rapporteur believes that from in here we should sit on our hands waiting for us to see some bad cases in Denmark with children who have somehow been molested before we do anything? What is to anticipate the course of events?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114627	Of course we shouldn't wait for something bad to happen. I really don't think any of us in here are interested in that either in the Danish People's Party or in any of the other parties. What I mean is that if we have to start dealing with something that might be a problem, then it has to be because someone is pointing out that here we have a problem. And I know no one but the Danish People's Party has pointed that out. In the consultation answers there is no indication that this is a problem and that it needs to be changed. Some people have pointed out that it may be a problem that the municipalities or associations sometimes come into a grey area because it is unclear. And there I think it is quite appropriate for the government to have a discussion with KL about it, in that we can use some of the good examples that already exist in the municipalities. And that is what I mean by saying that we should not anticipate the course of events. We can be at the forefront, but we should not start inventing problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114714	I think there are many municipalities who think that they have a problem and have a problem here, both this year and next year, because 50 000 refugees have arrived in the country for which they have been required to find both housing and jobs. And then we know that when you have to find jobs for some very quickly, jobs that are not already there, it is often in the public sector that these jobs need to be found. So I just want to hear the questioner whether the questioner does not think that there will be problems out there, because you now have to find positions around the world, and that is also in the area of children's rights for people you don't know with a blank child certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114751	It is Mrs Susanne Eilersen who is the questioner, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund, the rapporteur, is responding. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114803	Thank you. Well, it is quite true that the municipalities are facing a huge task, and it would be nice if it were the case that the Danish People's Party would also recognise it and help send out some more money to the municipalities, so that they had the opportunity to solve that task. So, of course, there is a task for the municipalities to get these people into employment or to help them further in education. A huge effort is already being made in the job centres to do this, and so I have complete confidence that this task is one that the job centres and the municipalities are doing everything they can to solve, also on a professionally sound basis. I have no reason to believe otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114839	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415114849	With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion will ensure that a child certificate is always obtained which goes back ten years if you are to work with children under 15 years of age. Since it is often impossible to obtain the necessary documentation from other countries, it will have the practical consequence that incredibly many people will be excluded from working with children or from participating in voluntary association work. This applies both to foreigners and to Danish citizens who have lived abroad. We can easily follow the authors of the motion for a resolution that there is a problem in this area. The protection that the child certificate must offer is partially out of the question for some people, but it is far too far to exclude so many people from working professionally or voluntarily with children. Of course, you have to go a long way to protect children from abuse, but we believe that it goes in the very wrong direction to exclude so many people from such a large part of Danish society. In other words, the potential gains do not measure the cost at all. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal, and I must inform you that the Conservative People's Party cannot either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115002	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115007	Thank you for the words of the Liberal Alliance. What I would like to ask is that we have seen that, among other things. with asylum seekers have come to Denmark, who are of age, but then bring with them minors whom they have married and even made pregnant. One would almost have to live on the moon if one did not imagine that there would also be cases of refugees in Denmark where the same situation existed. Does the rapporteur think that persons who are, in other words, of age but who have made minors, in other words children, pregnant, should be allowed to work with children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115057	Fortunately, in the real world, out in Association Denmark, there are very, very many sensible people who actually have the intention of caring for the children they work with in their daily lives and make a great effort to do so. We in the Liberal Alliance are quite confident that the sensible people can take the necessary precautions in relation to who they want to work and do a voluntary job in their associations. It's not all the problems we can solve in here from Christiansborg, and it's not in this area either. These are few problems, even in this area we solve by Christiansborg. Most problems are actually solved out among ordinary people who have to deal with these things in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115157	It's not often that I experience Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's not going to talk about it. I think that the rapporteur is usually fairly cash in his statements, but I have to say that here I think the rapporteur spoke out of it. If the rapporteur thinks that the Liberal Alliance would be okay with an authoritative person who has done so, for example. a 13-year-old pregnant, should be allowed to work with children • yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115224	Personally, I would be very concerned about that, but my point here was precisely to say that I think you can make those decisions out in Association Denmark. I am quite sure that you will have exactly the same concerns that I am expressing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115246	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115250	Thank you very much. As I know the Liberal Alliance and the good people of the Liberal Alliance, some people are in favour of liberalism. I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, if he will nod whether he will vote in favour of the introduction of special rules which apply only to some but do not apply to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115320	I guess that depends on the area. That was not such a specific question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115327	In concrete terms, I believe that men should not plow children, that men should not change diapers, that men should not be alone with the child, that men should not sit with the child on their laps, that men should not put a Band-Aid on a scratch. Will the Liberal Alliance accept such measures to prevent paedophilia in a crèche?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115345	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115348	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115359	Thank you. We are dealing with B 72, which proposes tightening up the rules on child certificates. The authors want everyone working with children under the age of 15 to be able to submit a valid child certificate for a period of at least 10 years. Children's certificates are, of course, a sensible protection that ensures that convicted vice-criminals cannot work with children under the age of 15. The information on an offence committed will be included in the children's certificate for at least 10 years today. There is, however, a problem as to whether the certificate should apply to refugees living in Denmark, for example, who have only lived for a short period in Denmark and cannot therefore produce a certificate for a full 10 years. There may be a problem with young people who, for good reason, do not have a certificate that goes so far back. If they work with children and are 22 years old, then there are only 7 years for which they can produce a certificate. Today it is the recruiting authority that decides whether to hire an employee, for example. in a children's institution. The rules on the child certificate state that a child certificate must be obtained, but when the obligation to obtain a child certificate is respected, whether the certificate is positive or not, it is up to the recruiting authority to assess whether they wish to recruit the person concerned. A child certificate is therefore never left alone, and a comprehensive and concrete assessment should always be made as to whether a person is fit to work with children, regardless of whether it is a refugee, a young or an adult Danish citizen. We must, of course, look after our children, but the alternative is actually confident that the municipalities will exercise the necessary caution in these matters. We believe that employers are, of course, doing what they can to hire the right people for work involving contact with children. In addition, the alternative considers it disproportionately to deprive such a large group of people of the opportunity to engage in, for example, the professions or sports associations in which minors are present. Such commitment is, in fact, what leads to positive and successful cooperation. So the alternative cannot vote in favour of the proposal, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the SF and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115629	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115636	It is regrettable that the Socialist People's Party chooses not to give priority to participating in the parliamentary work today, because it is actually a party that has taken a very strong stand on the matter of being those who talk about the good conditions in kindergartens. But then I have to ask the alternative rapporteur whether he will say, on behalf of the SF which he represents today, whether he thinks this is a good way of achieving a situation where there is more pedagogy-child-time, that the kindergartens in Denmark should be used as integration projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115715	I shall by no means speak on behalf of the SF. I just have a message from the SF that they do not support the proposal, and that is just like it is going to. However, I can say in any case that we in the Alternative believe that it is right that as many people as possible should be able to take part in Association Denmark, sports clubs, etc., and if you cannot just show a 10-year certificate, those who go in and hire people must, of course, be responsible for it, and then look at what is needed of other things, to ensure that our children are not subjected to anything wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115750	I am, of course, sorry, and it was also in my quest to find someone who claims in all other contexts that they care a great deal about this area, but who cannot even come forward for a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. However, it should not be the fault of the alternative rapporteur that those whom the rapporteur was supposed to represent have chosen not to come forward and take up the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115816	We will take the next brief remark and it is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115835	Thank you very much. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says that he trusts that employers will, of course, do what they can to ensure the safety of children, and I do not think anyone trusts that. Nor do I believe that we have in any way called that trust into question. But Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is not that we in the Folketing also have the task of helping to create the best framework to create the security and security for our children in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115856-2	Yes, very much, and I also think it might be sensible for us to help the municipalities look at where the good tools are used in some municipalities, so that we can help them exchange that experience. I just think it's very, very important to say that these children's certificates can in no way stand alone. There are also a number of other things that need to be included, and that is where the responsible management in a club or in an institution comes in. Everything is not done with a schedule; there must also be people involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415115930	Well, at least we agree on that. I just have the starting point that all these tools together minus one tool, namely the child certificate, are a problem. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I mean, when you talk about all these tools and all the things you want to do out there, for example. In day nurseries, where they have some really bad standards and where they lack warm hands, I would like to ask: where on earth do we have to find all the resources, all the resources that have to go to monitor that the men are not alone with the children, to make sure that there are extra staff in the playground, because the men are not allowed to be alone with the children and something like that? Where are we going to find all the resources to maintain that level of security?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120009-2	Now I didn't know this proposal was that men shouldn't be alone with children. I thought it was about having proper tools to check that there were no neighborhood criminals or those who would commit assaults on children who had dealings with children in either leisure clubs or institutions, and that is what I think must be the important thing. I have no general fear that men are alone with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120032	The next brief remark is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120036	No, and of course we do not have that in the Danish People's Party either. The point was a whole different one. Having said that, I think that some of what is often said here is that kindergartens and schools should suddenly be the way to integration. Now there are other ways of integrating. There is a huge labour market, and kindergartens and schools, where children actually go every day, are only a fraction of the jobs that are in Denmark. So what would happen to the alternative if we said that in places where people work with children, where there are children, refugees should not be able to work if they do not have a child certificate that goes back ten years? What will be the consequences other than that they will not be able to work in a few places. There are so many other places to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120125	I think it would be a pity for our society if, because of this motion for a resolution, it suddenly became such that young people could not be active trainers in the local football club or that a young girl or boy could not work in a leisure establishment. I think that would be very, very sinful and poor for our society. I think that the important thing here is whether we believe that a child certificate alone is what can prevent these terrible attacks from happening. I do not believe that, and I do not believe that by implementing this resolution we will suddenly be able to feel completely safe. I think it is a false security; I think it is really important that we emphasise that there are a number of tools that need to be used to protect our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120210	If the alternative really believes that child certificates provide false security, is the alternative in favour of abolishing them altogether? I really would like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120225	There I can say: No, we do not. But it gives a false sense of security if you think that they alone can secure us against it. They are one of the tools we use, and that is also what I have now repeated from up here sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120239	The next brief remark is from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120243	Thank you. Now that the rapporteur says that the alternative will not abolish the child certificates, because they are one important tool among many in working with children, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether a child certificate drawn on a Dane or a resident who has been here for 10 years is as valid as a child certificate drawn on a refugee who has been here for 3 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120315	It does not go as far back as it does, and so we cannot see an equally long period, and that is precisely why the child certificate cannot stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120327	Thank you. That also means that there is already discrimination here in the assessments made by one and the other citizen. Then the rapporteur also uses the wording that it is a pity for society. How about saying that it is a pity for children who are subjected to either violence, paedophilia or anything else? What role does it play in this context for the rapporteur and the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120354	I do not think that the questioner can find any people in here or in society who do not care how we protect our children. We simply disagree on how to achieve that protection, and I cannot agree with the authors that this child certificate is the only guarantee that we protect our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120416	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120424	Thank you very much. It has been an interesting debate to follow today. I do not think I hear any disagreement about the purpose, namely to take very good care of our children. We would all like to ensure that the children who are in our institutions and the children who engage in voluntary activities cannot be subjected to paedophilia, violence or other abuses. And that's why we've had a quite well-functioning arrangement for the last 10 years... that's what I hear is also a great deal of agreement on the issue of child certificates. Then it is clear that it is a problem that a number of people who have not been here for 10 years cannot provide the same level of information. But there is also the fact that I have heard everyone today agree on other tools to use here rather than excluding people. For the Danish People's Party can only come up with one tool, and that is to exclude people. When we then tell them that it means that young people under 25 cannot work with children and young people, can not work in the voluntary sports clubs; and when DUF and DGI strongly warn about this, because Association Denmark is as Danish as something we can think of at all • warns strongly against doing what the Danish People's Party says, then perhaps one could look up and ask: Why is it that the rest of society thinks that although we fully agree that we want to take care of our children, this proposal is not the right one? Hands are even being stretched from up here, all the way around, by saying: Let's look at what is of other tools that can be used. DUF and DGI use co-op policy, information campaigns and advice, and they have an emergency service. We know that the municipalities are doing a great deal of work to ensure that the people they employ have a past that is not a danger to the children. Then I would say that I simply cannot understand that the Danish People's Party does not think that it was perhaps worth listening to the rest of society, listening to the voluntary organisations and saying: okay, here we went too far. Here we simply went too far, we will exclude everyone under 25 years of age. We will exclude people who have been abroad for a shorter period of time... Swedes, Norwegians and others simply cannot work with children in this country. But that is not what the Danish People's Party is saying. We then ask them: is it because there is an area where you can go in and say that it is probably the result of refugees and, like, give the impression that all refugees who come here have probably a problematic past? Then the answer is no; that is not what this is about. Shouldn't we solve the problem? Should we not then say: let us talk to the municipalities about what is of other tools? Let us share the experiences between the municipalities that have also discussed this. Let us listen to what the voluntary organisations that have really taken this seriously do. We believe that this would be a much more constructive approach from the radical side than trying to create some conflicts or shoot with dispersal in the way that the Danish People's Party has chosen to do. So, of course, we cannot support this proposal at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120723	Mrs Pernille Bendixen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120726	Now I have to point out again that we have sent out an amendment to counter this by 25 years. I can't believe we have to keep hearing about this. I sent it to all the cultural rapporteurs on Monday. You keep talking about these other tools. What exactly are these tools? So these special rules, which apply only to some and not to others, are discriminatory. So I would very much like to know what it is that you think security can be achieved by introducing rules that are actually illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120759	It is, for example. To make rules that if people don't have a certificate that goes back 10 years, then they can't be alone with the kids. It is a very concrete tool. I am therefore pleased that the Danish People's Party has begun to ask some relevant questions in this debate. I have to say that we are a little on our way away from the policy of symbols. It is also very clever to think your proposal to the end before making it. You might have figured out that everyone under 25 would be hit by this. I also think that the Danish People's Party should think about whether people who have lived abroad for a year should not be able to work with children and young people. I would like to ask the Danish People's Party about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120841	Now I am the questioner, so allow me to ask how many immigrants were in Denmark in 2005.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120849	Now I don't know if this is Jeopardy or what it is. It doesn't really matter what we're discussing today. What is important today is whether we should accept this proposal. We all agree that what we want is to look after young people and look after children. But what we're doing here is keeping a huge group of people away from being able to work with children and young people, and we think that's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120916	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415120921	Once again, I regret that we in the Danish People's Party have overestimated, among other things. The Democratic Left's ability to comprehend. For everyone else, of course, it is clear that the purpose of this proposal is, of course, not to be convicted of having committed child abuse in the last 10 years and, if you are under 15 years old, of course, you have not been convicted within that period. I think that's obvious to everyone who reads this unless you have an active interest in finding, of course, no, not even finding, but inventing a hair in the soup. But if we spell it out, then even the Radical Left is on the ball, so to speak, so to speak, so that we specifically say that a 16-year-old must be able to provide evidence for the last year, a 17-year-old for the last 2 years and an 18-year-old for the last 3 years, etc. Until it reaches the age of 25, and then it is for the last ten years, will the Radical Left be prepared to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121030	I do not know and must say that my comprehension is not enough to understand what it is to be on the ball, but it is obviously something you are in the Danish People's Party. I regret that I just don't know what that means. No, we will not support this proposal because we simply believe that it does not solve the problem. The problem is to talk about what we do with those who can't show a 10-year certificate. There we do that, that we actually secure some other tools and say: How can we make them even more useful? How can experience be shared between voluntary organisations and local authorities in this area? That would be a constructive approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121104	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no more brief comments. Ida Auken He has no. 2. If he needs another question, he'll get it. Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121110	Thank you. Well, I can only regret that. Is this the new radical line that if a tool does not work, you just overlook it instead of repairing it, and then you hope that there are other measures that can remedy the shortcomings that might otherwise be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121134	The radical approach is not to adopt any legislation that does not work and that will hit a lot of people for whom it has no purpose. The radical approach is to say: when there is a challenge here, let us solve it with something that works and not take a very, very large part of the Danish population hostage; do not take people who are under 25 years of age, as hostages; do not take people who have lived a year abroad as hostages; and do not be completely indifferent to the voluntary organisations. I think it should make an impression on the Danish People's Party that all the many Danes out there who work in a football club every day or work in a voluntary organisation say that this is a really bad idea. The Danish People's Party could then listen to it a little and not move forward with its symbol policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121217	I should like to ask if there are any more brief comments on Mrs Ida Auken. There isn't. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121240	In Denmark we have a legal requirement that crèches, kindergartens, leisure homes etc. obtains children's certificates on staff who have direct contact with the children. In fact, it is an idea, a proposal that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen joined us when he was Minister of Culture. So it is an extremely important tool to use when it comes to staff working with children. Child attestations shall ensure that the employee has not previously been punished for sexual abuse against children. We think this is important. We think we should stick to that. But we are challenged by newly arrived refugees. It is extremely difficult, if you come from Syria, to ask the municipality of Damascus or the authorities there for a criminal record. It simply cannot be done. So we're challenged. On the one hand, we want people to get out to work as quickly as possible. Too many people are on transfer income. They need to get started, and we shouldn't let them get started. Anything, too many are too passive. On the other hand, however, we should not compromise on the safety of children either. We cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, but we are leaning on the KL, which says that it can be done in another way, so as to ensure that the people you hire in practice or in work are some who have not been punished in the past. A thorough screening of both formal and informal skills in the field of children can be carried out. Then you can have a start-up meeting at the institutions, where you make clear what the value base is and what standards and rules are being worked under in Denmark. We think that we should go in this direction rather than put our feet on people we want to contribute to this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121451	It's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121453	Thank you. I said earlier in this Chamber that last year 59 cases of refugees who had arrived and were married to minors were recorded. Sir. Naser Khader says on February 9 in metroXpress: "I am outraged. That's what you call paedophilia when you've got a 14-year-old pregnant and are allowed to spend the night with the girl. Those men must be denied access to asylum in Denmark. We can grant asylum to the 14-year-olds, but should kick their grown men out. Now, unfortunately, there is a lack of political will to throw these men out of the country. That is something we can all regret. But will the rapporteur not, at least until we can get them thrown out, prevent them from having access to work with children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121553	I agree 100% with myself in relation to what is being quoted. I stand by that. But it has nothing to do with this case. We're talking about children's certificates, we're talking about something completely different. I have not heard that some of those who are married to a minor, which I think is reprehensible, have sought work in some of those day care institutions. What we need to be aware of is people who have been punished in the past for child abuse. There we must do everything we can to ensure that they do not have direct contact with the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121634	But knowing that we are currently receiving a great many people who come from a part of the world, who have a diametrically opposed view of what is morally right and morally wrong, should we not, in this respect, allow consideration of children to come before the consideration that these people should have access to work with children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121702	We must do everything we can to ensure that people who have previously been punished for child abuse do not have direct contact with children, but obtaining a criminal record is not the only tool. It is also to ensure, when they are about to start at work, that you have a completely proper screening. That's where we have to sort them out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121729	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more brief comments. The next is the rapporteur for the proposers, and this is Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415121740	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister and the rapporteurs for their comments. I am, of course, sorry that we do not agree on this, but I would like to thank you anyway. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 72 is, of course, on our part to tighten up these rules so that we secure our children as much as possible against paedophile abuse. As several have pointed out, a child certificate is just one of several tools for combating paedophilia and ensuring the safety of children. A certificate cannot stand alone, and we in the Danish People's Party of course do not think it should. But the mere fact that we are considering softening what a certificate gives, namely information, is a slippage, and in our view it is a slippage. If it goes wrong just once, it's the kids who pay the price. After all, it is not the case that one hundred per cent is secured against paedophilia when a child certificate has been obtained, but it is certainly a step in the wrong direction that one accepts that blank certificates are good enough. We are very sorry about the interpretation that we exclude everyone under 25 years of age. That is not the intention of B 72. That is also why we have sent out an amendment. One might well point out that we should have seen it; we did not, but now we have sent it out. It is therefore a little strange that we should continue to talk about the fact that we have not listened to the organisations, because of course we have. Our amendment is that if you have been resident in Denmark for the last 10 years, a certificate for a shorter period is good enough, i.e. a certificate of 1 year, 2 years or 3 years. We have also pointed that out several times. I think the Minister owes us a very clear answer as to whether integration really is so important that rules which have worked for many years in Denmark have not been a problem and whether integration is more important than the safety of children. For the Danish People's Party, it is quite unacceptable to hire refugees or others whose past we cannot explain to care for our children. The Minister says in his speech that it is very important to the government that our children can travel safely, but it is obviously not so much a concern of the government that one is willing to tighten up the rules that we already have. You can then ask children's parents whether they feel that it is safe for blank certificates and mentoring systems to protect their children from paedophile abuse. The Minister points out that the police today do not send enquiries to other countries when a certificate is issued. If the safety of children is really so important to the government, then perhaps action has been taken to obtain information from other countries. As regards the Minister's proposal to deal with the matter in the Committee on Culture, we naturally welcome that part. However, I would like to make it clear here that the good experience referred to by some municipalities is, in our view, only good ideas about how to discriminate against people who are otherwise employed in the same position. We in the Danish People's Party have no intention of participating in the spread of special rules which apply either only to men or only to a particular group: men who are not allowed to be alone with children, men who are not allowed to change diapers, men who have to be monitored, etc., or a group of people who are only allowed to do something, while another group has to do something else. This is discrimination and we find it unacceptable. It creates a lot of problems and raises a lot of unanswered questions. Just as an example: who is responsible if a child is subjected to an assault while the person who was responsible for overseeing the wrongdoer missed his job? It is no good for us to relax rules and standards in the name of integration. Children's safety must be above all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122141	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak or to make a brief comment? There isn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122210	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122239	Thank you. Today we are discussing the draft law amending the law on access to healthcare for claims and claims. This is a matter which has been going on for a long time, far too long. In the Social Democratic Party we work for a Denmark based on a strong community that promises the individual and brings everyone along. We work for free and equal access to health and equal opportunities and rights for individuals, whether they are enlisted, conscripted, retired or mother. For me, as a Social Democrat, quality and security for the individual citizen is an important parameter in our health care. There must be the same quality and security for all groups in society and for all citizens, and it is important that everyone has the possibility of uniform access to justice and compensation in relation to our health services. The Patient Compensation Act was adopted in 2003, and then it is time for everyone to have equal access to justice and compensation in relation to our health services. Inmates who, inter alia: treatment in prison health sections has so far not been included in the scope of patient replacement. This has meant that inmates who have been mistreated by prison health professionals have not been able to apply for compensation through the Patient Compensation. It has long been known that inmates have not had that opportunity, and that must now be corrected. It is important that our system covers all citizens' groups and gives equal rights to all, especially those who are the weakest. This is an important matter for our welfare state and in our democracy. Another group, which is also included in the scope of the patient compensation bill, is the conscripts. At the beginning of their service, the guardians hand in their health cards and must use the health care personnel of the Defence and Emergency Services Board during the period of service. They have not so far been covered by the Law on access to justice and compensation in the health sector, but that is now being changed. The Army Constable and Corporal Association, the Central Association of Stam personnel and the Main Organisation of Officers in Denmark, have written in their hearing that they want women employed on military terms to also be included in the bill, so that they also have the opportunity to seek compensation according to the rules of the Law on access to healthcare for claims and compensation if they are injured as a result of the treatment of authorised health services in the Defence and Emergency Agency. In this respect, we note that the Minister intends to include the comments of the associations in the Ministry's ongoing analysis of the scope of the patient compensation scheme. This bill addresses the health inequalities seen in relation to inmates and conscripts who are not covered by the patient compensation scheme. It is an important and necessary recognition of our fellow human beings and an obligation to respect the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. There must be the same security for inmates and conscripts for redress and replacement access in our healthcare system. Many good consultation answers have been given, they have been listened to, and changes have been made, as is also reflected by the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, with the amendment of the bill being tabled at the request of, among others. by the Institute for Human Rights and the Patient Compensation, which calls for the law to also include dental injuries. The proposal increases the quality and security of all groups in society and of all citizens, and it is important that everyone has the opportunity to have uniform access to justice and compensation in relation to health care. That is why the Socialists support the proposal and I should like to say on behalf of the SF that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122626	Thank you to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122634	Thank you. First of all, I would like to agree with the Socialist rapporteur that some people should have done something about this problem in the past, but some did not do so earlier. In the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that the Minister is making this proposal. We have asked ourselves in the past how it could be that you did not have the same rights when you were either in the military as a conscript or were treated in prison by a health care professional. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that we have confidence in the health services and the people who work there, and that is wherever you are in Danish society. Of course, when a doctor or other health care professional makes a mistake, he should be able to complain about the course and receive compensation if the course could or should have been different. If you receive the wrong medicine, if you get a blood test away, or if you do not receive the necessary treatment, we must ensure that it is reported so that we can prevent it from happening again and, of course, you must be able to complain about the error that has occurred. All health professionals are obliged to report it if they witness a so-called accidental incident in connection with their work. It is stated in the Health Act that the reporting obligation applies wherever there is a health professional activity, which will also be at the country's infirmary. Today, when you become conscripted, you hand in your health card, and then you get treatment in one of the country's infirmaries... they are five places in the country... and nine other places the conscripts can get medical consultations. Here the examinations and treatments which would otherwise have been carried out by a general practitioner are carried out. It is a sensible arrangement to ensure that doctors who attend to conscripts are aware of the special circumstances of the case. I have to say, as a side remark, that in my own time as a commanding officer I have seen countless creative attempts to evade service on medical grounds, and that is why it is probably very reasonable that some doctors have an understanding in this area of decision making. In prisons, a prison doctor or a house doctor, usually a local practitioner, has been associated with a prison doctor, and some prisons even have their own infirmary. And in these cases it is often the same doctors who treat within the institutions who do so outside the institutions. And, of course, there should be no difference between reporting an accidental incident or complaining about its course. So the Danish People's Party can fully endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122920	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. There are no brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415122930	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are the first to deal with L 164, the law amending the law on redress and compensation in health care. The draft law will extend the scope of the patient compensation scheme so that damage caused by health care professionals in prisons and detention houses as well as in conscriptions will be covered by the compensation scheme. It is, of course, a totally unacceptable inequality that so far prisoners in prisons and conscripts have not been covered by the patient compensation scheme in the same way as all other citizens in Danish society. The Ministry of Justice has pointed out that this is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. The draft law here now corrects the inequality so that Danish legislation in this area follows the conventions, so that both prisoners in the criminal services institutions and conscripts, who hand in their health cards at duty, are covered by the patient compensation scheme. This means that damage caused by authorised health professionals, e.g. doctors or dentists are covered by the scheme. When the bill is adopted, it would be retroactive and it makes sense that the retroactive effect will be determined in accordance with the general rules of limitation laid down in the Law on Appeals and Compensation, i.e. three years after the person entitled to compensation has been or should have been aware of the damage and an absolute limitation period of 10 years, from the time the damage occurred. The Left can support the proposal as presented so that we comply with the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123122	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. There seem to be no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123133	Thank you. I'll be very brief. The Enhedslisten agrees with the comments that have been made on the proposal and simply notes that in the answers to the consultation there are also only positive statements. It is very positive that the unequal treatment of inmates and conscripts is being corrected. We would also like to acknowledge that, in relation to the few critical remarks that have been made, the Minister has been willing to look at them and the things that have not been incorporated have been analysed in order to clarify and rectify them. So Enhedslisten is clearly positive about this proposal and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123216	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123242	Thank you. Inmates and conscripts today do not have the same opportunities as others to seek compensation if they are mistreated by authorised health professionals. Of course, that is not fair and, in the case of prisoners, it is also contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. This bill will correct that and, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports it. From the consultation answers it appears that the defence in Skive is not included in this proposal. However, the Ministry has indicated that the defence in Skive will be included in the ongoing analysis of the coverage of patient compensation, and I am fully confident that military service in Skive will have the same access to patient compensation as everyone else. Women employed in the army are also not covered by this bill, and this is explained by the fact that, unlike men, women retain their right to apply the general health care system. However, it does not seem very appropriate that they should not be included, as for practical reasons in the organisation of daily work they often use the health professionals of the Defence and Emergency Agency and should therefore probably be included in this bill. But here too, the Ministry of Health has indicated that women's access will be included in an ongoing analysis of the coverage of patients' compensation, and here too I am confident that the law will be put in place so that women employed in the defence and Emergency Response Board will have the same rights to patient compensation as their male colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123423	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. That does not give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123432	Thank you. As has been mentioned, this bill aims to correct the discrimination which the Ministry of Justice has pointed out in response to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. The answer shows that it is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights that inmates in prisons and detention houses of criminal justice are not covered by the scope of the patient compensation scheme if they are injured by investigation, treatment or the like. After all, the draft law allows inmates and conscripts to have their claims tried in accordance with the rules laid down in the Law on Appeals and Compensation, which provides for a more favourable compensation scheme than that provided for by the general rules of compensation of the Danish court. And if there is something important to us in the alternative, then it is of course that we comply with the international conventions that we have signed and ratified. This, of course, applies to human rights, and it also applies to other areas, such as human rights. The UN Children's Convention and the UN Refugee Convention. So once the government has responded here to a reply from the Ministry of Justice that our current rules run counter to, among others. The human rights convention, yes, then we would like to recognise the government for actually acting so resolutely in this area by putting forward the bill. That is why it is quite clear that the alternative supports the draft law. So far, so good. Then there is such a small problem in relation to women employed under military service. I do not want to repeat what has been said, but the challenge lies in the fact that these women do not have to hand in their health cards. Nevertheless, they are encouraged by their workplace to use the military health service, which means that they do not have the same compensation rules under this bill. It may not be a formal problem because they do not formally hand in their health cards they still have a right to health care but, in fact, it may be a problem for these women in relation to what is expected of their workplace. And then we're into something that looks like discrimination anyway. I also recognise that the government would like to work on it. I would like to know about the prospects for the work that is being done in relation to the way in which that challenge is supposed to be met. But with that I would like to say that the alternative supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123644	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123653	Thank you. It's fun to use the word discrimination in this respect. This is, after all, a problem derived from the fact that women have more rights than men, and that will then be resolved by giving women even more rights. Is it not a reverse way of achieving equality that one party is granted even more rights than the other party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123722	Yeah, I totally agree with that. But I did not propose that this was the necessary solution either. It is easy to imagine a solution whereby women employed under military service are deprived of their health cards on equal terms with men. If it were up to us in the alternative, we would also have to have equality in terms of military service, which we would perhaps rather have been a form of civic duty which was not military. But it shouldn't apply to men and women. So I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123747	I am glad to hear that, because there is a tendency for an equal opportunities debate to go off track sometimes. So I am glad that the alternative rapporteur recognises that it can also be seen in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123759	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123805	There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123808	Thank you. [Sound outage]... to equate inmates and conscripts injured as a result of the treatment in our prisons and detention houses and the military defense and rescue services, respectively, with other persons who have been injured in health care. As the other rapporteurs before me have said, the government is proposing with this bill that the two groups, like others, should be able to raise a claim for compensation in the case of patients. We would like to support this in the Radical Left, assuming that the government has a check on funding, and perhaps the Minister can elaborate on that in his remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123853	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There were no brief comments. Then I would like to know if anyone is here from the SF whether anyone wants to be rapporteur for the SF. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123910	Thank you. It would seem a little fussy here as the raisin in the sausage end to go through what exactly is in this bill. If anyone is listening at home, I think they have gradually understood it. That is why I do not have to go far either, but when a problem is pointed out by the Ministry of Justice, that is to say, that we have Danish legislation which is contrary to UN conventions, it must of course be corrected. It is a very good model that we have at home with the Patient Compensation, and therefore there is every reason why it should be extended to cover prisoners in prisons and detention houses of the Criminal Services and, of course, the conscripts. So we're backing this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415123955	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. And then the trip has come to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124007	Thank you very much for that, and thank you for both the comments and the debate, although it was brief. I am glad that we are now getting the support of the parties of the Danish Parliament to rectify the breach of the Convention, as the Ministry of Justice has pointed out there is for the inmates and the conscripts. I noted that the Socialist rapporteur remarked that it was a little too late. Then I can ask the question why the Socialist Minister for Health did not correct it when it was found that there was this breach of the convention. But at least now we're gonna get this bill right, and that's really, really good. In this way, we ensure that inmates in prisons and detention centres and conscripts in the military defense and rescue services have the same access to patient compensation for all sorts of other citizens who receive the same treatment in the general health care system. The rapporteur for the alternative raised the question as to why it is only the conscripts that are covered, and not the contract staff in the defence, where reference was made in particular to women. After all, the draft law we are discussing here is intended to correct the breach of the convention that we have found there today. The breach of the Convention lies in the fact that there are two groups, i.e. the inmates and the conscripts who are unable to choose the general health care system and that they cannot report any damage to the patient's replacement. And this is discrimination against other citizens who have the opportunity to report damage to the same type of treatment. Then there are the contract staff in the defense who, like the conscripts, do not get their health cards removed. And so, like all other citizens, they have the opportunity to choose for themselves whether they want to be treated in the general health service, where they also have the opportunity to seek compensation. That is why there is no breach of the Convention in relation to that group of persons, and that is why it is not relevant in relation to the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. It is not the same as saying that there is no need to consider and discuss, and therefore it does not mean that it will not be assessed and involved later on in the context of the major inspection that is taking place in the current area of coverage. Then the rapporteur for the Radicals asked whether the bill was financed, and I can confirm that immediately. Of course, the bill is funded. This government doesn't make any unfunded bill for the Folketing. All in all, thank you for a good debate. I shall, of course, make myself available if questions arise during the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124313	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If no one objects to it, then it has been adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124346	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124402	Thank you. Today, we are discussing the draft law amending the Health Act, the Law on access to healthcare complaints and compensation, and the Law on the detention of drug addicts in treatment, focusing on strengthened efforts for pregnant women with an abuse of drugs. A good start to life and equal opportunities for all children are essential to me as a Social Democrat. That is why this proposal is important, not only for the sake of the pregnant woman, but also for the sake of the foetus and hence of the future child. The aim of the bill is to reduce the number of children born with health problems and harm because the mother has an abuse of drugs, including alcohol abuse, during pregnancy. We want to ensure consistency and greater clarity in the rules governing the contract offer, with the possibility of detention for pregnant women with an abuse of drugs. We therefore want to give all children the opportunity of a good start to life, no matter who their mother is. Each year children are born with serious health problems and injuries due to their mother's abuse of drugs during pregnancy. It is therefore vital that we help the mother with her abuse and thus limit the number of children born with health problems. Alcohol poses the greatest risk to the foetus, but all types of drugs lead to the risk of lifelong harm to children. This bill is an expiry of the 2016-2019 Rate Pool Agreement in the domestic and social fields, where all rate pools agreed to harmonise and strengthen the legislation on the action of pregnant women with an abuse. This is on the basis of an inter-ministerial working group which, on 11 September 2015, published its reporting of proposals for possible Danish models for the treatment of pregnant women with an abuse. The bill strengthens the existing preventive action with the following measures: The bill obliges municipalities to offer a contract for treatment with the possibility of detention to pregnant women with an abuse of alcohol that receives a 24-hour treatment offer. Treatment opportunities will be strengthened by extending the duration of the contract. Where today it is up to a maximum of six months, it will henceforth be part of the entire period up to the birth of the child. Today, a maximum of 14 days can be withheld. It will be extended to 21 days, and the total retention period will be extended from 2 to 3 months. In addition, a new right of appeal is introduced to the Patient Safety Agency, which pregnant women with alcohol abuse may use to complain about any lack of offers from the municipality to conclude a contract for treatment with the possibility of detention. In other words, the legislative proposal changes the framework for action on behalf of women with alcohol abuse and brings it into line with women with drug abuse. We create more equal opportunities for a good start to life for all children. The amendments to the bill contribute to legislation in which women, pregnancy and, in particular, the foetus are the starting point. We in the Social Democratic Party support the bill and look forward to further consideration of the proposal. I must also say on behalf of the SF that they support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124725	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Yildiz Akdogan and it is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124732	Thank you. I understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that the most important thing is the children, and I am in complete agreement with the Social Democrat rapporteur on this. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's answer as to why this should be based on voluntaryness, why it should be voluntary for a mother, whether she will make the child she has in her stomach, brain damaged, give it seriously but for the life that follows for the child. Does it really have to be voluntary for the mother if it's something she's going to do? Should not the legal principles which otherwise apply in this society, that you should not inflict other damage, also apply when the child is in the stomach, if this is really the case, as the Social Democrat rapporteur says, that it is the child's welfare that is being given the highest weight?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124817	Thank you for the floor. Now I do not know what methods the Conservatives think are most effective. But one of the things I know about in relation to this particular group is that what is best at getting people with a very strong dependence to go into such a framework is the motivation, that is arguments, that is, that it actually happens through the path of volunteering. You can't get an addict to drop his abuse by forcing or shutting the person in. You can do this by motivating and making the person realize that this is so important to both herself and to the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124850	I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. There may be a woman who drinks a box of golden beer a day. You can take her and put her in a room and tell her that she is not allowed to leave that room as long as she drinks it may well be that you have to keep her there for the rest of her pregnancy for six months and if she doesn't get a single item there, do we not agree that the child being born is significantly better off than if you go for such good will and motivation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124919	If and if. The best thing would be if women didn't drink during their pregnancy. It would be ideal for both the mother and the child. But again, the focus here is where you get the most out of it. Is it trying to convince and persuade the mother on the way of volunteering to sign this contract or just force her to do something that ends up not keeping that part of the deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124944	Then we thank Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415124950	Thank you. After all, L 165 is a political agreement. The initiatives in the rate pool agreement are a follow-up to the reporting by the inter-ministerial working group on pregnant women with a consumption or abuse of drugs and will involve a differentiated strengthened effort, divided into three main tracks. With the 2016-2019 rate-pool agreement in the social and domestic sectors, the rate-pool parties agreed to harmonise and strengthen legislation on the action of pregnant women with an abuse. The aim is, among other things, to: ensuring that, following a change in law, there will be the same obligation for municipalities to offer pregnant women with an abuse of drugs and/or alcohol a contract based on the consent of women for treatment with the possibility of detention. In the Danish People's Party, we want to strengthen our efforts towards pregnant women with abuse and especially for their unborn children. The aim of the bill is to reduce the number of children born with health problems and injuries because during pregnancy the mother has had a consumption or abuse of drugs, including alcohol, thereby ensuring that more children get the right start in life. The draft law also strengthens existing opportunities to offer pregnant women with abuse of drug treatment with the possibility of detention by obliging municipalities to also offer pregnant women with an abuse of alcohol, who are offered 24-hour treatment for abuse, a contract for treatment with the possibility of detention. Treatment possibilities will be strengthened by extending the duration of the contract, the length of the maximum period for which each detention situation may last, and the length of the total retention during the contract period. With the proposed changes, the framework for action against women with alcohol abuse and women with drug abuse will be one-way. It is ensured that all pregnant women with an abuse receive equal rights in relation to receiving an offer from the municipality for 24-hour treatment with the possibility of detention. The Danish People's Party hopes that this legislation strengthens the effort so that women with abuse get the right offer with the right support and help. The proposed amendments to the legislation will be evaluated three years after the entry into force and we have been promised that in the intervening years the parties to the agreement will be kept informed of developments in the application of the treatment contract by the municipalities with the possibility of detention under the Health Act and the detention law respectively. In addition, the Rate Pool Agreement also agreed to launch a number of initiatives to strengthen existing efforts for the broad target group of pregnant women and women of childbearing age with a drug problem, as well as a methodological and competence development project targeted around-the-clock treatment services for pregnant women with an abuse of drugs, including alcohol, as well as relevant implementation support. These initiatives will also be evaluated. It will continue to be voluntary for the pregnant woman to accept, in connection with her being offered 24-hour treatment for abuse, the municipality's offer to enter into a contract for treatment with the possibility of detention. If the pregnant woman does not wish to enter into such an agreement, she will continue to have access to other existing treatment options, including treatment of abuse in the form of 24 hours a day. In the Danish People's Party, we also think it is very important that there is a follow-up after birth, so the Minister is very happy to discuss how to ensure this, according to the Children's Council's Hearing Response. The Danish People's Party looks forward to the committee reading and hopes that the upcoming evaluation will produce positive results. And I must therefore announce that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125350	Thank you. And the rapporteur is fortunate enough to have a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125355	Thank you. And thank you for a fine speech. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party now I am aware that this is an agreement and that there must be a compromise and a settlement, and we are also in favour of this in the case of the Danish People's Party being prepared to investigate the possibility of going further than this one time in the future. In any case, I have heard Mrs Liselott Blixt, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, expressing a favourable opinion on the possibility of using coercion in this situation simply because the child's welfare must always be the most serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125432	This is quite true, as Mrs Mette Abildgaard says, the implementation of a specific agreement, and we are, of course, loyal to it. But yes, once this project has been evaluated, we have to look at which tools to reach out for if someone, that is, if there is a need for improvements and more coercion, could be one of those tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125458	But let me ask whether, in principle, the rapporteur thinks that it is enough to make use of voluntary contracts when there are people who are committing so much damage to children that cause brain damage to them born from birth because of that treatment. In principle, does the rapporteur think that it is right to settle for a voluntary agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125518	I must honestly admit that this is an area in which I do not have the deepest insight. But I can understand, also with Mrs Mette Abildgaard's question to the former rapporteur in mind, that it is more effective in preventing people from taking drugs, that more force is used than voluntary use. But I'd like to wait for the evaluation of this project to see if it's good enough. Otherwise, we will have to take further initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125557	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen for his efforts. The next is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415125604	Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing first with the L 165, the draft law amending the Health Act, the law on redress and compensation in health care and the law on the detention of drug addicts in treatment, or, in other words, strengthened action for pregnant women with an abuse of drugs. The bill is a follow-up to last year's wage-pool agreement in the social field. After all, it is no secret that the parliamentary health, psychiatry and social rapporteurs have been discussing for a long time the possibilities for strengthened action. For it is a deeply unhappy situation when a woman does not know how to stop an abuse or manage to stop an abuse during her pregnancy. The aim of the bill here is to limit the number of children born with health problems or injuries because the mother has had an abuse during pregnancy. In January I was on a study trip to Oslo with the Danish Parliament's Health and Older People's Committee. During the visit to Oslo, we met a former addict and mother. Her story of a life of drugs both before and during pregnancy was gripping, and I think her point that no mother wants to harm her unborn child is an honest testimony that tells a story that all of us who have carried a child can confirm. No mother wants to hurt an unborn child. Yet we see women with both alcohol and drug abuse continuing their abuse during pregnancy, not because they do not want to stop, they just can't, they say. With this bill, we are strengthening the existing opportunities to offer pregnant women with an abuse of drug treatment and a possibility of detention. There has been extensive work ahead of the bill here. An inter-ministerial working group set up by the VK government in 2011 has worked with the area, and this is among other things. in view of the work of the committee, that we are now ready to give pregnant addicts and their unborn children an opportunity for a better start to life. For all children are entitled to a good start in life. Each year approx. 100 children with brain damage because their mother had an abuse during pregnancy. As a society, we now take on a greater responsibility to help both mother and child. With the bill here, we are obliging municipalities to be an active co-player. In future, municipalities must offer a pregnant alcohol abuser and/or drug addict a contract for an offer for the treatment of abuse in the form of 24-hour stays with the possibility of detention. This means that the framework for action on women with abuse of alcohol and women with abuse of drugs is now being standardized, just as the right of appeal for women with alcohol abuse is being strengthened. This makes sense, because whether a mother is an alcoholic or a drug addict, the small unborn child is at very high risk of being born with, for example, a child. withdrawal or fetal alcohol syndrome that cripples the child for the rest of his life. In addition to the commitment of the municipalities, the bill here changes how long an addict can be held. The report from the inter-ministerial working group shows that some municipalities have pointed out that one of the challenges of applying the rules in force is the period during which each woman can be held very briefly. And 14 days is too short to work with women's motivation to stay and avoid smoking into a new abuse, and therefore the period is extended to 21 days. We also extend the duration of the contract from a maximum of 6 months of pregnancy to the rest of pregnancy and, like the duration of the total retention, extends from 2 to 3 months. One can always ask whether we could have chosen to go other ways. There are arguments both for and against, voluntary versus coercion. For us in the Left, trust before, during and after a course of treatment is an essential focal point. Even if the bill here has an element of coercion, having the possibility of detention is an important starting point. A number of consultation responses have been received and several of them have been received, among others. from the Children's Terms, from the Center Leader Association and from the Danish Social Advisor Association, stresses the importance of maintaining the voluntary and dialogue-based approach. With a time limit of 21 days rather than 14 days, the individual detention situation will provide better time to work with women's motivation for treatment and thus contribute to a more secure pregnancy for both mother and child, and this is a strengthening of existing opportunities. It is also important to emphasise that the Rate Pool Agreement also provides for a methodological and competence development project targeted around-the-clock treatment for pregnant women with an abuse, as well as appropriate implementation support. These initiatives, like the draft law here, will be evaluated three years after the entry into force of the law. Last but not least, it is essential that, if we are to achieve the aim of reducing the number of children born with harm caused by the abuse of drugs or alcohol by the mother, it is essential that the practitioners should see more of the existing treatment options and refer to them. The 2015 report also points to this. I hope that the ongoing work on strengthening close health care will contribute positively to this shift. On the Left side, I would like to make it clear that we support the draft law as put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130141	We have one brief comment to make. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130143	Thank you. On 30 November 2014, the Berlingske News Agency wrote an article in which the then Left Health Rapporteur was quoted. The title was: "Left will commit pregnant alcoholics'. The quote reads: "We can go a long way with volunteering, but we just have to acknowledge that there is a small residual group today that we cannot reach with the existing offers." I understand that this is a debate we have been in now, and everyone has to give in. I would just like to ask for confirmation that it is still the policy of the Left that we should be able to force these women who do not take the necessary account of their child.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130223	I think it is very important, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, to realise that there are arguments both for coercion and against coercion. It is a really difficult discussion, it is a really difficult debate where there are many considerations to take into account. It is quite right, as the Conservatives' rapporteur points out, that this is a wage-pool agreement which contains all wage-pool parties. And it's always a give and take situation. This is what we could agree on. We fully support this from the Left, and I am actually looking forward to seeing the evaluation, which I know will be in three years' time. I think it is essential that we should again discuss whether there are other buttons on which we can turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130308	I just have to ask the question again. I understand that this is a compromise. When the Left's health rapporteur spoke here, pluses and minuses had also been made up and had come to the conclusion that coercion should be possible for the sake of the child. So I just have to ask again: does the Left believe that it must be possible to apply coercion to pregnant alcoholics who cause their unborn children, for example massive brain damage?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130338	As I have said before, there are good arguments and good arguments against it. Now I mentioned earlier in my rapporteur's speech that the Health Committee has been in Norway. I do not remember whether the Conservative rapporteur was on that trip. We met there, among other things. people who work with drug treatment in Norway. In Norway, there is the possibility of having pregnant women forced into the hospital, and one of the experiences they have is that it can be seen that the number of pregnant addicts who are admitted voluntarily has increased since, if I remember correctly, the possibility of forced treatment was introduced in 1996. I think it is important for us to evaluate this draft law here, to reflect on the experience gained from abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130424	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130436	Thank you. I shall start by saying that the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal as it stands here. The bill is a consequence of the interdisciplinary report from the Ministry of Health back from September 2015. It has been put into effect through the rate pool agreement. This has led to the present draft law. I would like to start by saying that there are some things that Enhedslisten would like to recognise are positive steps in the bill. It is about the fact that the legislative proposal helps to harmonise legislation. This makes it easier for all players to navigate. The proposal also recognises the seriousness of alcohol damage in foetuses. The proposal improves access to justice for citizens and clarifies the legal situation. The proposal simplifies offers and administration across municipalities. And the political desire to improve efforts in this area is positive, partly through the legislative proposal here and partly through investment pool projects. If we cannot support the proposal in the Enhedslisten anyway, it is primarily because it increases access to coercive detention. It is, of course, by agreement, but without at the same time guaranteeing the qualitative boost in the effort, which we know is the prerequisite for compulsory detention to work. There is a 2014 report from the Social Research Institute that states that the success of forced detention depends on one hundred percent of a qualified treatment and follow-up offer. In addition, the report states, and I quote: '...the treatment of compulsion may result in a negative result if necessary factors, such as high quality of treatment, are not present. ▪ We see nowhere in the draft law which ensures the increase in treatment efforts, which must be a condition for introducing the increased access to forced detention. We also find it problematic that it is only the head of the processing offer who can decide to offer a contract. We would much rather focus more on the multi-disciplinary approach that can be offered through, for example. the regional background teams, where professionals from both psychiatry and support and contact arrangements are involved. In addition, healthcare professionals, midwives, staff from abuse centres and job centres participate. We would therefore much rather focus much more on inter-disciplinary action. We also see it as a major problem that no more funds have been set aside for finishing, because all experience shows that after birth the risk of relapse is very, very high. The same applies to the choice not to involve partners or co-parents in the treatment of abuse. The consultation material also shows that the extensive criticism of the existing municipal treatment services is simply rejected on the grounds that the municipalities have a duty to offer treatment. However, knowing that an important premise for achieving this is that a qualitative boost is being made so that we can increase access to forced detention agreements so that it works, it seems rather uncertain that we are adopting legislation without using the means to secure that boost. That is why it is not an expression of a fundamental opposition to the use of voluntary restraint agreements. However, if access is to be increased, it is an important prerequisite for other means to follow. Forced even as voluntary agreements is a means to be used extremely gently, and that must only happen once all other options have been exhausted. That is why we are rather annoyed that the government has not chosen to listen to any more of the advice given in the hearings. Here are listed a number of important additions to coercion. It is improved treatment services, it is the right to legal aid, it is the decision-making competence of interdisciplinary teams, it is the involvement of partners or co-parents, and it is the thought-out of the very, very important defense. If those proposals had been incorporated and funded, we might have considered supporting the proposal. But we cannot do that as it stands. We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130840	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130851	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to reduce the number of children born with health problems and harm, because during pregnancy the mother has had an abuse of drugs, including alcohol. The proposal strengthens existing opportunities to offer help to pregnant women with abuse. The municipalities are therefore obliged always to offer a contract of treatment with the possibility of detention. This guarantees all pregnant women with an abuse of their rights to 24-hour treatment with the possibility of detention. This increases efforts to give more children a good start in life, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130941	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415130953	Thank you. I don't need to repeat what the purpose of this bill is... so many of the other rapporteurs have done that. But this is also, of course, the fact that we are extending the target group of women who can be detained by force from only drug addicts to those who use alcohol. And we strengthen the treatment possibilities by extending the duration of the contract and the length of the maximum period for which each detention situation may last, as well as the length of the total retention during the contract period. When you look at how serious the consequences can be when a child is born with what is called fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol effects, which is a milder variant, it is indeed gratifying, in the alternative, that in Denmark, too, you will now have the opportunity to give pregnant women this treatment offer, which means that the woman agrees to be restrained by coercion if she falls in relation to her abuse. At the same time, it is at the heart of the alternative that we also respect the free rights of the individual. We must remember that, although we are talking about people with addiction problems, they are self-employed and mature individuals. And there are also several consultation responses expressing concern about the effect of introducing an increased possibility of coercion against pregnant women with an abuse of alcohol or drugs. But here I think it is just important that we keep two things in mind: the first, as I mentioned, is the very, very serious damage caused to children born with fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol effects. The most serious congenital injury is fetal alcohol syndrome, which includes: There is at least a risk of specific facial features, brain damage and growth inhibition and also malformations in one or more organs. Foetal alcohol effects are a milder variant, which among other things. leads to malformations, growth inhibition and brain damage, which can also cause learning problems later in life. These are very, very serious diseases and challenges with which these children are born. The second thing that I think is important is that we must keep the focus on the fact that this offer is an opportunity. It is therefore an opportunity for the pregnant woman to take advantage of, and not coercion. And I actually think that by far the majority of women want the best for their children, which is why I think this treatment offer is a welcome offer to those people who know for themselves that this is what it takes to help the unborn child they have in their stomach. And I think that maybe this is where we differ from the Enhedslisten, whose rapporteur said that we should instead have more treatment options in the field. I really do not disagree with that, but I think that there are some individuals who know themselves so well that they know very well: this is actually the only thing that will help me, and I am at a time in my life when I am able to think clearly and say that I would like to be detained at a treatment institution if necessary. It takes a great deal of courage to make such a decision, and that is why I think we should show a great deal of respect to those women who choose to accept this offer. It is a very strong and courageous choice, and by the fact that, as a legislative assembly, as Parliament, we are implementing this bill, we are giving pregnant women the opportunity to make this courageous choice. That in itself I think can actually be edifying in relation to the motivation to carry out a pregnancy without falling back into the abuse. So basically, this is about us talking about the earlier ethical dilemma, i.e. whether it is the individual's free rights or whether it is the consideration of the unborn child that comes first. And I don't think there's any clear answers to that. But I would again like to express the courage that I think lies in a woman who, at a time in her life when she is free from withdrawal, decides that she wants the best for her child and therefore agrees that she will be held back. It is also crucial that it is not a either-or. If a woman does not want to enter into a contract, it is not the case that she is deprived of the other treatment services that are available. I think we should bear that in mind, because that is the way it should be, of course. So with great respect for the fact that this is not an uncomplicated solution, but rather a solution that involves a number of ethical dilemmas, which I think we should be very honest about and present very clearly and broadly in the Folketing, our position in the Alternative is that this bill basically extends a hand to both mother and child, and it is a hand that I think many will appreciate being offered, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131427	It gave rise to a few brief remarks. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131431	I would like to acknowledge, then, that we agree on that, I think we all agree that this is about reducing the number of children born with alcohol damage. What is the question is just the means we use. And it can be said that what is important to us is, of course, that when we know that a prerequisite for compulsory detention works, and it is a great decision for future parents to have to make and that there is a better treatment offer than what is today, does not the rapporteur worry a little that, when we know it, we will nevertheless increase the possibility of it, because in this way we do not respect the choice of the mother to say that she needs some support in the context of coercion, because we do not make the treatment offer that we know is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131525	First of all, I think we should be careful to do so so that all the decisions we take here in the Folketing will be either-or-decisions, because then I do not think we will get very far. So I can easily agree with the rapporteur that a broader palette of treatment options would be desirable. However, when we vote in favour, it is because we think this is at least a step on the road. It may be that we need to wear something more later, but it is also about this being actually an offer that we believe can help some women, and that is why we say yes to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131556	Well, it's just to stick to the fact that what we know seems best in terms of drug abuse treatment is motivation, it's motivational work to get people to accept this. And it is true that part of the motivational work may also be that an addict says: I need some extra support, you can forcefully hold me back. My point is that if we are going to go all the way out there and we have to take advantage of it, then it is also a prerequisite for us as an authority to say that then we also have a treatment offer that can live up to it. And I do not think we have that today, and that is why I think it is risky to move into the whole area of compulsory detention if we cannot at the same time ensure real and proper treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131638	As I hear the rapporteur, the criticism lies in the fact that the resources that need to be available so that we can then have the proper talk with the pregnant woman and inform properly what this certainly means are not present. I can agree with that, but I would also like to say that if we had to put together both the health and social system in the alternative, it would basically be completely different than it is today. So it's also more about saying that yes, this is a step in the right direction. We would very much like to see a lot of other changes, but they must come in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131709	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131712	Thank you. The alternative rapporteur had a wording that would also have to bear in mind the free rights of the individual, and one might say that if you run it out, it is such classical liberalism, but liberalism does put an end to where your own freedom means that others' freedom is restricted. That's a classic reason why you can't commit violence and murder and everything else. I just want to hear from the alternative rapporteur whether she does not think that the freedom of the child is restricted if the mother is allowed to exercise the ultimate freedom in this matter, namely by drinking these objects that harm the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131754	Yes, I would have expected a question on that comment from Conservatives' rapporteur, but I just think that, in principle, we will also restrict the child's freedom in that way. I would like to put the question back to the rapporteur because I fully agree with what the rapporteur would like to do, but where do we set the limit, i.e. how many beers can the pregnant drink before we put her in a room? Is it only in relation to pregnant addicts? We have a lot of other children who are miserable in Danish society. We have children who are the children of mentally ill parents, we have children who are the children of parents who simply do not have the care mission at all, so in principle this is an endless discussion, and we are just basically not happy with coercion. So that must be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131839	I'm certainly not happy with coercion either. I would very much like to answer the other questions, but let us take it when I put myself on the platform. The rapporteur also used the wording: which is the most important consideration. Well, is it the mother's, or is it the baby's? Does the rapporteur really believe that there can be questions about who should take the most account of the living person who has an active choice or the unborn person who has no influence on the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131903	I think that my dilemma, which was the most important consideration, was whether it was the consideration of freedoms or the consideration of the unborn child. Personally, I have little doubt that consideration for the unborn child is very strong. After all, the question will be how to solve this challenge. My answer will not be that we solve it by forcing the parents. I firmly believe that we will solve the challenge, as I also heard from some of the other rapporteurs, by motivating parents to stop drinking in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131938	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Next is Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415131951	Thank you. All children must be able to choose their future regardless of their background. It is one of my most important driving forces as a politician, but that is not the case today. We are not good enough to break the social legacy. One of the places where we need to be better at helping from the beginning is in the pregnant addicts. We need to do our part to ensure that fewer children start their lives with problems and injuries because the mother has alcohol abuse while she is pregnant. With this bill, we are strengthening the possibilities for pregnant women to receive treatment, even when it requires detention. As the rapporteur before me has also said, municipalities are obliged to offer a contract for treatment with the possibility of detention to pregnant women who are being treated on a daily basis for alcohol abuse. The bill is an expiry of the pool of rates, which almost all parties in this Parliament are behind, and we are radically happy to help strengthen treatment opportunities, but I would also like to seize the opportunity to say that we Radicals believe that we can take this kind of action differently. The problem with the rate pool is, of course, that it is small projects, which are partly very detailed from the political point of view, and are in danger of disappearing once the money expires. I would therefore like to see us working to change the rate pool completely, so that it will be a real investment fund which, instead of all these many small projects, is aiming for few but, on the other hand, profound changes. Anyway, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132142	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132150	Thank you. This is the implementation of a political agreement that we support, and that is why we are also voting in favour of the legislative proposal. Having said that, this is a compromise we have reached, and that is why I need to mention how the Conservative People's Party views this issue. On July 23, 2006, we read in Politiken about Nick and the cruel fate of the young child. Nick was born with withdrawal, and when he first saw daylight, it was with anxiety. He couldn't figure out how to suck or sink himself, he was given probe food to survive all because his mother had had a massive consumption of alcohol during pregnancy. Nick was diagnosed with fetal alcohol syndrome at birth. At that time, in 2006, he was 12 years old, usually gifted, but brain damaged and psychologically very fragile. He doesn't work well with his peers. A few years ago, another horrible fate could be read again, including in Politiken. This time the boy's name was Jimmy. Like Nick, Jimmy showed signs of congenital alcohol damage at birth, and the diagnosis of fetal alcohol syndrome was made immediately after birth. Jimmy had a brain injury, and after only 24 hours Jimmy developed withdrawal, for which he had to undergo medical treatment. He proved to be both mentally and physically fragile. Jimmy's development was significantly slower than that of other peers. Development was hampered by several of the consequences of brain damage. Among other things, he deported. an extreme vulnerability to light, sound and touch. These are just two of the fates, two of the children born with this serious syndrome every year, because their mothers make a choice on their behalf, which has such huge consequences for their lives and their opportunities in life. In this case, the Conservative People's Party agrees with a majority in the Ethics Council. It has not been affected today, but there is a majority in the Ethics Council which recommends the possibility of applying coercion to these pregnant addicts. I mentioned some of the symptoms earlier. Others may be deformed facial traits, brain damage, congenital heart failure, lump feet, malformed genitals, learning and behavioral disorders. These are some of the symptoms that are pointed out if you break up with this congenital syndrome. I am somewhat provoked by this wording that offers a voluntary contract. Try to imagine that instead of giving birth to a child and causing the malformation, brain damage, all the things I've read out here after giving birth. Then it would not be long before the social services moved out, and the child would be forcibly removed and never come home to his parents again. But because it is now happening while the child is inside the mother's belly, a voluntary contract is offered, despite the fact that what the child is exposed to has huge consequences for him in his future life. We in the Conservative People's Party find it very difficult to see why it should be okay to harm your child just because it is inside your stomach and has not yet come into the world. We want you to have secure 24-hour institutions where these women could go, and then they could live there. They should not be locked in a room, but be in an institution where they can be supervised. No, it wouldn't be very attractive to these women. But maybe they'll actually be happy about it when they get out on the other side because they've been rehabed, and you'll make sure there aren't babies born with these massive injuries that affect them for the rest of their lives. I just have to say that I have no doubt about which consideration should be given most in this matter: it must be the child's consideration that we must take into account forever. It is above the mother's free choice to live her life as she pleases. Nor do you have the free choice to beat or harm children after they have been born. I do not doubt that all of you, my good colleagues here in the Danish Parliament, want the least possible children to be born with this symptom. We are in complete agreement on this. I just think that we need a tool in the toolbox in this case, and that is making use of coercion. I do not believe that everything can be based on offers of voluntary detention. However, we are voting in favour of this bill, and we are doing so because it is moving in the right direction. As several others have pointed out, the period of time that can be withheld is extended, and we are pleased about that. That is why we are voting in favour of the draft law, but I must say clearly that we would like the possibility of using coercion to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132659	A few brief comments were made. First, it's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132708	I would therefore like to respond to the rapporteur's kindness by asking a small question the other way. The rapporteur calls for more coercion. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur in general social terms: in what direction does the Conservative People's Party want to take action? Should you start high up on the ladder of escalation, or should you try to start further down if you want to succeed in getting people on the right path in life? Which way do you think Conservatives are the best way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132750	Of course, coercion must be the last option to be used. When I say that I want there to be more tools in the toolbox, it is precisely because we need to start using the options that are already there today. All I need is a tool, which the rapporteur of the Left has also called for, for the small residual group, which you cannot reach by voluntary means. But no, that doesn't mean you start with coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132812	Then the next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132819	Thank you. I would like to start by signing off on the indignation shown by the rapporteur on this issue. I am truly pleased about that. I always think it is nice when something really concerns people, and I can listen to the rapporteur's views on this. I'm glad. What I would like to ask a little is the fact that the rapporteur is constantly talking about coercion when it is the case that we know well in relation to the treatment of abuse and, at the very least, that coercion is not really a very good tool. What seems best is the motivational work and the multi-disciplinary effort in which all problem areas are covered. The people who are in an abuse are often for some good reasons, and these are the reasons why we should try to go in and help them see. What is the risk of coercion is that there will be some people who know very well that they may be affected by coercion and who will ensure that they do not seek contact with the processing system because they will not risk the consequences that may be of it, namely that they will be subjected to coercion. That is why there will be a group of citizens, those who really need the most help we will lose. There I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the answers to the hearings actually indicate that, if coercion is to be used, it should be the last resort, makes an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132938	Thank you to the questioner. There is a time to keep an eye on. Well, it's that indignation I just praised, which is hard to control). There is no discussion with the President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415132945	Thank you. I can confirm that this is something very close to my heart. My parents work as foster parents, and by this I have also come across children whose fate I thought was deeply unfair even from the day they came into the world. As Mrs Jane Heitmann, the rapporteur of the Left, mentioned earlier, we have actually seen in Norway, where the possibility of coercion has been introduced, that there are more who volunteer, which is of course very interesting. For of course it is most obvious and interesting to do this based on voluntaryness, but I would say that it is indisputable that coercion is effective. If we take these women and put them in a secure institution where they don't have access to alcohol, you can guarantee that the child who comes out on the other end doesn't have brain damage based on the alcohol consumption the mother has had. So no matter how you turn it around, it is effective to prevent access to what harms children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133040	On the one hand, there are always risks in using coercion, such as legal certainty, and that is why it must be the last consequence. But the problem is, you need to get in touch with these citizens first. Well, before you can take them and stop them and lock them in and all that, you need to get in touch with them. And if they know it can be the consequence, then there is a large group of citizens with whom you risk never getting in touch and who never dare to seek help from the processing system because they know it can be a consequence. There is therefore a very high risk, because it is a very, very large group that really needs help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133115	I agree that there is a risk and that this is an issue that needs to be taken seriously. I fully agree with that. I think, however, that a number of different tools could be used to access these women anyway. I don't think you should just give up because it's gonna be difficult that way. But I understand that this may mean that some people are avoiding contact with the treatment system, and we will then have to develop a method to get hold of them anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133136	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133139	Thank you. I would actually like to follow up on some of the questions I had from the platform, but first of all I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the basic view of people that is actually behind Conservatives' strong desire for coercion? Because would you not think that if the right conditions for a voluntary offer are there and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur believes that at least some of the conditions are missing then the individual woman will accept it? Because if you consider the possibility of coercion to be necessary as a starting point, then there is, in some way, also a perspective of distrust on the individual's will to want the best for himself and for his child.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133237	But in conservatism, and I have actually discussed this with the Alternative's rapporteur in the past; the rapporteur can think back to our drug debate there is a basic understanding that people are not always rational and rational. It also means that sometimes it may be necessary to make decisions on behalf of people. It should never be the easy way out. I'm not an advocate of coercion, but in this case, you're just gonna have to weigh for whom consideration is highest, and that must be the unborn child. That's why we give it the highest priority in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133312	Then I will just note the same thing that I noted last time: there are at least different points of departure from human vision. Then I would like to return to some of the points I made earlier. I do not really like the question of where the limit is, but what about children of mentally ill parents? What about children of parents who, for other reasons, cannot handle the care assignment? So, is this something that Conservatives think belongs specifically to in the area of abuse and alcohol, or is it something that Conservatives would like to expand or, as Conservatives, extend to other areas in relation to parents who do not take care of their children well enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133354	However, I must inform the rapporteur of the alternative that this system already exists for children born today. If there are parents who are unable to take care of their child, then the child is forcibly removed or adopted. And it will be placed in a foster family or in a 24-hour institution if you consider that parents are unable to carry out the task. I would say that the parents who treat their child like this are not in a position to carry out the task they have, and therefore there should also be a consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133424	The next brief remark is from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133429	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur say time and again: compulsory is effective. There should be no doubt that the child's starting point is the most important thing, and I believe that most rapporteurs have made this very explicit in their speeches. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can somehow refer to some studies, some research that demonstrates that coercion is effective in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133456	Well, I don't understand why there should be so much doubt about this. It must be indisputable that if you take a woman and put her in a room where she doesn't have access to alcohol, she can't have a baby with alcohol syndrome. I simply cannot understand how the hell that could be done. And then I would like to refer again to Norway, where this has just been done. Besides, this is basically. It is a matter of principle whether one should be allowed to do the damage to one's unborn child the same damage for which one would be thrown into prison if one were to inflict it after the child was born. Here you get an offer for a voluntary contract.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133535	If it is a matter of principle, then the principle must also be that you show a little bit of confidence in this mother who may really want to have a treatment and thus do the least harm to her child. At least you have to give the mother that confidence. I just cannot understand it when the rapporteur says that there can be no doubt. What is the rapporteur's basis for this assertion? I would just like the rapporteur to mention just one example of a scientific article or a study that demonstrates that coercion is the most effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133612	The Social Democrats' rapporteur asks whether we should not trust these mothers if we should not show them the slightest degree of confidence. The trust that has been shown to Jimmy's and Nick's mothers, which I told you about here, is the trust that means that these children today are brain-damaged and have difficult challenges at school. That is the confidence that has been shown. And no, I cannot refer to some research article, because I have to say to the rapporteur that I have not spent time sitting around and finding out. This is basically: You should not be allowed to do that damage to an unborn child.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133643	The last brief remark I have made is from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133649	Thank you. I have great respect for Mrs Mette Abildgaard's purpose of coercion, and I fully agree that unborn children must be given priority. That is absolutely certain, and I think we all agree on that. But it is as if the premise or premise of the rapporteur is that coercion will only produce better results. Would the rapporteur not agree that coercion can also produce negative results? The small residual group, which the rapporteur is talking about and which may not be dealt with through voluntary contracts, may also not be treated by coercion. Because it takes you to identify them and find them. On the other hand, it is possible to keep away other women who do not dare to come forward because of this obsessive concept. This could actually result in fewer pregnant addicts being treated in the system than would otherwise have been the case. And I guess you could also risk some of those who are being forcibly treated being affected by some negative psychological consequences. Of course, it is true that if you shut a pregnant addict in a room, the child will not have alcohol problems and consequences. But then there may be some other consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133808	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133811	One of those who knows the most about this area in Denmark is May Olofsson, who was the head of the family ambulance out at Hvidovre Hospital for more than 20 years, as I remember. She is one of them, including the previous questions, which so strongly recommend that the possibility of coercion be present in this area. She's been working with exactly the women that this affects. The rapporteur then says that this could have negative psychological consequences for women who are placed in a secure 24-hour institution. I do not care what psychic effects it can have on women, as long as we ensure that children are not born who are malformed throughout their bodies and have developed difficult, difficult problems that make them unable to live their lives. Surely it must be the child that we must take the most account of. However, I also believe that the mother is being taken into account by having her rehab and may even increase the chance for her to be allowed to keep this child after birth. Because as it is today, if you are severely alcoholic, you are not allowed to keep your child when it is born. Then it'll be forcibly removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415133922	I still fully agree that the child's best interests are the most important here. But the mother who may have some mental problems should be able to be with the child afterwards. Of course, there are laws and regulations that allow it to be forcibly removed. I know. But I guess the purpose is for them to stay together and for the mother to be able to take care of her child. Something else is that, in relation to the children who are affected by these terrible consequences, because the mother has consumed alcohol during pregnancy, the rapporteur did not relate to the residual group mentioned by the rapporteur and which is wanted by coercion. Is there not a risk that they will not be reached anyway and that others who wish to volunteer will be lost, so that the group that is actually being dealt with will be reduced by the introduction of coercion, which the rapporteur would like to see?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134013	I would like to refer once again to the experience of Norway, where it has just been seen that the possibility of coercion means that more people are volunteering for voluntary treatment. Because you know that if you volunteer for voluntary treatment, you can do so under some conditions that you have your own influence on, whereas you lose your last remnant of self-determination if it happens under compulsion. Therefore, the fact that the possibility of coercion actually exists may also be an incentive to go into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134038	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134045	First of all, thank you for a good and important debate. We have also been wide-ranging, but a good and important debate, and I am pleased that so many parties can support the bill. I am pleased that a significant majority in the Folketing will take part in the responsibility to reduce the number of children born with health problems and injuries, because the mother has had a consumption or abuse of drugs, including alcohol, during pregnancy, and that by doing so we ensure that more children get a good start to life. Then I shall not hide the fact that I would have liked to have seen this bill passed in the Folketing a long time ago. Work on this bill starts as early as 2011, when the then VK government set up an inter-ministerial working group, which, in the light of the experience of the other Nordic countries, should look at and assess the possibilities of drawing up a Danish model for treatment without the consent of pregnant addicts. Unfortunately, that work was suspended in connection with the change of government and unfortunately only resumed in spring 2014. So this has been a long time along the way. I myself have been following the area for many years as rapporteur in the Folketing, and this is a very important area that we are now focusing on, because we are talking about one of the places where we see one of the greatest forms of inequality in our society, namely when we talk about children, of which an excessive proportion of them never ever gets a chance in life to live a normal life. That is also why this draft law is an important step in the right direction, namely to reduce the number of children born with serious injuries. The bill is, after all, the implementation of the joint wage-pool agreement concluded by all the parties of the Danish Parliament, except Enhedslisten, in the social and domestic fields, where we agreed to harmonise and strengthen legislation on the use of alcohol and drugs for pregnant women. As I have said, the agreement is preceded by long-term work in uncovering existing efforts for pregnant women with consumption and abuse of drugs, and I would also like to sign for all the good efforts that have put time and effort into the work ahead of it, not least with regard to the whole survey. The draft law strengthens existing opportunities to offer pregnant women with abuse of drug treatment with the possibility of detention by obliging municipalities to also offer pregnant women with alcohol abuse, who are offered 24-hour treatment for abuse, a contract for treatment with the possibility of detention. In addition, the scope for processing is strengthened by extending the duration of the contract, the length of the maximum period for which the individual's detention situation may last, and the length of the total retention during the contract period. With the changes, the framework for action on women with alcohol abuse and women with drug abuse will be one-way. This ensures that all pregnant women with an abuse, whether alcohol or drugs, are given equal rights in relation to being offered 24-hour treatment with the possibility of detention. I noted that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party raised the question of how we can also ensure continued action against the child in relation to the woman after birth. I must point out, for the sake of good order, that precisely that part is in the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs, but I can inform you that the Services Act contains a general obligation to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to obtain free advice in order to prevent social problems and to help the citizen overcome immediate difficulties and, in the longer term, to enable the citizen to resolve problems that have arisen by himself. In general, support under the Services Act must be based on a concrete and individual assessment of the needs of the citizen, and the support must be organised with a holistic perspective on the citizens' problems. It is the individual municipality that decides on support and assistance under the Services Act. After a child is born, a municipal council may decide on interventions to the child and to the family on the basis of a children's study and action plan. For example, support can be decided at home; it could be a 24-hour stay for both parents and the child or the placement of the child outside the child immediately after birth. Then the rapporteur for the Radicals raised the question that, unfortunately, this is a rate pool project which disappears when the money expires, because the rate pool is a limited project period. That is not correct. The legislative proposal we are debating today is, of course, funded, and in addition, there is, of course, no expiry date on the enhanced possibilities of the draft law to offer pregnant women with abuse of drug treatment with the possibility of detention. Once again, I would like to thank you for a good and important debate here today on a really important area, which I am delighted to see strengthened now. I would, of course, make myself available if further questions arise during the committee procedure, but thank you for the preliminary statement by a significant majority in the Danish Parliament to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134701	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134722	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415134730	Thank you, President. The Socialists support this bill. This is a legislative proposal based, of course, on the fact that the European Parliament, back in April 2014, has adopted a directive on tobacco products to ensure that the Member States are closer to each other, both in the legislative field but also in the regulatory field, and that is why we must now ensure that it is incorporated into Danish legislation. Earlier this month, we first dealt with a bill dealing with e-cigarettes and the part of the directive dealing with e-cigarettes, and now we must ensure that the other parts are included in Danish legislation as well. Let me begin by outlining the situation regarding tobacco and the consequences of tobacco smoking here in Denmark. There is the background to the draft law, and I quote: 'The use of tobacco is one of the most serious preventable risk factors when it comes to public health. Today, about 14,000 deaths annually can be referred to as smoking. At the same time, it has been documented that structural measures work, on the one hand, when it comes to getting citizens to stop smoking and, on the other hand, when it comes to preventing the start of smoking in young people. It is the case that we can hardly exaggerate the harmful consequences of smoking. It also goes on to say that: "Ca. 25 percent of Danish smokers have had their smoking debut at age 13. Research shows that the earlier you start smoking, the higher the risk of increased consumption and permanent consumption. It's very serious. And let me also begin by saying: what is the status of smoking in Denmark? 22% of the Danish population smokes, 17%. smokes daily, the figures have stagnated since 2011. Approx. 46 per cent. of the high school students smoke daily or occasionally, almost 60%. of the vocational school pupils and, as I said, 14 000 deaths per year. So the seriousness is incredibly great and therefore it is also right and important that we focus on it in order to ensure that, with the legislative changes we are hoping for here, we will also contribute to increased knowledge and will also increase the attention of smokers on the harmful conditions, will ensure better control of the whole tobacco sector. The bill contains many elements. Let me, however, briefly outline some of the elements which, for me, and for the Socialists, have the greatest significance. There will be stricter reporting requirements for a wide range of information which will be relevant to the national authorities in particular, requiring producers and importers to submit annually information on sales volumes, consumer preferences and other matters; banning, as it says, characteristic flavours, i.e. flavourings in tobacco seeds; requiring notification to relevant national authorities on what forms are new in the tobacco sector and, most importantly, the establishment of a list of priority additives on which tobacco producers are required to carry out extensive investigations; and then there will be requirements and stricter requirements for the warning of tobacco packages, so that both text and pictures and on a cigarette pack the surface, the visual, with at least two thirds, will be covered by texts and remarks in relation to picture warnings. There are also firm texts on which we can tell how serious tobacco smoking is. The consultation answers have been many, and all parties, practically at least, say that this will move in the right direction. It is the Social Democrats' clear view that this area needs a regulatory framework within the European Union to ensure that the consequences are taken into account as soon as possible in an area which I said at the outset is the biggest single factor for disease development and death in Denmark. Let me mention some of the hearings. The fight against cancer says in one sentence that this is a legislative proposal that is moving in the right direction. The Danish Lung Association says that it is a step in the right direction and that it is now that it has to be done, and the Heart Association says that there are fine initiatives to tighten up legislation in a necessary area. First of all, I said that the Socialists support the draft law, and that is with these reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135259	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135304	Thank you. In the rapporteur's list of the general status of smoking in Denmark, the rapporteur failed to mention that there is an increase in the number of young people who smoke either on a daily basis or on festive occasions. Why that increase has come, I don't have to be smart about it. One might wonder if the real pressure in here over the last few years has produced some kind of counter-pressure. However, the rapporteur wishes to support this draft law, because it is necessary to provide further information on the harmful effects of tobacco. Is it the rapporteur's view that the Danish population is generally unaware that tobacco is harmful to those who smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135356	No, I actually believe that the Danes are aware that tobacco smoking is harmful, but they understate how harmful it is. There are not many people who believe that one in four deaths in Denmark has a relation to tobacco smoking I said: one in four deaths • almost 14,000 deaths a year. I don't think so many smokers are aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135426	No, it is quite possible, but from there to say that there should be some people out there who think that smoking is not dangerous, there is still some way to go, I would say. And I don't think making any more facts will make people stop smoking. On the contrary, I think that the pressure that has been put from in here in recent years has proved that we have reached a limit on how far we can go along this road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135502	Yes, I am well aware that this is the position of the Danish People's Party, and I think it is a very, very great responsibility to bear with the Danish People's Party that you will not be involved in dealing with the facts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135514	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135524	Thank you. Then we reached the last item on the agenda, and thus we also reached the end of the Danish People's Party's goodwill towards the government. We have now dealt with this tobacco directive from the European Union up to several times over the last few years, and on the part of the Danish People's Party we have been standing here several times and explaining that we do not want the European Union to decide what it is like and what goods you want to sell in Denmark. First, it was snuff that was banned, and we could not support it, and this time it is menthol that one wants to remove from cigarettes and rolling tobacco, and then when one has asked about the cause, some thought that it lured young people to smoke. I don't know about you guys, but it's been a long time since I've seen an 18-year-old buy ment mentol cigars, and the fact is that it's the older part of the population who wants mentolcigarettes, and why do we have to decide on a taste that has been present in cigarettes for many years? We can understand that limits are placed on what must be added by new substances and flavours, such as: in some of the new click cigarettes, which can be obtained with different tastes of drinks or candy, but to ban menthol and thereby bother the smokers who have smoked it for many years, we do not like it. The proposal here is also to change the packaging in terms of how they should be labelled so as to know that they are harmful to health and so on, but these are things which only make it difficult for producers and which do not have the effect that they want to see, namely that people stop smoking. Because people know that smoking is unhealthy. In the Danish People's Party, we do not want to bother those people who have smoked for many years and who have chosen for themselves that it is their lifestyle and their priorities for their health. At the same time, we want to take action socially and culturally because we believe that there are other things that need to be lifted before more restrictions are imposed. For who is the target of every new proposal? Yes, we can just check on New Zealand, where the Health Committee has just been on a study trip. Here they have one of the most restrictive smoking laws I have yet seen, and everyone agreed that it just had to be tightened further. We could also see that even if they had high tobacco prices they were extremely high and you could not smoke in prisons and other institutions, they had almost as many smokers as we have in Denmark. So, no, we do not want the European Union to interfere here and that it is precisely the European Union that is trying to promote health in this area that is of course primitive. We know, for example, that the European Union will not ban harmful substances in products where ordinary consumers have no earthly chance of knowing that they are putting their health at risk. However, when it comes to tobacco, which all adult people must know is harmful to health, the European Union will now guarantee consumers. In other words, the European Union is hitting down with the usual precision in the cases which can seriously benefit the citizens of the European Union. With these comments, as we have done the last few times, we shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135844	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415135850	Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing first with L 166, draft law on tobacco products, etc. The draft law aims to implement parts of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014. Overall, the bill contains a number of initiatives and stricter requirements in relation to reporting and content, ingredients and dealer registration, marketing and labelling. We all know that: smoking is harmful to health and one of the biggest killers. We have already taken a number of initiatives in Denmark for a number of years to limit the number of smokers, with the aim that fewer people start smoking and that more people are encouraged to quit smoking, and we have taken a number of initiatives to protect children and young people in particular from passive smoking and prevent young people from even starting smoking. For us in the Left, it is essential to emphasise that we have a very special responsibility in relation to children and young people, because they are both vulnerable and easily susceptible. We must make every effort to protect the young. That is why we also support the initiatives that have been taken in the past, among others. with the new legislation on e-cigarettes, which we have just dealt with first in this Chamber. The new legislation here for tobacco products will also ensure, in particular to protect young people, that young people are not misled by expressions such as: light or mild or natural, and therefore a duty is imposed on the person placing tobacco on the market to ensure that the packaging does not contain features which may be perceived as less harmful or may have positive health or life-related effects. As a new feature, there will be smoking cessation information on the packages in the future, and in the Danish case it will be a reference to the Stopline. After all, we know that the vast majority of smokers actually want to stop smoking and therefore it makes sense that we make it easy to see what opportunities there are for helping to stop smoking. Municipalities play a key role in providing smoking cessation courses, and I hope that all municipalities will actively and quickly respond when a citizen approaches. I have noted that both the Heart Association, the Children's Council and the Fight against Cancer support the proposed changes. The cigarette market is characterised by a degree of diversity, and the draft law introduces a ban on characterising flavourings, such as: strawberry flavor. Only tobacco products with characteristic flavours with a sales volume in the EU of 3%. or above, could be placed on the market in Denmark by 2020. The bill here is comprehensive and I could have chosen other cuts in my rapporteur's speech. I could, for example. I have chosen to focus on some of the initiatives in the bill that we in the Left expect will have a particular effect in ensuring that fewer young people start smoking. About 25%. of smokers in Denmark have a smoking onset at the age of 13, and the sooner you start, the greater the risk of harmful effects and of permanent consumption, as well as an early smoking onset has a close relationship with other risk factors such as smoking. alcohol consumption. In conclusion, there is also the point that the bill here also regulates herbal products that have a special appeal for young people. On the left side, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140225	There is one brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140229	Thank you. In 2013, the Left was against the ban on mentolcigarettes, and in 2013 the Left also considered that the EU went too far in the Tobacco Directive. What about the Left today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140245	Well, I have just explained that the Left supports the legislative proposal that has been presented today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140253	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140254	What is the rapporteur's position on a ban on mentolcigarettes, and what is the rapporteur's position on the EU's very far-reaching directives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140309	Well, when you look at mentolcigarettes or tobacco products with a distinctive aroma, as it is now called, I mentioned it before, but I would like to repeat what I said, it is so that only tobacco products with a distinctive aroma that have a sales volume in the EU of 3%. or more, may be placed on the market until 20 May 2020. So when the rapporteur here specifically asks about mentolcigarettes, I can only say that this is part of the directive here, namely the characteristic flavourings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140337	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140343	Thank you. I shall start by saying that the Enhedslisten supports this proposal. Now it has become almost unnecessary to say this after the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has been able to draw attention to it, but I must not fail to point out that this is, of course, the implementation of an EU directive which we have endorsed and which we are therefore required to introduce into Danish legislation. Of course, it would not have prevented us from voting against it if we did not think it was appropriate legislation, but we actually find the legislative proposal here, L 166, quite sensible. These are several sensible measures to make the industry responsible for the harmful products they market and to regulate the whole area. I am thinking in particular of the requirements of the Tobacco Products Directive for reporting information on ingredients and emissions from tobacco products, because this will help to increase the knowledge of the authorities on tobacco products and increase the awareness of consumers of the harmful effects of smoking. This will also help to increase the control of the area by the authorities. And, together with the stricter requirements for health warnings, this helps to make tobacco less appealing, especially to young people. In addition, it will also contribute to the harmonisation of the regulation of requirements for ingredients and emissions from tobacco products and to the reporting of information on them. In order to prevent young people starting to smoke, it is essential that regulation of the tobacco sector affects several areas, such as health warnings, image warnings and bans on characteristic flavourings and colored emissions. The tobacco industry is trying to make smoking attractive in every way possible, including for young people, and it is positive that the use of these opportunities is now being tightened up. There is currently no regulation of herbal smoking products, as they do not contain tobacco or nicotine, and therefore they are not covered by the Tobacco Product Act. It is therefore important to introduce a regulation of herbal smoking products which can contribute to the authorities' knowledge of the content of the products to the extent that they are marketed in Denmark. It is also important to introduce labelling requirements for products which point out to consumers that they are not harmless products. We also find it extremely positive that the Security Board should be given access to unannounced inspections. It is also apparent from the consultations that several key organisations support the proposal. It is about the Children's Council, the Heart Association, the Danish Cancer Society, the Danish Association for the Lunge, the Dentist Association, the Danish Nursing Council, the Danish Regions and the Danish Association for Pharmacies. Both the Danish Cancer Society and Denmark's Lung Association point to the possibility of implementing what is called plain packaging, i.e. the same packaging of tobacco products. It is then rejected in this bill, as it is not part of the directive. In the Enhedslisten, we will be open to looking at the possibility of making legislation in this area, as it will then become a separate legislation that is not part of the Tobacco Products Directive. In conclusion, we welcome the draft law, which, overall, means tightening up the industrial situation, regulating herbal smoking products much needed, improving warnings and health information and increasing focus on flavourings and additives in tobacco products, and so we can say that, overall, we recommend this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140727	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal, which is a large number of rules and a great deal of bureaucracy, which only aims to protect us citizens from ourselves and which places administrative and financial burdens on business. The Liberal Alliance believes that this is neither necessary nor proper. We believe that healthy citizens both have the right and are able to control their own lives and their own actions as long as they do not harm others. This proposal imposes annual additional fees on the industry of 9 million. kr. to the state for administering the additional reporting, plus that you will have the cost of your own extra administration. The Minister of Health says that it should only cover costs, but as we saw with e-cigarettes, it is apparently much more expensive to register in Denmark than in, for example. England, in the case of e-cigarettes, in fact as much as 1 600 per cent. More expensive. So perhaps there is something about the calculation or extent of the report that should be looked at again. In addition, the state receives about 61⁄2 billion annually. kr. in taxes on tobacco. The Liberal Alliance believes that the current requirements that the warning should cover 30%. of the front and 40%. the back already ensures visible and eye-catching information for consumers. There is no doubt that smoking is dangerous. In fact, I can inform Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen states that according to an Epinion measurement at 96 percent. of the Danish population, how dangerous smoking is. That is why we believe that the further demand for 65 per cent. of the package must be covered, is pure bureaucracy, which does not give any extra effect. We are also opposed to baning mentolcigarettes. So LA, the Liberal Alliance, remains opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140946	That made a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415140946-2	This is the implementation of a directive, so I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur knows whether it is optional for Denmark to implement a directive. I would also like to know if the rapporteur knows what the consequences will be if Denmark does not implement a directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141008	The Liberal Alliance takes a position on a legislative proposal, on the basis of whether it creates added value for the Danes, and we do so, whether it is an EU directive or it comes from Denmark. So we're using the same basis. We are not here in the Folketing to stamp EU legislation, but to represent Denmark and the Danes. That is why, of course, we are voting in accordance with the principles on which the Danes have chosen us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141038	I can inform the rapporteur that it is not optional to implement a directive and, if you do not do so, proceedings may be brought against Denmark. So I would like to hear: what initiatives has the Liberal Alliance taken to combat this directive from the European Union, because it is in the European Union that the fight has stood? I can tell you about our Conservative representative. What has the Liberal Alliance done to fight this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141103	The Liberal Alliance has always voted against this directive. We have done so in the Committee on European Affairs, and we have done so all the way through. So, from start to finish, we have signalled and told very clearly that we are against this directive. In fact, we are slightly opposed to Conservatives, who from the outset also thought the directive was too far-reaching, and helped to call on the Commission to minimise the number of delegated acts. But apparently Conservatives have changed that along the way. Conservatives also opposed the ban on mentolcigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141149	The next brief remark is from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141151	Thank you. I understand that Mrs Mette Abildgaard raises the question here. In fact, this gives me just a basic question: does the Liberal Alliance continue to support membership of the European Union, which is, after all, a community with all that it entails, including respect for the fact that you can have a position of your own, but that a majority can decide and move in a different direction, and yet you support it, even if you do not entirely agree? Does the Liberal Alliance still basically support the EU and the community that is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141233	Yes, the Liberal Alliance does so. The Liberal Alliance would very much like to see continued cooperation and membership of the European Union. However, we see that the European Union must deal with what was the European Union's original core task: freedom, free movement and free trade. That is what the European Union must be concerned with, and that is what the Liberal Alliance really wants the European Union to continue with, instead of the European Union interfering and regulating in detail many matters in which the European Union should not interfere at all and in which it should have nothing to do with them at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141315	Actually, I think it's a little awkward to ask, but I think there's a picture coming up. Now we could hear with e-cigarettes that the Liberal Alliance could not support it, including the tobacco proposal here. However, could the rapporteur not mention a directive or two or three in the field of health, which one actually supports and thinks is a very good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141336	The Liberal Alliance supports all the initiatives taken by the European Union to strengthen free movement and free trade. We will do so at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141347	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141400	Thank you. As has been mentioned, the aim of the draft law is to implement parts of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. Specifically, as we have also heard in the past, the bill introduces additional requirements for ingredients and emissions from tobacco products. There will be a requirement for extensive studies to be carried out on selected additives in tobacco products, as set out in a priority list. This concerns, among other things: on tobacco products which have very toxic or addictive properties, or such as: is carcinogenic. In addition, the draft law also contains a ban on the marketing of tobacco products with characteristic flavours, as we have also heard, and stricter requirements for the labelling and packaging of tobacco products, among other things. in relation to the warnings on packaging and packaging. These are, of course, other things in the directive. When I read all these things up, it's because, overall, it's some of the elements that are in the bill, and that's something that we in the alternative can't nod to. We look very seriously at the fact that there are still very, very many Danes who smoke. The Socialist rapporteur mentioned the figure. That's 17%. by the Danes who smoke every day, and it is 6% who smoke every once in a while. This is worrying both for the health of the individual and for the social consequences of smoking in general. I disagree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who argues that it is an individual choice whether to smoke or not. The cost to society is borne by all of us. That is why we must also take responsibility in society for reducing the number of smokers in Denmark. We all know how much carcinogenic smoking is. Yet I was impressed when I read an article in Information about one of the world's leading cancer researchers a few years ago. It's a younger man from the United States. He was asked what the five primary causes of cancer are. He said: smoking, smoking, smoking and smoking. There is no doubt about what is actually the major cause of cancer. This also means that we have the responsibility to take action to combat smoking. We can have many good intentions about the individual's free choice very much in relation to the discussion we had just before in connection with the previous bill here. It is certainly not because we are not in favour of the free choice in the alternative, but if you imagined what it would be like if smoking were something new that suddenly came onto the market, you could ask yourself whether you would allow it or ban it. There's a reason for snuffing, for example. is banned in Denmark and not in Sweden because it has some strong roots in Swedish tradition and culture. I would guess, if smoking dumped from the sky today, that there would be a fairly large majority in the Folketing and also in the Danish population who would think that it was probably not something we should introduce. That is why we also think that the new venture that the Danish Cancer Society and the TrygFonden have joined together about being smoke-free by 2030 in Denmark is an ambitious and courageous project that we support in the Alternative. In fact, we would also like to see taxes raised by 100 per cent. on cigarettes. I was also in New Zealand, and I was actually in New York. Both places cost a pack of cigarettes well over 100 kroner. This is certainly not something that we in the alternative think is a wrong way to go. So with those words it is clear, of course, that the alternative supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141747	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, that is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141756	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we want to make ours the first smoke-free generation in Denmark ever, so that almost 14 000 people do not have to lose their lives to smoke every year. We have to do what works. The aim of the bill here is to implement parts of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco. The bill contains a number of good ideas, such as: a ban on the marketing of tobacco products with taste, and that is why we support the proposal. But there are also things that we think are missing from the bill. I listen when the Heart Association, the Cancer Society, the Lung Association and the Dentist Association are in favour of standardised packaging and when the Cancer Society and the Lung Association want cigarettes not to be visible in supermarkets. I mean, it's a mistake for the government to miss the chance to take it along. We would have liked to have done that. I know that the Minister for Health also agrees with the fight against cancer's objective of achieving the first smoke-free generation, and it could be strong if we in the Danish Parliament made a national compromise on that objective, so I would urge that we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141925	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415141935	Thank you. What we are discussing today is the implementation of an EU directive. I'm 99%. I am sure that our Conservative European Parliamentarian Bendt Bendtsen, when this tobacco directive was dealt with in the European Parliament, ended up voting against this tobacco directive, among other things. because he pointed out that he thought it should be a national regulation and, for example, he thought that the ban on mentolcigarettes was going too far. He used his influence in the European Parliament to influence this directive to the best of his ability, because that was where the fight was. In the end, however, this may be a pity, but the next battleground will then be the Danish Parliament, because this is where we have to implement a directive. When you implement a directive, you have the opportunity to influence it. You get a framework that you have to act within. We have gone constructively into these negotiations with all the parties supporting the bill today to ensure that implementation is as much as possible in the spirit of the Conservative People's Party's policy in this area. We have been able to see that as a result of these negotiations. We have pointed out things where we had views that have been taken into account. This means that the implementation we are making today of this EU directive is as close to directive as we can almost possibly do at all. I know that, and that was also the wish of many other parties, and it was played out by the Minister, so there has been a political desire for it. After all, it is a matter of asserting its influence. We have chosen to be part of a European project. Then we can think that some of the regulation that comes from the European Union is foolish and that it is not something that the European Union should interfere with. I believe that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and I can agree entirely on this in a number of areas, but that does not change the fact that when a directive is adopted, it is not voluntary whether Denmark will implement it. I am therefore also surprised that the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance are voting against it here and thus do away with influence instead of entering into negotiations on this directive, helping to negotiate the implementation of it and thereby asserting their influence. When we were debating the implementation of this directive, we were sitting with a number of parties who wanted much more far-reaching implementation. There one could have used a stronger voice from others who agreed with oneself that one should not make a far-reaching implementation. So the Conservative People's Party supports this bill, which is just implementing an EU directive. This is being brought close to the directive. There are sensible elements in it, which are, of course, among other things. is about a study of selected additives which can be carcinogenic. There are sensible elements in it, but there are also elements that we fought against in the European Parliament. In those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142240	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142253	Thank you for your comments and for the debate, and, of course, special thanks to the parties that have expressed their support for the bill. The draft law introduces additional requirements on the ingredients and emissions from tobacco products that are permitted, as well as stricter requirements on the information to be reported by manufacturers. In addition, additional labelling and packaging requirements for tobacco products are introduced in relation to those we know today. In addition, the bill prohibits the marketing of tobacco products with a characteristic flavour. However, the prohibition of characterising flavouring shall not apply until 20 May 2020 for cigarettes containing menthol. There is one thing I would like to add anyway. This is primarily because I simply cannot recognise the interpretation that the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance is making today. After all, Denmark has never trodden up in the European Union and has said: hello, we would like to see a ban on mentolcigarettes. On the contrary, there was, of course, a group of parties who chose to exercise their influence in the European Committee when a mandate was to be given to the then Minister for Health on what Denmark's position should be in the European Union. There was a group of parties that did not think there should be a ban on mentolcigarettes. We also had a number of other things we left. In this way, we used our influence in the European Union together with a number of other countries. That was among other things. one of the reasons why this transitional provision on mentolcigarettes has also been made up to 2020. And, as the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party noted, the draft law here today is, after all, a directive-by-law implementation of the directive that we cannot choose to implement, but which Denmark is obliged to implement. That is why it is a little strange that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance says that we want to join the European Union, but we do not want to follow the common rules of the game that exist in the European Union, which are democratic rules of the game, which are about a majority being able to implement something, even if there is a minority that thinks otherwise. What is crucial is that you use your influence in those places in the system where you can assert your influence. We have done so by Denmark. There are a number of things we've been affected. Is that what we would have liked to see today? No, it's not, but we've used our influence. Then, in his rapporteur's speech, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also raised this issue of fees. After all, it follows from the Tobacco Products Directive that Member States may charge proportionate fees to manufacturers and importers for the control task. The Danish fee rates will be set on the basis of the expected costs for the different parts of the control task and the fee setting will be set on the annual grant laws. It will be regulated so as to aim for full coverage of the costs of balance-of-payments controls over a four-year period, no more or less. So this is not some money machine, as the Liberal Alliance suggests, but it is not a setup in which we propose that taxpayers should finance it. It is a task that we say must rest in itself, but with the obligations that we have as a result of the directive. The bill also introduces an obligation to notify new tobacco products before they are placed on the market and introduces a registration obligation for retailers of tobacco products who market products across national borders. Finally, the bill contains rules on herbal smoking products. All in all, however, I would like to thank you for a good debate here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am making myself available for any further questions that may arise during the committee procedure. And also thanks to the parties for the joint preparatory work that we have had, up to the draft law today. I think we have had a good discussion along the way on how we could ensure a sensible implementation of this directive across the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142721	There is one brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142724	Thank you. Can the Minister explain why fees in Denmark in connection with an EU directive which is to be implemented in Denmark and which also needs to be implemented in England are so much higher in Denmark than they are in England? When you take the e-cigarettes... they're the ones I used as an example... then it costs in England 2,000 kr. 600 DKK per year and in maintenance. In Denmark the corresponding prices are 36,900 DKK. and DKK 14,700. annual. That's from what I came up with, it was 1,600 percent. More expensive. If it only covers costs, why is it so much more expensive in Denmark than in other countries when it is the same directive that is the starting point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142813	I do not quite recognize the calculation made here by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. In addition, what we are discussing today is not about e-cigarettes. We dealt with that bill a while ago. This is different. Here there are some fees and I say that it is not some kind of money machine as it was suggested. The fees will be regulated and we are aiming at full coverage of the costs of controlling the balance over a four-year period, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142843	I am well aware that this is not about e-cigarettes. Now I used e-cigarettes as an example, because there we have the figures for both Denmark and another country. Here I only have the figures for Denmark, namely the 9 million. kr., where the state already receives 61⁄2 billion. kr. in taxes. I know they say that the 9 million. kr. Only to cover the costs, but if it is only costs, it could be that one should look at the extent to which one is asking for registration, and perhaps also the calculations of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415142917	The fees fixed for the year shall be allocated to manufacturers and importers in proportion to their market shares assessed on the basis of the tobacco tax reported to SKAT. The basis for the calculation will be the total tobacco tax reported, both the unit and the excise duties, the variable part depending on the retail selling price. And since the fee is determined annually on the basis of the cost of the control task, yes, the fee must be considered proportionate. That is also why I would like to repeat: we are charging nothing more or less than what we need, but we are not asking taxpayers to finance this task. And I wonder if the LA rapporteur either proposes that we ask the taxpayers to finance it, or if we propose that we say: this is not something we really need to ensure that this is financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415143012	Thank you to the Minister for Health and the elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160415143029	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 April 2016, at 1 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
