ParlaMint-DK_20160329130011	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130020	This is the first meeting since former Prime Minister Anker Jørgensen died on 20 March 2016. Anker Jørgensen was born in 1922 in Sundby on Amager. Anker Jørgensen became an orphan at a very early age. Hans father died when he was 2 years old and his mother when he was 5 years old. He then grew up with his aunt at Christianshavn. Anker Jørgensen left school at the age of 14 and worked many years as an unskilled worker. But even though Anker Jørgensen had only a short schooling, he spent his whole life studying and further education. Among other things: He studied 3 months at Harvard University in the United States. Anker Jørgensen became early politically active, and his political career seriously took hold of a 1950 when he was elected Vice-President of the Warehouse and Pakhus Workers' Federation, for which he became President in 1956. Later, the Chairmanship of the Transport Group followed in 1962 and the Chairmanship of the Special Workers' Union in 1968. Anker Jørgensen was elected to the Danish Parliament in 1964 and he was a member for 30 years. He was chairman of the Social Democratic Party from 1972 to 1987. In 1972 he replaced Jens Otto Krag as Prime Minister. As Prime Minister from 1975 to 1982, Anker Jørgensen was able to form four governments. On 3 September 1982 he resigned without holding elections and was replaced on 10 September by the Conservative Poul Schlüter in the post. Anker Jørgensen, with his popular and open-minded appearance, had great credibility in the people. He was faithful throughout his life to his upbringing and the ideals of his youth. As Prime Minister, he preferred to stay in his three-bedroom apartment at Borgbjergsvej in South Harbour and was rarely at Marienborg. Anker Jensen was an honorable, sympathetic and above all soilful person, with whom the whole of Denmark was first-named. Honor Anker Jørgensen's memory!
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130450	Hel Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt has announced that she wishes to resign as a member of the Folketing per year. 3 April 2016. The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Carl Holst as a member of the Supervisory Board for the remainder of the current term of office, instead of Jane Heitmann, for the employment of inmates in the Institutions of the Criminal Services. The person concerned is then elected. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen): Motion for a resolution No. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sending of additional Danish military contributions in support of action against ISIL in Iraq and Syria). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 103 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better legal certainty in the area of administrative detention) and motion for a resolution No. B 104 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on minor discrimination in nightlife). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 105 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution stating that Denmark does not participate in the capture of Edward Snowden). Trine Torp (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 106 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of parental pay claims in connection with the placement of children and young people). Pelle Dragsted (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 107 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to withdraw Act 73 of 17 March 2016 on Assigned Resources for the Refugee Facility for Turkey). Nas Khade (KF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF): Request no. F 27 (Will the Minister explain what the government intends to do about the radicalised environments, including radicalised mosques?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130640	Pelle Dragsted has applied for leave from 4 April 2016, according to section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130702	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Copenhagen, Lars Aslan Rasmussen, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 4 April 2016, when Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt resigns his mandate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130726	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 112 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130752	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the third deputy for the Enhedslisten in Copenhagen Storkreds, Sarah Glerup, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 4 April 2016 on the occasion of Pelle Dragsted's leave. It should be noted that the first and second alternates have indicated that they do not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130823	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 113 votes. In favour, 113 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130844	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130901	There is one proposal and a vote is taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 37 by Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Jan Johansen (D), Britt Bager (V), Finn Sørensen (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Emrah Tuncer (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). A vote can be taken. The proposal was adopted unanimously by 111 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) (against 0 abstentions). That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130942	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329130953	There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 39 by Mette Reissmann (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V) and Mai Mercado (KF). A vote can be taken. In favour 55 (S, V and KF), against 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 9 (LA). Proposal for adoption No V 39 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 38 by Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and V 40 by Pernille Skipper (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT), Emrah Tuncer (RV) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131041	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Søren Søndergaard. Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131103	Thank you, President. Not least in the light of the terrorist action in Brussels, we believe that this is a very important decision that needs to be taken here in a moment. The proposal here is, of course, a decision to open the door not to grant Turkey a larger sum of money to keep refugees away from Europe. Perhaps one might say: What is the problem in that? However, it is a difficult discussion to take without looking at what Turkey is for a country and looking at how Turkey contributes to the Islamisation that is taking place, without looking at how Turkey operates in neighbouring areas, where the refugees come from, without looking at how Turkey treats refugees, and without looking at how Turkey treats human rights at all. After all, Turkey is a country in which ordinary human rights are trampled underfoot. Journalists aren't just being imprisoned. Newspapers don't just get closed. No, newspapers get taken over. The government takes over newspapers and sends them to the streets with exactly the opposite content. What is one day an opposition newspaper is the next day a government-wide newspaper. All major opposition parties in Turkey have been subjected to that treatment. Turkey therefore has, among other things, the right to vote in local elections and the right to vote in local elections. also received a large number of judgments from the European Court of Human Rights. These are judgments that have not been complied with. We have also seen that Turkey is a country in which refugees are attacked and beaten, where they are sent back without their asylum case being investigated and which, moreover, has not signed international refugee conventions. So is this something that is Enhedslisten's view? No, it's actually something we agree on on paper at least in this Parliament. A short time ago, we adopted a resolution, as I said in complete agreement, in which we criticised Turkey and found that developments in Turkey in the area of the rule of law and in the area of fundamental rights are of serious concern. And we jointly called for an immediate address to be given to the major shortcomings in this respect. So this isn't a one-party attitude. That is an opinion that we broadly share. That is why it is a little strange if this is exactly the time for us to reward a country that behaves that way by sending hundreds of millions of taxpayers' dollars to that country. After all, at EU level, we are talking about many billion euros. Is this exactly the time when we're gonna do that? There could be an idea in that if in the agreement that has been made with Turkey there was some sort of mouse trap clause that said that if Turkey goes completely wrong with the human rights situation, if you continue to attack refugees, if you continue to imprison editors, etc. etc., and if it just continues, the EU and Denmark can get out of it. We have asked the Minister for Finance about this. The Minister of Finance then has in answer No. 3 The answer: Humane conditionality is not linked to the facility. In other words, the money has been given without any opportunity to invoke human rights. If the refugees who are supposed to be prevented from coming to our beaches get beaten up, there is no possibility of doing so here. We may think that is a relatively strong decision by the Folketing to take. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance something. If there is not this conditionality attached to the mechanism itself, then surely the Minister for Finance must be able to answer what opportunities there are, moreover, for raising human rights issues in relation to this agreement, if we now see the developments that have taken place over the past year. I know that the Minister for Finance, the last time we discussed it, had not had time to prepare that detail. I assume that the Minister has had this especially in view of the events that have taken place since then. I therefore very much hope that the Minister will answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131614	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. Excuse me, but we have actually closed the debate. Nikolaj Villumsen I am sorry that the President did not see my hand). It's always easiest to push in, because then I'll see it up here on the screen when someone wants to talk. But I'm gonna let mercy go for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131704	Thank you. The reason I'm standing here and it's a little sudden is because I actually expected the Minister of Finance to take the floor. I think it is extremely relevant to get an answer to the question that Mr. Søren Søndergaard just before, before we take this very, very fundamental decision. And I have to say that I am very amazed that we are in a situation where no answer has been received before the decision is taken. In other words, what we are talking about is a fundamental approval of sending 286 million. kr. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). That's right, a lot of money... 286 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. After all, we had a vote on 15 March 2016 in which a unanimous Parliament, all the parties in the Folketing, supported the proposal for adoption that had been made, stating that it was with serious concern that Turkey's non-compliance with fundamental principles of the rule of law was looked at. And now we are in a situation where the Minister of Finance is asking us to give a fundamental approval that we can give DKK 286 million without any demand for respect for human rights. And that happens despite the fact that we have a situation where we have a large number of humanitarian organisations that are out to beat the alarm bells. Among other things: Says Save the Children International that the EU agreement will violate human rights. Honestly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think there is a need for answers before we proceed to the vote. I simply do not think it can be right that we should reward an oppressive regime with 286 million Danish tax dollars without demanding respect for fundamental democratic rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131858	Thank you. Then I do not think anyone else has asked for the floor and then we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131907	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. In favour 70 (S, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), abstained 0. The proposal has been adopted and will be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329131952	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132010	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a majority (S, DF, RV and EL), elected by a minority (V, SF, ALT and KF), or on Amendment No 1 by a majority (S, DF, RV and EL), or on Amendment No 1 by a minority (V, SF, ALT and KF). 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 49 (S, EL, ALT and RV) voted against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 4 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 50 (S, EL, ALT and RV) voted against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 4 (SF) ]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (RV and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and RV) voted against 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 4 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Six to nine, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132306	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132341	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? The proposals have been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132357	Does anyone wish to speak? I mean, the whistle thing about getting the floor is not accepted. Henning Hyllested I had pressed the button). There's nothing to see up here, so the system's kind of jammed. But whistles are not so good in the Assembly, should we not agree on that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132451	Thank you for that, President. I'm sorry if the electrical systems don't work here in Parliament... you must have looked at that. I can see that a report has been submitted and I can see that the bourgeois wing of the Folketing has reserved its position on the legislative proposal at third reading. It is, of course, in its right to do so, but it may seem a little strange in that the proposal for an easy path in Ring 3 is, of course, part of a political agreement concluded by the same parties. The Enhedslisten is not part of the agreement; it is created in the large conciliation circle in the transport sector. However, it may seem a little strange that one has suddenly become in doubt about what the position is on a draft law on which one has a political agreement with the other parties in the Folketing, with the exception of the Enhedslisten. I would like to know if there are any of the parties in question who would like to explain this, so that we do not need a very long time at the third reading on Thursday, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132604	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132620	Thank you for that, President. I am a little puzzled about the procedure because this bill was actually withdrawn last time when it was second-readed at least according to my memory. That's why I'm a little puzzled. I have not seen it in committee and therefore I do not think it has had the necessary committee reading. But I don't know if anyone can help me solve that. I think it is a little strange that we are today having a second reading which has not been dealt with by the appropriate committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132655	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132702	Thank you. It is therefore that the Left has asked for this bill to be referred back to committee. There is nothing mysterious about that, although I understand that Enhedslisten is getting a little nervous twitching about it. It is thus that new information has emerged about the economy in light lanes, and so we would like to press the buttons of third treatment before pressing the buttons of the economy in light lanes in relation to high-, class, bus services. That does not change the fact that we in the Left are sticking to our political agreements. In the Left we stand by our political agreements. But we owe it to the economy of this before we press the buttons for third reading, so tomorrow there will be an expert hearing and then the legislative process will continue from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132750	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132756	I understand that we can expect the Left at least to vote in favour of the bill in question at the third reading...[sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132806	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132808	I repeat: the Left stands by the political agreement which, by the way, the Enhedslisten is not part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132814	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132821	I am a little surprised that the rapporteur of the Left says that there are things that have not been clarified. As far as I know, this is a deal that, among other things, is. was made with us, but it was while there was a blue government. Could you have made such an agreement here without these things being illuminated? As I know, the cost of the BRT solution was also fully explained, so it was on a fully informed basis that what was adopted here was adopted. Why is it that you suddenly have to re-treat it, even if you have had the information for several years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132852	Then it is the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132854	Yeah, so it's been years since this deal was signed. New figures have emerged, and we therefore owe it to us to get to the light what the solution we have now agreed politically costs in relation to the alternative, and I am surprised that Mr. Rasmus Prehn comes up with that question. Because when we debated the light track in Aalborg a few weeks ago, it was Mr. Rasmus Prehn, who used the argument that it should be compared to the light rail in Ring 3, when the government decided to take the light rail in Aalborg out of the Finance Act. So I'm a little surprised by the fact that sir... Rasmus Prehn raises that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132927	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132929	There is no doubt that I was a great supporter of the light rail in Aalborg, but that does not change the fact that the information is some information we have had all along. I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left whether he can guarantee to the 11 municipalities and the region that has been involved in this that, of course, you stand by the agreement that has been handed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132945	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132947	I can guarantee that we in the Left, as always, stand by our political agreements, but we will also have the economy properly highlighted before we press the button on the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329132955	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133010	Thank you. As elected in the area, where we with the mayor of Gladsaxe have spent a lot of time on this easy track with countless analyses, among others. of alternatives, I just need to understand what the Left is saying now. One stands by an agreement, but one would like to see it clarified further. Does this mean that the Left is not going to put itself in a situation where you pull the plug on the light track along Ring 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133032	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133034	I would like to repeat that the Left stands by agreements that have been reached. But we also owe it to the citizens that, when we rush out and spend a few billions, we will see what the effect of this is, also compared to alternatives. So we want that light, and we look forward to it tomorrow, and the Left is in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133049	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133051	Then I have to understand this and then the rapporteur must correct me if I have misunderstood that there is now a hearing tomorrow, and then we end up in the situation where the Left is still saying: yes, we stand by the agreement that has been made. And that means that the light track along Ring 3 is being completed with the model currently negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133110	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133112	I can only repeat that the Left is in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133117	Thank you. No one else wants to speak. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133129	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL and ALT), joined by a minority (SF) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of T)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL and ALT), joined by a minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133311	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 March 2016. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Henning Hyllested, but we need to be calm in the Chamber before the rapporteur can come on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133402	The background to the call for this question debate is, of course, to clarify whether the government is willing to put an end to the illegal practices that, in our opinion, are obviously taking place with Uber's introduction to the taxi industry. We believe that an effort is needed now and here, and it has nothing to do with a future taxi legislation, which has, as it were, been used as an attempt to apologise for dragging things out and that nothing really happens. We must of course be of the opinion that the legislation in force at all times, old and new, must be respected, and so right now we have the legislation that we have, which places very great demands on the taxi industry and on those who want to establish themselves as road hauliers or drive as drivers. It's a requirement for permission to drive at all. It is a demand for economics for the road hauliers. It is more stringent requirements for cars and their equipment in order to increase safety when transporting people around. It is a requirement for extended insurance. These are requirements for the training of both road hauliers and drivers; it is not enough just to have a driving licence. And there are many other demands for the industry. The Danish Road Traffic Authority had no doubt that with Uber there was an illegal taxi business, where neither the company nor the drivers comply with the many rules in the area, and in any case Uber reported almost the same second, it can be said that they established themselves, and this happened on 19 November 2014 in a notification to the Copenhagen Police, but only on 17 March 2015 was Uber charged with taxi offences, while Uber drivers continued to drive people from A to B with no permission and without complying with the requirements of professional passenger transport. Only towards the end of the year last year, the turn of 2015/2016, the police in Copenhagen began to charge Uber drivers with pirate driving, and the first cases come before the courts here at the end of April. It must be said that it has taken a very long time for the authorities to get into gear, and one cannot be free from the suspicion that it is quite conscious, bearing in mind that Uber has been embraced by liberalist politicians in the government and among the support parties, who, after all, hail deregulation and regard trade unions and agreements as something created by a certain master. Of course, this slowness has caused great frustration among drivers and hauliers in the taxi companies. They have run authorities and politicians on the doors and used all available legal means to shout us o. They would very much like to see action. Their sense of justice is obviously violated when they see their livelihoods taken out of their mouths without any action being taken. It happens every weekend, every day virtually, and that is something that perhaps the Minister of Justice in particular should take quite seriously. Even the European Union has been used as an excuse for doing nothing. This is happening, among other things. in a reply to me from the Minister for Justice, referring to the fact that a Spanish court has requested an assessment by the European Court of Justice of the legality of Uber's activities. But that is not all that the Court of Justice has the right to interfere in, and I would remind the Minister that Danish legislation and the related rules are a purely national matter, and if you run your business in violation of the law, it is illegal. I hope that the ministers will live up to this if the European Court of Justice once again fucks up and interferes with something that it should not interfere with, and that the government then does not use the European Union as a bad excuse for not taking action against the illegal practices that are taking place right under our noses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133726	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then it is first the Minister of Transport and Building for an answer and then the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329133735	Thank you. I have been asked to tell you what can be said about the taxi service Uber, and I am sure you can say more than I do here, but it is certainly an orientation that comes here and now. Uber was introduced in Copenhagen on 19 November 2014. On the same day, the Danish Transport and Construction Agency asked the Copenhagen Police to investigate whether Uber was violating the taxi law. And this was because, in the opinion of the Danish Transport and Construction Authority, there was so-called commercial passenger transport which requires a permit, in this case a taxi permit. In the case of commercial passenger transport, there is no link between the passenger and the driver. As the Minister of Justice will discuss, on 17 March 2015 the police charged Uber with violation of the taxi law. What has happened in this case since the charges, the Minister of Justice will explain. Copenhagen Airport has also reported Uber to the police to use airport parking spaces to take passengers. In the following I will outline Uber as a company and how they operate. Uber states that they are an IT company which only provides an app free of charge to those who wish to participate in Uber's driving event. Uber informs us that this is a co-driving operation. Uber also reports that they do not own cars or employ drivers. The service operates so that users can download Uber's app on their smartphone free of charge and potential customers can contact people running for Uber in this way. I have also been informed that it is Uber who sets and regulates the price of driving, for example. also comes with various offers that the cars must follow if they drive at certain times or whatever may be involved. The payment is made electronically in such a way that the money is transferred directly from the customer's account to Uber, which then forwards part of the payment to the driver. There are therefore no payment transactions between the user and the driver. Uber's withholding part of the amount. The amount which will then be paid to the driver must be borne by the driver in respect of petrol, maintenance, etc. too. The driver must also arrange for the payment of tax. I have noted that the TV newspaper on 6 December 2015 featured a feature where Uber's director among others. reported that over the last month 1,000 drivers had served approx. 35,000 customers. I and my officials have also been approached on a regular basis by a group of hauliers and drivers in the metropolitan area who have set out to register how many wagons are driving for Uber. They have come with figures of approximately the same size. It was also stated here that the payment transactions are carried out by debiting the payment on users' debit cards and entering into an account with Uber. The official scheme should be for drivers to be paid 80%. of the customer's payment, but there are drivers who drive or have run for Uber, who state that the tariff varies from 60 to 80%. depending on demand. The driver himself must pay the tax on the income. Today Uber operates in about 70 big cities scattered around the world and starts in new cities at a great pace. The company has met with very different reactions in the countries. The authorities of Norway and Sweden believe that driving on the basis of Uber's concept requires authorisation. The authorities have therefore in several cases imposed fines and removed car license plates. Uber has also been met with bans in e.g. Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329134150	Thank you, Minister. Then it's the Minister of Justice for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329134157	My share in this case, as the Minister for Transport and Building briefly pointed out, is the criminal prosecution of Uber drivers and Uber. As I said earlier, I am aware that the criminal proceedings against Uber have been suspended. However, the prosecution is in full swing and, as you know, the first cases against Uber drivers will be brought to court on 26 April of this year. I will briefly explain the prosecution's handling of the case against the company Uber. As the Minister for Transport and Building has just explained, the Danish Police Department reported on 19 November 2014 Uber for violation of taxi law. On 29 January 2015, the Copenhagen Police Department contacted Uber and reported that a criminal investigation had been initiated against the company. The Copenhagen Police Department carried out investigations into the case, and there were, among other things, investigations into the case. Interrogations were carried out by a number of persons who had signed up as Uber drivers. On 17 March 2015, charges were brought against Uber for complicity in violation of the Taxi Act. The charge is therefore that Uber will help people, i.e. Uber drivers, to carry out commercial passenger transport services through Uber's electronic platform without having the necessary authorisation under taxi law. In June 2015, Uber's lawyer announced that Uber would make himself available for an interrogation in August 2015, and the Copenhagen Police sent a number of questions to Uber to form the basis for the hearing. It was then agreed that Uber should reply to the questions in writing. On 28 September 2015, Uber explained the company's business concept to Copenhagen Police. In this regard, it was stated that Uber alone provides a technology platform and that Uber does not believe that Uber is covered by Danish taxi legislation. In this regard, Uber indicated that a case was pending before the European Court of Justice around Uber. The Copenhagen Police were thus informed during the proceedings that a Spanish judge has requested a preliminary ruling from the European Court of Justice in a Uber case. It should also be noted that a Belgian case concerning Uber is also pending before the European Court of Justice. I informed you in the autumn of 2015 in the reply of 8 October 2015 to Question No. 70 of the Committee on Transport and Building to the Danish Parliament that the prosecution in this respect considered whether an indictment could be made against the company in this country or whether there was a need to await clarification of the EU legal issues raised in relation to Uber's business concept. The question has been discussed in detail at a meeting between the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice at the end of February. The attorney general is now assessing, among other things. on the basis of the meeting in question, that the above-mentioned EU legal questions do not prevent the prosecution of Uber for complicity in the infringements of taxi law by specific drivers. The Copenhagen Police Department has reported that until 15 March a total of 33 persons have been charged with infringements of taxi legislation in connection with Uberdrift. The Copenhagen Police Department has also stated that the police department continues to raise charges for infringements of the taxi law when it is found that these are Uberdrifts. As I have said, the prosecution has now indicted six of the cases, which are scheduled for trial in court at the end of April. The reason why only six of the cases have been indicted is, as I understand it, that the prosecution has brought these cases to trial. The prosecution will therefore await the outcome of these proceedings before taking a decision on the other charges. Like many others, I look forward to matters being settled. The cases can then be appealed to the High Court, so it is far from certain that we will have a final clarification at the end of April. I understand from the prosecution that it will also await the outcome of the six cases before proceeding with the case against Uber for complicity in the violation of the taxi law by specific drivers. It is the professional judgement of the Public Prosecutor that it is essential that drivers who are now indicted may be required to testify in connection with the case against Uber, and this can only be done once the proceedings against drivers have been completed. As I have said, I am quite clear that clarification of whether or not Uber drivers' passenger services are actually lawful has been withdrawn, but at the same time I also accept that the prosecution must have considered the matter thoroughly and that it has dealt with the issues raised by the case and, as I have said, I am pleased that the first cases against Uber drivers now have to be brought to justice so that we can clarify the legal situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329134652	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329134710	Thank you for the statements by the respective ministers. In particular, I found the Minister for Justice's statement interesting. It has to be said that something seems to be happening now, but there is also an admission that the matter has been pulled out smoothly. In our view, Uber is, in fact, the worst disappointment of social dumping. These are the salaries of drivers to well below the level of the collective agreement. There are no health and safety rules in terms of working time requirements. On the contrary, it is a question of people driving in their spare time after a full day's work, or it is people on transfer income who supplement the income with a little black money from pirate driving. Requirements for cars for high safety standards and equipment are not met, including the additional requirements for taxis insurance. The requirement for authorisation to operate professional passenger transport services and the requirement of good economics, unblemished criminal record, training and driver cards has been infringed. Nothing is under control. Consumer safety, which is intended to ensure a professional and safe product and protect the consumer, is not affected. We are convinced that this is a black economy in which neither Uber, as a company nor drivers, pay taxes, because there is no reporting obligation on Uber with regard to the income of drivers, and so a model of companies designed for tax purposes is also used with branches in tax havens around the world. We are quite clear that there are forces in this country, in the government and in some of the support parties who want deregulation in the best superliberal style a la CEPOS: Away with the rules to protect customers from exorbitant prices and provide a certain level of safety; away with health and safety rules and tough requirements to transport other people around; in with free wage formation without restrictive and laborious agreements and with black economy. To expose a whole industry of hard-working drivers and hauliers to unfair and unfair competition in the sacred name of liberalism is quite an achievement. I can hear that ordinary taxi drivers, with whom I sometimes drive, say that they can feel that earnings have fallen between DKr 2 000 and DKr 4 000. on a weekend, and that is especially where there are people to ride and where you have to have the bulk of your earnings, but where the Uberpirates are also on the street. In fact, there are some people who are trying to make a living here. And it has to be worthwhile to work not true but not knowing that you are driving a little extra taxi in your spare time when you have come home from your normal job. Professional passenger transport, which involves a high level of responsibility for the safe arrival of passengers, should not be a leisure job for school teachers or a supplement to cash benefits. Uber has launched itself as part of the growing share economy, a so-called co-driving project. In our opinion, nothing is more wrong. Uber is neither more nor less co-driving than regular taxi services. It is quite clearly defined in the tax order what can be described as "co-driving', namely that no remuneration is received for driving, but that only the costs of direct driving, i.e. petrol and oil, can be taken into account. Conversely, it is also clearly defined what commercial passenger transport is, in other words, what taxi drivers provide. There must be no closer link between the driver and the passenger and a remuneration is received. That is why, of course, the same rules must also apply to those who want to carry people from A to B, and that is just what the established taxi industry demands, namely equal conditions. The taxi industry is a well-regulated industry with very high demands on hauliers and drivers and their cars. It provides a safe and professional product. The Enhedslisten is in favour of this and is very sceptical about liberalisations and deregulations, because it always ends up being a competition for employees' pay and working conditions in this case, but also for drivers' pay and working conditions. Every place where taxi driving has been liberalised has led to more cars on the street, less profits for the individual taxi and also a lack of transparency in prices. I have tried it myself in Sweden since they had just completed the full liberalisation over there, and that was only because heartfelt dockworkers in Gothenburg helped us not to be cheated, so the water drifted, to put it plainly. That is why a great many places, and also in Sweden, have partly rolled back liberalisation. Let us get things done in an industry that has had tough times since the beginning of the crisis in 2008 and which is already struggling with a half-baked image. Let us combat social dumping, working poor, cheating and black economy where it occurs, and here it is in the taxi industry. Don't let Uber ruin a good idea, as part-economics and co-driving is, of course, by adorning himself with borrowed feathers. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, I have to submit the following: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danish Traffic Authority (now the Danish Transport and Construction Authority) has already notified Uber on 19 November 2014 of the infringement of taxi driving law to Copenhagen Police. The Danish Parliament also notes that on 17 March 2015 the Copenhagen Police have filed charges against Uber for violation of the taxi driving law, and several accused Uber drivers will be brought to trial in April 2016. Against this background, the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to set up a Task Force Uber with the participation of tax authorities, the Danish Transport and Construction Authority and the police with the aim of carrying out a special effort to ensure that conditions around Uber are brought into line with taxi law. This means, among other things, that Uber drivers are registered as taxi drivers/truckmen with authorisation, vanity and economics requirements, car design and equipment, training and driver cards, etc. as required by the Taxi Driving Act. Part of the special effort is targeted at pirate driving, which is carried out by inter alia: The Uber drivers. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135256	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135304	First of all, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to sign for the Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested's initiative to take this debate. It is a very important and important debate and therefore it is positive that we have the opportunity to discuss it in the Folketing today. After all, I have been in close contact with Enhedslisten in connection with the drafting of the adoption text and other things, and I sense that there is a very great common interest in combating social dumping and also ensuring that there will be a task force to ensure a solution to the problems that have arisen. That is why, of course, I am a little puzzled that the Enhedslisten went to Ritzau late last night and thought that the time had come to attack by accusing the Social Democracy of being passive, because in this way I see that we have an alliance to secure the fight against social dumping and that we also have a common interest in ensuring that conditions in this area are arranged through a task force. So I would like to hear what is happening to the Enhedslisten, since instead of fighting against the bourgeois people, we think that we should go to the brink of social democracy, even though we have such great common interests as we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135414	Here you go, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135416	If anyone is puzzled in this context, it's actually us. And, of course, we are puzzled because there is actually a majority in this House who wants to combat social dumping. The majority consists of SF, Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti and Social Democracy. That is why we are surprised that the proposal we have had on the table for a long time has not received the support of the Social Democrats. That is a pity, we think, because the majority that I referred to, as there is in the fight against social dumping, is not manifested because the Socialists have a slightly differentiated • let us call it that relationship with Uber. We consider Uber to be merely social dumping, perhaps even worse if we are finally to talk about it than Ryanair. And there wasn't much wavering in the Socialists. That is why I think it is a pity that the Socialists do not support our very, very concrete and direct action against the illegal taxi service that Uber constitutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135522	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135525	That is of course very interesting to hear, for precisely the things that Mr Enhedslisten's Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions as the most important thing, namely the fight against social dumping and the fact that there will be a task force to ensure that there are proper conditions, we have included in our adoption text. Is it not true that these things are apparent from our adoption text? It's more so people don't think it's because we put it in and we don't have it with us. From the text we have written and presented to us by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, these things are not clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135555	Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135557	Indeed, following pressure from the Enhedslisten, it is true that the proposal for adoption from the Social Democratic Party now includes both task force and a reference to the fight against social dumping. But that is why we also wonder why we should not only support the excellent proposal from the three parties which would then manifest the majority in the fight against social dumping. On the other hand, a lot of poetry has been built up by the Social Democratic Party that we must be open to the new economies, that we have to wait for new taxi legislation, etc. etc. We can't use that for anything. Drivers and hauliers out there are frustrated and want something to happen now, and that is what we are trying to address with our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135633	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329135649	It's nice to come on right after Enhedslisten's mr. Henning Hyllested, also to clarify some things in this debate. On the socialist side, as I said, we are very pleased with the initiative taken by Enhedslisten to discuss the taxi service Uber, because there is no doubt that there are a whole lot of uncertainties out there, and there is a whole lot of running ordinary taxi that feels that there is an unfair competition going on and waiting for these judgments to fall so that there can be clarity about the field. So we are happy to have the debate. We are also pleased with the statements that have been made by the two ministers called for. It has been very good to have those clarifications. When the Social Democratic Party had the power of government and we had Mr. Magnus Heunicke as Minister of Transport, started Uber up in Copenhagen. It was also there that the initiative was taken by the Road Traffic Authority to report Uber to the police to make this clear whether it is on one side of the law or it is on the other side of the law. So we have been active from day one from the Socialist side in this area. For us, there are a whole lot of uncertainties in relation to the way Uber is currently running. There's a whole lot to be clarified. We find it deeply problematic that tax is apparently not paid by the runs there is. We find it deeply problematic that there is not the security that exists when you are covered by the taxi legislation. It is not drivers with a driving licence, there are not the same assurances, there are not the same environmental requirements for the cars that drive and others. So we have a great deal of scepticism about the whole concept of Uber. We have also found that in other European countries, and even in countries outside Europe, there has been a disapproval of Uber. There has just been a newsletter from the trade union 3F, with an overview of which we can see that there are as many as 71 countries that see Uber as being on the edge of their legislation, and there are indeed 41 countries that have introduced a direct driving ban • even South Korea has intervened against Uber. So it is also important that we in Denmark have clarity in this area. So there is a very great need to clarify this area, and so we would also like to help use this debate to secure clear lines in this area. We are in favour of a task force being set up to ensure that those driving taxi services are also those driving for Uber, because even if they say it is not a taxi, we see it as such. Of course, we must comply with the taxi legislation. I want this Ubertaskforce to make sure we get things straight. In our text of adoption, we are also calling for a very clear and clear rejection of social dumping. If we are not then co-sponsors of the proposal for adoption which, among other things, is to be welcomed. The Enhedslisten has put it, it is because we think that we are going too far in the wording and that we are approaching what we are going to think is to act as a judicial power. We therefore respect the division of power by the Social Democrats, and here we must remember that we are the legislative power which, by a majority, can impose something on the government, which is the executive, but when it comes to being a judicial power, we have left it to the courts. That is why we are not in a quite as scratch-brushed formulation as the Enhedslisten and others are in it. We formulate our own proposal, but we still think that the political aim is the same. That is why we also hope, in the end, that at least the Enhedslisten and the SF will vote in favour of our proposal if it is the case that their own fall. We have also chosen, as we know that the new Left Government is barring with a new taxi legislation, to say that it makes sense, when we have this debate, to put some words on what such legislation could contain. There, therefore, we have stressed the need for better use of resources, the involvement of new technologies and the fight against tribulation, as well as environmental considerations and so on. So it's also important for us to get some lines there. We have produced a text for adoption which initially has the backing of the Alternative. This means that it is a adoption text submitted by the Social Democratic Party and the Alternative, and I will read it now: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that on 19 November 2014 the Danish Road Traffic Authority reported to Uber for violation of the Taxi Act that on 17 March 2015 the Copenhagen Police charged Uber for violation of the Taxi Act and that several accused Uber drivers will be brought to justice in the spring of 2016. Parliament rejects all social dumping in the taxi industry as well. Parliament therefore awaits the necessary clarification from a court decision and expects the government to ensure effective enforcement of the Danish taxi law and payment of tax, among other things. by setting up a task force. The Danish Parliament is generally very much in favour of new teconologies which ensure greater user-friendliness, environmental improvements, etc. Parliament wants legal grey areas arising from new technology to be identified and handled. New legislation may have to be implemented so that the same conditions apply to new players as to established ones. When changing the taxi law, the Folketing wants better service to consumers, wiser use of resources, the inclusion of new technology and the fight against congestion. • V 42).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140259	There are a large number of brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur. First, it's sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140310	Thank you. I shall dwell a little on the proposal for adoption. I mean, it's an empty thunder when Mr. Thompson... Rasmus Prehn is here talking about social dumping. Why don't you do something about it? After all, there is a majority in this Chamber for really doing something effective. But Mr. Rasmus Prehn talks about new rules applying to new players and to existing players. What is it that, in the present taxi law, does not apply to new players and to existing players? I would like to know that, because it is basically just following the legislation, among other things. Paragraph 1 of the Taxi Act. Perhaps as a small side question I could ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn: Where exactly is Uber complying with anything in taxi law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140354	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140357	I'm really happy with Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen's question. There is no doubt that we believe that the taxi legislation in force should be complied with, and that is also why, together with the alternative, we have produced a text in which we propose the creation of a task force to ensure that this is dealt with. Now we also know that we are in a reality where there is a government, a Left Government, moreover, supported by the Danish People's Party, who has said that there must be a new taxi legislation. And we think it would be strange to formulate a policy in this area without taking into account what one thought such new legislation as that which this government, supported by the Danish People's Party, will present, should contain. That is why we have simply put forward some wordings about it. We could imagine that some of the new technological possibilities that lie in apps and other things could be used, and we could imagine that other elements could be included in a new taxi legislation. For example: It was, of course, part of the original bill from the previous government on a new taxi law that you could create public limited companies, so that you could get a more • what is the company-like profile of these companies and thus be able to get a better service to consumers. So there are a lot of opportunities, and we would like to engage constructively in a debate about them rather than just going out and sitting with crossed arms. We'd like to have an impact on this and make sure that any new taxi law is made the best possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140522	Sir. Kim Christiansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140525	Well, you go on a little bit in the same groove with some empty talk. I and the Danish People's Party would also like to take part in looking at a new taxi law, but it has nothing to do with this question. I am pleased to hear from the Social Democrats that Uber is not complying with the legislation. But then I have to ask: why would we wait for judicial review before we really want to tackle this problem of social dumping? And with regard to new legislation: what will the new legislation do? Is that supposed to make Uber legal? Is that it, sir? Rasmus Prehn will? I just think that we should deal with existing legislation and I welcome the commitment that what Uber is doing is illegal. So why do we not agree to make a majority in this Chamber? I'm wondering what it is that suddenly brought Mr. Rasmus Prehn a different attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140618	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140621	I am sorry that the Danish People's Party has taken the view that we will just leave time and wait and see. Well, we haven't written anything about that. What we have written is that there must be a task force which, from day one, must ensure that the legislation in force is complied with. If sir... Kim Christiansen is sorry for the talk, I just want to say that we have two important things in our proposal for adoption, and that is the fight against social dumping, and it is a task force. So if the Danish People's Party agrees, you should take and vote for our proposal for adoption. There are a lot of other things, but sir... Kim Christiansen is tired of many words, so let's stick to it. Vote with us and you'll get what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140703	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140710	Thank you, Madam President. I have really looked forward to this debate because if you follow the debate that has been going on in Denmark and, for example, in the Danish electronic press, you can see that there have been a number of different reports from Mr. Rasmus Prehn's own party and even the chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Henrik Sass Larsen. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... Some quotes in It's just great. Now, sir. Rasmus Prehn saw here today, and of course I can see that it may be a little difficult for Mr. Rasmus Prehn to find a grimass that can fit. But it is really strange that today we cannot really find out where we actually have the Socialists when it comes to something as legitimate as combating social dumping. What is actually happening today is that we are experiencing a complete knee fall from Mr. Rasmus Prehn's party side, where you make it a snitch talk about who has the funniest proposal for adoption. The Socialists have the chance here to support a proposal for adoption tabled by the Enhedslisten for example. To take a hold on this. That's what Mr. Rasmus Prehn's party didn't do that. Maybe I think so, sir. Rasmus Prehn must try to give a very good explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140816	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140818	If you look at what I, as the Social Democrats' Transport Rapporteur, have said on this issue, you can see that there is a straight line all the way through. The same applies to our taxi rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann. It is true that if one digs sufficiently long and historically, one can find quotes taken out of a context where it will sound like something else. I think all parties can be subjected to that. I am sure I could also find quotes, which are several years old, from the Danish People's Party, where you say something that works all the way across. And, of course, we can use today's debate to tease each other about that. I just think the debate is too important for that. I think this is about ensuring that there are fixed terms in the taxi industry, therefore a task force. And I think the debate is about avoiding social dumping. That is why we need a proposal for adoption to combat social dumping. And yes, we must also accept new technologies and new opportunities. That's why we brought that too. I very much hope that the Danish People's Party will support our proposal for adoption, which has just the fight against social dumping and that with a task force, but also some forward-looking, visionary proposals. So please vote with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140934	Thank you. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329140939	Thank you. But I really would like the rapporteur to confirm once again that it is true, as the rapporteur claims in this Chamber, that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen has been misquoted when he says that Uber is great. In any case, that is what Mr. Rasmus Prehn's explanation of the question I asked, which was quite legitimate, is: what is the policy of the Social Democrats, and why is it that the chairman of the Socialist Group seems to be clearly opposed to his own party's position in combating social dumping? For what is quite obvious to anyone other than the Socialists is, after all, that you take the wrong approach to the fight against social dumping when you go out and praise Uber. For it is therefore not ordinary co-operation, as it is outlined. What is happening in Denmark is really pirate driving, and it undermines the platform on which our taxi industry operates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141031	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141034	I didn't say anything about any misquots. I have said that it is a very old quote and that it has been taken out of context. The way I experience it is that competition and new technology and different ways of doing things are welcome. I think that is quite right. When new technology arises, we should then try to see if we can involve it in the way we organise our driving so that it gets better. This is not, of course, the same as opening up social dumping and opening up tax fraud and opening up the door to non-compliance with legislation. Of course not. I do not think anyone has said that on the part of the Socialist Group. So I can vouch for what everyone in the Social Democratic Party has said in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141112	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141115	Thank you. I would like to dwell on it a little, as my dear colleague Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby asked about Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, Chairman of the Socialist Group. It is clear to everyone that, of course, a group chairman also draws a party, and the group chairman has previously been a minister and, as a minister, he said that Uber was great. So what I really would like to hear from Mr. Rasmus Prehn, is this: Rasmus Prehn clearly distanced himself from his group chairman when he says about Uber that it is great?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141153	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141156	Now I usually experience Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as an unusually sharp listener, but I think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has been concerned about his question here when I gave my answer to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. For then I said that what I heard was that it was said that it could be great with some competition and some innovation, and not that Uber was great. And I think that's just something completely different. That's why I think it's silly to keep stomping around in it. And I have no need to distance myself from something that I think makes very good sense: that you should have some competition and that you should have some new thinking. This is not at all the same as saying that Uber, as it works now, is great.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141245	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141247	There are a number of union presidents who have almost called for Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen fired, so I am not the only one who has heard that the Socialist Group chairman thinks Uber is great. So, sir. As rapporteur, Rasmus Prehn will have to say once and for all: sir. Henrik Sass Larsen's view of Uber is not that of the Social Democrats, and I completely reject Uber, it is not that of the Social Democrats. If sir... Rasmus Prehn does not do it, he says yes to Uber, and he also says yes to social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141325	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141327	Fortunately, I am the one who defines what I say and decides what I say. And we have a clear social democratic line that I have received support for at the group meeting today. It is about rejecting social dumping, that we want to set up a task force to ensure that things are put in place but also open to new technology. I have no need whatsoever to distance myself from any of my party colleagues at all. The things that have been said have been said in a different context and I think this debate is too important for us to be teasing each other with this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141403	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141412	I just want to hear what the Social Democrats really want. Would the Social Democratic Party like legislation in which companies like Uber can become players on the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141423	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141426	For us, it is important that there are clear rules on when taxis are being taken; that there is a driver who has a driving licence; that there are sufficient insurances so that you are not misplaced if it is going wrong; that there are environmental requirements for the cars driving. We are concerned about such things, and we will also be in the context of a new taxi legislation. However, if new technology can be used you can use apps, you can use other • please for us. And we are also looking, as I have said, at whether taxi legislation can be organised in such a way that, for example, we can do something about it. can create public limited companies, which cannot be done today, and have larger units that can get a certain profile, and such things. We'd love to. So we are open to thinking constructively about how to do it. But with the way Uber has been outlined today, too, by the Minister, we do not see for ourselves that it should be legal. But if you conform to the rules that are, well, of course, because it has to be the case that everyone is equal before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141531	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141536	Does that mean that the Social Democrats will allow Uber if everyone who uses that platform has a business licence, that is to say that it must be conditional on entry? Because then I do not really understand what these new technologies can do. But is that what the Social Democrats think, that in order for Uber to be allowed, everyone driving and mating with Uber must have a driving licence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141559	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141602	On the socialist side, we are concerned about road safety and we are concerned about the sensible way things are going. One of the things that could be involved, yes, could be a driving licence. Surely it should not be the case that I lay down one hundred per cent of the exact amount that must be due to a further discussion and I look forward to the Minister of Transport at some point calling us for negotiations on new taxi legislation. But we are very concerned about road safety and we are very concerned about the proper functioning of these things. And as long as we are talking about taxi driving and not co-driving, there are very specific rules, and we think they should be complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141639	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141645	I'd like to start by signing up to Mr. Knox's office. Rasmus Prehn for the statement that we also need to focus forward on the debate on how to modernise our taxi legislation. Hopefully, this can lead to a broad political agreement which forms the basis for a change of law. But then I have to dwell a little on something like that, sir. Rasmus Prehn said. I think I quote correctly when I remember that he said the following: we have great scepticism about Uber. Quote out. I share that scepticism much along the way, because there are a number of problems with Uber which have emerged. That is why I would like to ask: does this scepticism apply to everyone in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group? Well, I've heard, among other things. the former Minister for Economic Affairs and the current Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have even expressed a very positive opinion on Uber, and that is why I would like to know whether this scepticism is shared by everyone in the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141740	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141744	I believe that the quotation that we are sceptical of Uber is absolutely correct. That is what I said here from the platform, and of course everyone in the Socialist Group. And I also believe that Mr. Left... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen usually listens so carefully that he has also heard the answers I gave to the Danish People's Party, which had up to several people asking about the same thing. The comment that was made, as I read it, was that competition and innovation and new technology were welcomed. I think that is sensible, and that is where I think the Social Democrats share the view of the Left that this is something we would like to look at, including in the context of a new taxi legislation. So even if you are sceptical and you want to ensure that the law in force is observed, you have to be open to looking at whether things can be done differently and we would like to do so by the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141836	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141839	Thank you for your answer, but it remains to be seen that there is still some ambiguity as to what the socialist line really is. That is why I would like to move on to another point. Now, sir, he's looking for me. Rasmus Prehn a task force that is one of the slogans of the proposal for adoption that has been put forward. Why is there really a need for a task force? It is therefore in this country that if there is a violation of the law in force, it is a task for the police and the courts, and this process is under way, as the Minister for Justice has explained. Why, then, should a special task force be set up in this particular case to follow up what is just normal practice in police and judicial matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141919	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329141923	Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen it sounds like it's something very special and it's just this case; but the fact is that when we had the Social Democratic Government, we had it in relation to the construction industry too. Money was put off on the Finance Act and other things, so that there could be effort groups that could work to ensure that there was no social dumping on these construction sites. We had a major clean-up work in connection with the Copenhagen metro, where foreign workers had come in and dumped wages. We have put this into practice now, so it is collective pay that is applicable and also so that you work with social clauses and other things, so that you ensure that it is Danish pay and working conditions, and that there are apprentices and such things. So it is really a continuation of the policy we had for the construction industry, where we experienced social dumping, to now also apply to the transport sector, where we also want to combat social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142012	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142023	Some have been kind enough to put the Socialists' proposal for adoption on this glorious Internet. And there really is a wording that I am very surprised about, namely where the Socialists are proposing that legal grey areas arising from new technology be identified and handled. New legislation may have to be implemented so that the same conditions apply to new players as to established ones. What is it in the new technology that requires a change in the taxi law? I know all taxi companies use these apps so you can get a taxi very quickly. Now I've never tried to ride with Uber I could never dream of that but I could imagine that the taxis are at least as fast as Uber is. So what's that in the new technology? Or is it just about the Social Democrats making room for Uber and Uber's business methods in the taxi law? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142115	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142118	There are a number of examples of where these grey areas are, but one of the most obvious examples is, of course, to ensure that there is an answer to the tax on the income that comes to the driver. This is an app-based transaction that transfers money from one person to the other person or to Uber, and it's a little uncertain whether there's going to be an answer to tax on this. And if it is that we need a technology where we can pay in that way, then we also need to know that the quota is actually paid to society, that tax will be paid. So it's one of these gray areas. I will not accept that there are people driving taxi rides without it paying taxes, and that is why I want to make sure that what you might call a legal grey area is uncovered and then you get a method made to ensure that there is an answer to tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142209	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142212	Thank you. So I have to ask, what does that have to do with the taxi law? In other words, tax rules are regulated by other legislation, so it is just to write there that Uber has an obligation to provide information. It's not more complicated. So what are some changes the Socialists want to make to the taxi law? And are the changes really about the Social Democrats deciding that there should be room for Uber's business methods, namely that you should be able to drive a taxi in goose eyes in the way that Uber does? The rapporteur can also respond in another way. The rapporteur is opposed to social dumping. Does the rapporteur agree that Uber is a pirate driver and promotes undeclared work and that this is contrary to the rules in force in taxi legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142301	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142305	Before it was included in the taxi law in Denmark that there should be a taximeter and there should be a seat sensor in the seat that could ensure that all trips were paid for, there was a lot of black work and there was a lot of cheating on taxes. This has been written into the taxi legislation, so this issue has something to do with taxi law. We need to know that if you are going for a ride and there is a transaction, then there is also sufficient evidence that there will be an answer to the tax. It could, for example, be done. be at a taximeter because so far it has proved to be the only sufficiently safe method to ensure it. There may be multiple profiles on an app, and there may be other problems. That is why we need to make this clear, and I simply have to admit that I do not know enough about this yet. It may well be that Enhedslistens Finn Sørensen knows all about this problem, but I am humble enough to want to have it explored further, because I have at least been told that there are problems in securing the tax payment when it is based only on an app.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142407	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142412	Sir. Rasmus Prehn says that his proposal for adoption addresses social dumping and also includes it with a task force. It is, of course, true that it has been mentioned, but it is not enough to mention the right words in such a proposal for adoption. It is, of course, the work that is crucial, and that is why I think it is a pity that the Socialists will not be behind the proposal for adoption we have made together with the SF and the Danish People's Party, because it also says how to do it here. Sir. Rasmus Prehn himself said that this is under the inspiration of what you also have in the construction industry. So there is nothing unknown, and there is no question of that, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn said that this is a mix of judicial and legislative authorities. This is a control company, it is a question of demanding or demanding stronger action, because this problem has grown so huge and nobody knows the extent of it, but we can only hear that the taxi drivers are telling us that they can already feel it now in the form of huge revenue cuts, in other words people who are trying to have an income on this, can already feel it. That is why we need to take action now, because new or old taxi legislation does not matter at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142530	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142532	I am afraid I cannot really change the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. So it is the case that a proposal for adoption is about words, and there must be 150 of them, and that shows a direction. There, too, we have tried to make 150 words to the best of our ability, along with the alternative, which shows a direction, and there we have written in the task force, and we have said no to social dumping because we think that these are very important words that send a very strong signal of a particular direction. We fully agree with the Enhedslisten, which is why we also hope that, after all, the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of our proposal, because there are precisely those words that give it this direction. We have also written something about the fact that we would like to think about whether new technology can be taken into account, whether better environment can be taken into account, whether tribulation and such things can be combated in this. I think that is also a few words that are sending a direction that Enhedslisten should also be able to see himself in where we usually agree in this area. So, yes, a text for adoption is about words. The important thing is what words they are and that they send the right signal, and I think the Socialist proposal for adoption does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142640	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142642	It is true that we are talking about words, we cannot run away from them, but that is precisely the content of the words, and I have to say that I think that the proposal for adoption by the Socialists and the Alternative is precisely a lot of poetry, something very unconcrete, the whole of this embrace of new technology. That is what we think is so dangerous to do in connection with Uber, because Uber has nothing to do with new technology. Uber is using a technology that also exists in the taxi industry in advance for that matter, but the problem is, of course, that Uber is • I think we agree on social dumping, black economy and all the ugly things you can find and say about a company and a company, and that is why we think it is extremely dangerous to link it up to providing space for a company like Uber in connection with new technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142734	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142736	In fact, we do not write anything in our proposal for adoption that we are now giving room to any particular company. We are setting out a certain framework of principle, in which we stress that taxes must be paid and that there must be orderly conditions. We stress that there should not be social dumping, but then we also say that if we can do it smarter and more intelligently, if we can increase consumer friendliness, if we can take better account of the environment and congestion, then we are okay. I would like to warn against simply making it an end in itself to be against a new technology. I hope that is not the position of Enhedslisten. I do not see it that way, and that is why I still hope that the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of our proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142820	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142824	Thank you. It sounds to the Socialist rapporteur as if the only problem here is the obvious obstacle to Uber being on the market as far as the taxi law in force is concerned. In my optics, Uber is an application, that is, something that a billion people can use and download. And that's all there is. Mr. Rasmus Prehn, that it has to be the case with this application, that if only the existing taxi drivers could pick their seat sensors, their taximeters and all sorts of things out of the cars and sign up under Uber's tabs, then everything was good, because then everyone's in the new technology, and that's it? They just have to remember to pay taxes. That is how I understand the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142912	It is quite true that these were some of the things I mentioned. But it has to be seen from an overall perspective. It's arranged relationships in everything we want to ensure. That is why, in our proposal for adoption, we mention precisely that we are opposed to social dumping. We are opposed to tax evasion. And we're against it when it's out of control for sure. So it's a bigger perspective, it needs to be seen in. I do not think it can be cut out as squarely as Mrs Pia Adelsteen of the Danish People's Party does here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329142946	I was just waiting for a little light. Then you can hear what's being said. That's probably very wise. It is possible that the rapporteur believes that it is being cut very squarely. That's the way it is sometimes. But perhaps that is because there are some doubts, I would say, when one from the Socialists and Mr. Rasmus Prehn side hears that we have to change the legislation because new technology is coming because there has to be increased competition. After all, we have a taxi bill which is that you can get some funding around precisely to service areas where, to put it mildly, it can be difficult to get a car sometimes. That's why we have a taxi law. This means that you have some obligations as a taxi driver. Then Uber comes and then the Socialists sit and say: now we simply have to look at everything, because it is new technology and everyone must be exposed to competition. That's how I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143049	I see that as a caricature of what I have said or as a distorted version of what I have said. What we have said is that we want to ensure that there are clear rules in this area. We are opposed to social dumping. We're opposed to tax fraud. We want to ensure that this is dealt with in the form of a task force, and then we have said that we would like to look at new taxi legislation. We would like to see whether we can take into account some of the new things that are in this area so that we can still secure the proper framework, but also that there is, for example, the right framework. is possible for greater user-friendliness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143130	The last person I have on the list of speakers for the time being is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143133	Thank you. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is one thing I simply do not understand, which the Socialist rapporteur might be able to help me with. Sir. Rasmus Prehn told us several times about the new technology in connection with Uber. What's Uber doing out of new technology? Can't we just get three or five examples of Uber adding new technology to the taxi industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143206	I also believe that Mr. Søren Søndergaard of Enhedslisten is a little guilty of misinterpreting what I said. We are talking from the Socialists about new technology at all. There may be someone else who has new technology. It may be that there is an already existing taxi company working with a technology that they would like to include on the agenda. I don't specifically mention Uber and say it's their new technology, i.e. that they have an app. Sir. Søren Søndergaard's own party colleague, Mr. Henning Hyllested said very well in his rapporteur's speech that these apps are also available from other taxi companies. But we on the Socialist side are open to new technology in general. Maybe somebody else has a way of organizing this. We'd like to take a look at that. It may also be that more demands should be made for the cars used to be particularly gentle on the environment, and that requires a certain technology. So this can be very broad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143309	Then I get it better. So the discussion we have now is not about Uber and new technology at all. New technology is about some others and the future. So the question is: when we have Uber, why not just comply with the rules that already exist in taxi law? Why should they not just keep them to the letter, just as everyone else without exception should? As the rapporteur has just confirmed that there is no special new technology, we can use all the time we want to change the taxi legislation in the interests of future and future technological innovation. But Uber just has to keep the rules that are. Why shouldn't it be like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143351	The thing is, that's exactly what it's supposed to be. That's why we want a task force. There is legislation in force. There are indications that it is not being observed. That is why, in our proposal for adoption, we propose a task force to ensure that applicable law is respected. At the same time, we say: let us look at new technology and look at the possibilities in it. We are open to this from the Socialist side. I really hope that Enhedslisten does not have as adopted policy that one is opposed to new technology just to be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143417	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn and goes further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143426	Thank you. Well, well over a year ago, the Traffic Authority reported this service. Then I am glad that the Minister for Justice can say today that at long last after countless wise and respected people have said that there was nothing to prevent Uber from being accused of this. What may then surprise me is that we also need to press charges against drivers who are openly violating the law. If we were now to raise charges against ordinary drivers on the street because the car's equipment is not entirely in accordance with the law, we would then have to raise some cases, some charges which could then be tried by all the authorities. No, you print a ticket. I understand that this was done at the beginning with Uber. It was then stopped by the police management. Having said this, I would like to say that I think there is a lot of discussion about this app. It's almost as if it's a whole revolution that there's been an app that I don't know how it looks. But I know what it should look like. It should look like this, because what does that app do? It organizes pirate driving. It may be that an app isn't illegal, but it's being used to create crime and illegal activity. No one in this Chamber is in any doubt that driving a taxi car bypasses all these rules now in the taxi business is illegal. So the app is being used to organize a criminal act. So I don't know what you want to stamp by a majority in here in the next moment of apps that can organize everything around the world. I could mention many types of crime that could perhaps be organised via an app. I'd like to know if you'd like to get a blue stamp too. I would actually have liked to start my rapporteur's speech with the following quote: I do not think I would be familiar with stealing it: Uber is systematically organised pirate driving that undermines all conditions in the labour market. They act directly in violation of the law...Uber is a charging gate for tax evasion and it must be stopped. Sorry it took a while, but it's because it's written so small. This is a quote, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn. We were at the drivers' house at 3F. Where'd it go? I remember getting punched in the table out there. Sir. Henning Hyllested was present, sir. Karsten Hønge was present. We represented a majority in the Folketing. Everyone's been quoted as wanting to stop this cheating. But Mr. Rasmus Prehn apparently not, because then it is just to vote for the proposal for adoption from Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti. Now I mention them in reverse order, I think. It's nice to be unselfish once in a while. Why does the Social Democrats not just vote for the proposal, rather than having to have a lot of talk about new taxi legislation? This is not about new taxi legislation. We'll meet about that sometime. Now it's just that those who drive around out there have to comply with existing legislation. I guess I could ask you a little tricky. Now, sir. Rasmus Prehn used his speaking time, but I would like to ask: if the same three parties are now tabling a motion for a resolution to set up a task force, will S support that proposal very briefly? I can get an answer at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since we have not made too brief a comment, we go further in the rapporteur's line. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329143851	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten for asking this question. I think it is a good thing that we are debating the situation of passenger transport in Denmark, as this is a matter that we will be working on a great deal in the future. Let me start by making it clear that the Left wants to take care of the labour market. Furthermore, we want fair competition between our private companies. This also applies to commercial passenger transport, also known as the taxi industry. We have looked forward to this debate on Uber, where two things should, however, be distinguished: firstly, the pending case of Uber's legality with regard to taxi law and, secondly, the future legal framework for passenger transport. First of all, I would like to make a few comments on the pending case. Uber was introduced in Copenhagen on 19 November 2014. On the same day, the Danish Transport and Construction Agency asked the Copenhagen Police to clarify whether Uber was violating the taxi law. The reason is that it requires a permit to carry out passenger transport on payment from customers, also known as commercial passenger transport. It is a clear task for the police and courts to ensure the enforcement of applicable law in Denmark. On 17 March 2015, Uber was charged by the police with violation of the Taxi Code. The Minister of Justice has already explained the status and further progress of the case. In the Left, we are very much looking forward to finally having a court settlement within a little month, precisely on 26 April. I am sure that a great many others, other than us, are looking forward to a long-awaited clarification, including the many frustrated taxi drivers and frustrated taxi drivers. As I said, I see it as a standing task for the police and courts to ensure compliance with applicable legislation in close cooperation with all relevant authorities. With regard to the forward-looking legal framework for passenger transport, I would like to make the following point: there is an urgent need for more modern legislation on passenger transport. There is a need to ensure good taxi coverage both in cities and in the countryside. It's about a Denmark in balance. The pervasive taxi death must be stopped. In this context, taxi coverage is needed in the strict context of public service traffic, Flextrafik and local bus transport. These are connected vessels. In addition, there is an urgent need to make room for innovation and innovation in the passenger transport industry. The aim is to ensure space for new development opportunities and efficiency for the benefit of customers and for the industry itself. Reasonable use of new knowledge and technology has historically contributed to more prosperity in Denmark. It is therefore very satisfactory that the government intends to put forward a proposal for modernising the taxi law following the necessary political process, in order to ensure precisely room for innovation and innovation, in other words a controlled deregulation of the taxi market. In this context, it is essential that we ensure a sound legal basis for fair competition, for orderly conditions, for compliance with tax legislation and for passenger safety. A means of this could be the introduction of a new universal licence, in which we politically define clear, basic minimum requirements for those who want to make money from transporting people. There is nothing unpleasant about making money out of it, but then you have to live up to clearly defined minimum requirements. I look forward to a political debate on all this in the coming weeks, and I would like to put forward the following (on behalf of V, LA, RV and KF): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wishes to see the labour market dealt with, including in the taxi industry. The Danish Parliament notes that the first cases against drivers who have run on the basis of communication from Uber are due to be brought before the court on 26 April 2016 and in this context looks forward to a clarification as to whether these journeys comply with taxi law. Against this background, the authorities will consider further efforts to ensure compliance with applicable law. Exploitation of new knowledge and technology has historically resulted in increased prosperity. Therefore, the Danish Parliament welcomes the Government's intention to make proposals for modernising taxi legislation in order to ensure room for innovation and new technologies in the field of commercial passenger transport in a market characterised by fair competition, compliance with tax legislation and safety for passengers. • V 43).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144421	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and first it is Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144429	Thank you. I'm just wondering if sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and I have read the same query text. Because now Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen was here talking about future legislation, about innovation and innovation, and that is, of course, also a way of doing so. If you really have nothing to say, you can talk about something quite different from what it is about. But we have no doubt about that, and we have actually agreed with the Minister that we are now about to create new legislation in this area. That is just not what this question is about, because it is about whether what Uber is doing is illegal and then I would like to ask: does Mr. President think that this is the case? Kristian Pihl Lorentzen that what Uber is doing at the moment is completely in line with taxi law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144521	I don't think so, and that's probably why the board has reported Uber to the police. There are clearly some problems with respect to compliance with the law on commercial passenger transport, but we will be fully aware of this here on 26 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144536	Yes, sir. That's right. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also said that we must now await a judicial decision. But why should we wait for something that is contrary to taxi law? Where has the taxi driver card of the Uber drivers who have been stopped been? Where's the meter been? Where's the video camera been? Where are the sensors in the seats? These are already four infringements of taxi law, and several of them probably do not have the right to passenger transport in the form of a driving licence. That's so no. 5. What is it, sir? Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is still in doubt and wants the courts to decide? Why don't the police just write out fines? They will if I'm stopped to drive 7 km too fast; they can find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144625	I don't really have much of a doubt. But it is now the case that we have the division of power in Denmark, and it is Parliament's job to pass laws, and that is what we have done here, and we must also do so in this area, and then it is the task of the police and the courts to ensure that those laws are enforced. I fully agree that one hundred per cent of compliance with the law must be ensured, and that is also what I hear the Minister of Justice has indicated here. Then I can admit that a little time has passed before these matters have arrived, but I am delighted that this is finally happening, and this will be a precedent for the future. It's the same way as when you break speed limits. Then you get a sanction, and so will you if you violate the law on professional passenger transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144703	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144710	I understood the rapporteur's reply to Mr Seligman's question. Kim Christiansen and it was a clear answer that, in the rapporteur's view, these were illegal acts in relation to what is going on, and I think it is nice to hear that you are aware of that. So I would like to hear why you are not in favour of a special effort being made here. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that the standing effort had to be made. I think the wording was by the police and the courts. However, we believe, as our proposal for adoption also shows, that special efforts are needed, as was the case in the construction industry, when the problem of social dumping grew large and unmanageable. And we think that has actually happened in the taxi industry. I do not know whether the rapporteur has any comments on this, but that is why we are proposing to make a special effort with cross-border cooperation between the police, the SKAT and the Traffic Authority in order to put an end to this. There is an assessment that it is quite a lot of thousands of Uber drivers who are already on the streets and who, as I myself have already said, are picking the bread out of the mouths of the right taxi drivers and road hauliers. That is why I think it indicates that a special effort is needed in the form of a task force, as we have called it in our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144826	Yes, I admit that there are problems, and I understand the great frustration on the streets, especially here in Copenhagen. But I also believe that it is a standing task for the police to follow up on this. It is of course pointless that every time we find a problem, we set up a task force. The police have a great many tasks at the moment, including: in the context of terrorist preparedness and in the context of the whole management of the refugee crisis. So I think it is a slippery slope that every time there is a challenge, you set up a task force that needs to have a special focus. Nah, I expect that after this trial, it's part of a normal daily practice for the police to enforce this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144908	It's just that there's not really any indication of that if you look at the experience so far. Because it has taken a very long time, as the rapporteur and the Minister have also admitted, and we have had a little bit of spit in one way or another. And it is true, as the rapporteur himself points out, that there is a great deal of frustration on the streets and out among taxi drivers, and that is something we have an obligation to look at. We do not believe that a task force should be set up in all sorts of strange contexts, but it is clear that when a problem has become so great that it also gives rise to quite great frustrations in large sections of the population and in a whole profession, then we think it is worth addressing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144948	Well, I cannot say more clearly: I certainly expect the police to enforce this legislation in future, and I hear that is also the clear position of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329144956	The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145002	Thank you. Something puzzled me, because the rapporteur said that he expected the police to take action against the illegal activities after the trial. Why after the trial? In other words, if the rapporteur agrees with at least the Danish People's Party that what is going on with these drivers is illegal, so that they do not comply with the taxi law, which I expect the rapporteur knows, why should we wait to do something about it after a trial? I do not think so either, because after all, some people have been taken to court. But I guess you have to make sure that the law is observed all the time. That is one question. The second question is about something quite different. The rapporteur said that it is intended that a new taxi law should clearly define minimum requirements for drivers. Does the rapporteur not think it is in the existing taxi law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145058	First of all, I regret it if I expressed myself unclearly. I very much welcome the fact that some Uberchaffer have already been caught; it is now going to court, and then there is a judgment in those trial cases. So you really shouldn't wait. I expect the law to be enforced all the time and that it should continue. With regard to the minimum requirements that must be in a future law, this is something we have to negotiate; I also hope to see the Danish People's Party in what they tend to be active and constructive at the negotiating table. And, of course, that is where we have to go and define what minimum requirements are needed in order to make commercial passenger transport at all: what must be met if you want to make money driving with other people? There's nothing unorthodox about that. For example, one of the fundamentals is that it is absolutely guaranteed that you pay taxes, so it dared to be as obvious as that passengers are insured, and there are a number of other things, and we are ready to go in and negotiate with the Danish People's Party and other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145201	My question, however, was this: it is all right to negotiate a new taxi law; there may be things that need to be changed; that is the way we change it all the time, but define the existing taxi law as it is now, not in Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's optics very clear what minimum requirements there are for driving and transporting people? I ask, because you can just look up and see it in the Order of the Taxi Driving Act, which states in Section 1 that the person carrying out the commercial carriage of passengers (taxi, limousine, sick transport and public service) with a Danish registered motor vehicle designed for the carriage of a maximum of 9 persons, including the driver, must be permitted to do so. And I don't know that when you drive for Uber. That's where things are going wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145253	Yes, and that is also why there is a problem with taxi legislation. But when we need a new law, it is for two reasons. Firstly, there is an increasing taxi death across the country, and I know that the Danish People's Party is also concerned about stopping. Secondly, we in the Left are in favour of achieving more dynamic innovation in the passenger transport sector. It's not all just static. There will be some new ways of organizing, new technology will come, and we would like to take that into account. It was also a step forward when you walked away from steam trains and to electric trains, although I like steam trains very much. So there are still some new things to come, and we must take that into account, and we must, of course, put it in place so that there is fair competition and proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145332	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Joachim B. Olsen, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145356	Thank you so much. I think I certainly hope that if you see this debate in the future in 10-20 years' time you will laugh, because I am convinced that by then these new technologies, which Uber is an expression of, will be a completely common feature of our everyday life. This is something we want to take in, it is something we want. The current legislation does not reflect the order of things, because it is legislation that gives monopoly status. And when you have legislation that gives you monopoly status, it is precisely an expression of the fact that you do not have an orderly regulatory environment, and that is why you should change the legislation. Sometimes it's like some people think the world shouldn't change. In other words, is it really imagined that taxi legislation in the future will look as it does today? Of course it won't, because the world is changing. There will be new technologies that come new ways of doing things, new ways of providing the same services, and this is an example of a technology that Uber has created. We in the West have become rich because we have embraced new technologies. It is often technologies that enable us to make better use of the resources we have. And that's what Uber's platform does. It makes ordinary citizens' cars a potential capital asset something they can make money from. This is a huge improvement for ordinary people. Technology makes the barriers to entry into the labour market and making money lower. It's great, and of course we're gonna have to take care of that. The truth is that what Uber has done with their platform is that they have solved many of the challenges that regulatory politicians have thought required strict regulation. You can, for example, when you order a car with Uber, see the driver, see what kind of car he comes in, see the license plate. You can share the route with your friends and family. You have a guarantee, even if you are a tourist, that you are not cheated. I think we've all experienced that if we've taken a taxi abroad... does the taxi driver now take the straight way there? You don't know the city yourself, and so on. You don't have that problem with Uber. You can see the route on your phone. You install the driver. Did you get a good service? Have you been treated well? If the driver's rating falls, he can no longer run for Uber. And the driver also installs the customer. If the customer doesn't behave, he can't use Uber either. You have to have a clean record to ride with Uber. You have to have an insurance policy, and as I understand it, Uber also assures the trips by up to a million dollars a year. Then, of course, you have to pay taxes on your income if you are a Uber driver. No one disagrees with that. And it has to be said that it is a huge advantage with such technology because it is electronic. There's no cash in the game. I don't know if all taxi drivers pay taxes on the tips they get and it can run up but I don't think they do. It's not really something I get outraged about either. But it can't happen with Uber. It is much easier for tax authorities to check whether an Uber driver pays tax on his income than it is to check what a craftsman earns in his spare time and uses his hammer for or what a hairdresser uses his scissors for. It's a lot easier. That's why we should really have a completely different attitude to this and say that it's super good, too, from a tax collection point of view... that there are these technologies where everything is done electronically. It's very easy to control. When Uber has become such a great success, not just in Denmark, but worldwide, it is an expression that there is a demand for this. There is a demand for new ways of providing services. Nor does Uber find it difficult to get drivers who like flexibility. Uber is not an employer and does not have the right to direct and distribute the work. You decide when you want to drive; you can drive a lot, you can drive a little. It gives a freedom that people like, and among other things. That's why we need to embrace this technology. That is why what we should be discussing today is new legislation and not how to slow down new technology. In my view, this is out of the question, because in Denmark we have always been good at taking on board new technologies, and that is one of the main reasons why we are a rich country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145930	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329145936	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen is known for almost flashing his good relationship with Uber, and peace be with it. It may be, sir. Joachim B. Olsen takes the view that it is actually taxi law, it is quite wrong with the possibility. But is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen did not agree that what is happening, that is to say the driving that is taking place, is taking place in violation of taxi law? Then you like it or not, but that is the legislation that is, and whatever may come in the future, what is going on right now and here is illegal, isn't it? I mean, when sir... Joachim B. Olsen gets into a Ubertaxa, doesn't he really contribute to the promotion, what to say, of an illegal company? That's like taking a black artisan to get something done in his villa, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150043	No, it's not like using a black artisan. It has become such a truth in the debate that Uber drivers do not pay taxes on their income. I have not heard that anyone has been able to document that claim. When I ride with Uber, I often ask the driver: Do you pay taxes? Do you pay taxes on your income? And they say yes to that. Now I am not so naive to believe everything people say, but what I am told is that they have approached the SKAT and that the SKAT has, moreover, been very helpful in their behaviour. Many have chosen to have a completely different bank, i.e. where they get their income from Uber over a completely different bank, so that they completely separate their economy so that what they earn from Uber is taxed etc. I think that this debate is marked by many myths and by the fact that something has been heard and so on, without proving it. So I have to say again that, if that is the argument, why should there not be a special regulation of hairdressers or craftsmen? I also think that there are craftsmen I've heard about the work that sometimes does work that they don't pay taxes on. It does not mean that we want the same regulation of the craftsmen as we do of the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150206	Thank you. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150209	No, but the difference is, of course, that they are out on their own, while here in reality there is a company that is behind it. I know they say they don't, but that's how you see it in general. You could have wiped out a lot of myths about this if Uber simply reported the money they pay out to the drivers. At a small hearing we had, they informed us that they were actually able to do so. Then why hasn't this happened? They thought it was the fault of the SKAT that it did not occur, but I shall not go into that further. Is it not true that the company of Uber's drivers, the pirate driving they do, undermines the livelihood of other people on taxi driving and that future taxi driving, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen imagines it to be done by people with two jobs or by people who get transfer income, or what do I know? In other words, it is not a regular employee who works in an orderly manner, be it contractual or the requirements imposed by the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150311	The thing about arranged relationships isn't something anyone can patent. For me, arranged relationships are that parties voluntarily enter into agreements with each other, and they do so with Uber. You know as a driver what the income is. If the demand for drivers decreases and thus the profits, you stop driving. This is also an indication that new technology is the way we work, and that will only happen if people actually want to. No one is forced to, and people really like it. Are we gonna stand in the way of that? I do not think so, because then I do not think we serve the interests of the general good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150354	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150402	Thank you, and I'm sorry; I was just reading. You know, it's always nice to see Mr. Simpson. Joachim B. Olsen is just stopping by the hall from some planet he's been in for a while. I have to ask you something. For Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and also a number of other rapporteurs talk about the fact that we now need to look at new taxi legislation and that we need to discuss new technology. I don't mind a new technology. Now apps aren't exactly the new moon landing or anything like that. There are lots of apps. This one might be able to see something that the taxi industry already can't, and peace be with it, you might be able to invent that. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen does not just confirm to me that what is going on with the clean driving is contrary to taxi law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150451	I don't know which one of you, sir. Kim Christiansen and me, mostly in the hall, I think it's me. I'm definitely on this planet, and it's a planet where there are people, and people have the amazing ability to develop new things. They are creative and find new ways to provide services. Kim Christiansen will stand in the way of that. I think that Mr. Kim Christiansen is extremely backward-looking in this question. What interests, sir? Kim Christiansen usually doesn't want me to be able to say anything about it. But I can certainly see that what has made the Western world rich is precisely that we have taken on board new technologies. This is an expression of it, and that is why I believe that we must, of course, organise the legislation in such a way that this is possible. Otherwise, we do not have legislation that meets the needs and wishes of the people. Such concepts here will only be successful if people actually want to take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150559	Now I don't think I'm usually backward-looking. But I just think that when you have legislation in one area, those who are now on the market must follow it. Then we can discuss whether we need a new taxi legislation, but that is a job we need to do. It just has nothing to do with this debate. That would tempt me to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: Are there other areas where Mr. Joachim B. Olsen could imagine changing the law so that things were legalized, for example. an app for hash trading or an app for illegal arms trafficking or something like that, so you could get these illegals organized somehow? And if it didn't go exactly according to plan, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen wanted it, so you could always change the law. That's a slightly backward way of thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150643	First of all, it is up to the courts to decide whether this is legal. There's a case going on, and there's gonna be a warrant. But for me, this is about the fact that the legislation is not always perfect. I don't think it's perfect. There are also other areas where I do not think it is perfect. We can take the pharmaceutical legislation, which I do not think is perfect either. Every time you have legislation that gives you a monopoly state, it is precisely an expression of the fact that you do not have proper legal arrangements, and then you should change them. And then it is the case that, as politicians, we are always on the verge of development. We couldn't have imagined five years ago that there would be an app like this. It'd be nice if we could have done that. I guess we did something else and made a lot of money. But we must, of course, follow developments in society and organise legislation accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150736	For general information, I should just like to say that you can see in front of you how much speaking time you have left and adjust your answers to that. We are going a little too far over time at the moment. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150747	Thank you. That's because we're so caught that we forget to look at the clock, sir. President. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he does not think that the existing legislation, which is, after all, in force now, should be complied with until any new legislation is adopted. When I ask, it is of course in the light of the fact that the drivers who drive around for Uber and then I really don't care whether it is a smart app or whatver doesn't comply with the taxi legislation in force, which means that you have to have a licence for passenger transport. Then it is quite fair and square that you think the legislation is idiotic and that you want to change it. That is why we are many politicians who have wanted to make some changes. That is why we are sitting here. We cannot always get a majority, but that is why we are here. But as long as the legislation is as it is, I assume that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also believes that it must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150847	I think it should. But it is not up to us to decide whether it is respected; it is up to the courts to assess it. And there is a case going on, and there too I believe that as politicians we must respect that process and not make assessments ourselves. We can make assessments of whether the legislation is being complied with ourselves, but it is ultimately the courts that have to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150915	Yes, of course it is always right that the courts should decide whether or not they have broken the law. There is no doubt about that. But then I will ask in another way: does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that the drivers driving for Uber comply with applicable taxi law? Because I'm assuming that mr. Joachim B. Olsen knows the taxi law, where you need a taxi license, where you need a feel in the seat, where you need a taximeter, etc. etc. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that law is being observed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329150949	But it is a question of whether it is a co-driving operation or whether it is not a co-driving operation. I would like to put it this way that I think the legislation is wrong. I think that we already have legislation that should be changed, and I thought we had that before Uber got on the ground. Uber has been the catalyst for more and more people to see that we have completely inappropriate taxi legislation and that we should therefore change it. A process has been set in motion, and I just think that process should go really fast. Because the sooner we get the legislation changed, so that these new technologies can come into play, the greater the gains for ordinary citizens in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151031	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151035	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen said that the fantastic thing with such an app was that then there were transactions where you could be absolutely sure that tax was paid. One of the criticisms that have been made is that there is the possibility of having more profiles and more bank accounts and more. But sir... Joachim B. Olsen guarantees that there is no cheating by giving up something to the IRS while driving the rest black? How can Mr. Joachim B. Olsen be sure that won't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151106	There is always the possibility that some people cheat. There are also craftsmen. There are also craftsmen who work black, and there are probably people from 3F who work black or sometimes buy black work. I don't know if sir. Rasmus Prehn can guarantee it doesn't exist. I don't think so, sir. Rasmus Prehn can. We cannot always organise legislation according to the lowest common denominator. I would just point out that in other countries such as the United States, for example, there is a need for a common approach. The Norwegian authorities have highlighted Uber as a technology that makes it much easier to ensure that the tax that is now due is paid. That is why I believe that this whole discussion should be turned upside down if technologies such as the one provided by Uber are turned into a threat to the non-payment of taxes. I mean, it's completely the other way around. This technology helps to ensure that it will be much easier to ensure that the tax is paid, and that is why I think we should be much more accommodating to this type of technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151218	In the present tax legislation, it is precisely the case that a seat sensor and a taximeter are required, because this has been the way to ensure that controls are kept on driving, what revenue there is, and therefore also what tax should be paid. The rapporteur then mentions Norway. I could mention Sweden, because I understand that it has just been demanded that if you have to ride with what is equivalent to Uber or anything like that, you have to have a taximeter in order to have this control. Does the arguments put forward by the rapporteur that it is particularly certain that it is an app, then not a bit to the point when others say it does not work at all and that they need to introduce increased controls? Even when you have legislation in this area, which in the taxi area ensures that seat sensors and taximeters cannot be cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151309	No, because Uber's technology addresses the problem of having seat sensors in traditional taxis. That's the whole point. Seat sensors are necessary if you want, because you can pay cash, but it also makes it easy to cheat. It was introduced because there was a lot of cheating in the taxi business. It's about something a business that has been in the tax authorities' spotlight historically, but because it's electronic with Uber, so you can only pay through your app, you don't need seat sensors. That is what I am trying to say, namely that this technology has solved many of the challenges that have made it necessary, at least among some politicians, to regulate the taxi industry very strictly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151359	The provisional last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151404	I can understand that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen says he's very excited about new technology. In fact, the rapporteur believes that this is simply the cause of all wealth. But isn't this about how to use the technology? Well, it's not all technology that in itself brings wealth, if that technology is developed to destroy a society, for example. I do not think it is in this case; it is just to problematize the fact that you blindly say that any kind of new technology is just of the good. What I'd like to ask, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is the business model, regardless that technology is not always good; it depends on how it is handled and what it is used for. That's one. The second in relation to Uber is the app itself, i.e. the new technology itself as a by-product. What this is about is the business model, and what does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen about the business model itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151455	I mean, it's a pretty amazing business model. This is an expression of a technology that makes us richer because it enables ordinary people to make money from what has historically not been an asset but a passive one. Well, you bought a car; that car has stood still most of the time; now it can be used to make money too. In other words, there is a resource that comes into play, and that is the way we are getting richer, namely that new resources are coming into play. I could then ask the rapporteur otherwise: does the rapporteur think that it is a destructive technology when we have unmanageable metro trains, i.e. when nobody works in them at all? Is it a destructive technology because it completely eliminates jobs? The rapporteur does not think so unless the rapporteur does not understand much of what technologies are actually creating wealth. It is precisely technologies that free resources or bring new resources into play and it does Uber's technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151559	For whom is that wealth? In this situation, we will be able to experience that some individuals who may already have a full-time job go out and drive their own car and make some money while other people get fired from their jobs. Socially, I find it difficult to see that it should contribute to anything other than a very short-term profit for the individual citizen and be of irreparable harm to the rest of society. I guess that's what's really going on, isn't it? Joachim B. Olsen's dream, namely a society with as few restrictions as possible and a labour market with as little regulation as possible. Isn't it? This can be achieved through Uber, for example, so that for the individual it can be an advantage, but that for the entire society it is a deficit business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151643	But this technology is not a deficit business for society as a whole. In other words, if you look at the countries where it has become the most widespread, for example. In the United States, it has not been seen that the passenger transport market has been reduced. It's gotten bigger. It has grown considerably because more people simply use passenger transport. Taxis are still gone, and they even work with Uber. There have been many other services. Uber provides disability services, and you can drive in different cars. There is a variety of different services, and there are also many platforms other than Uber, and that's one of the interesting things about this. If you drive a driver in the United States, you'll find that he's not only driving for Uber, but also for Loeff and all sorts of other services. So there is also competition on the employers' side that pushes up wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151731	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments in this round, so we thank Mr. President and move on in the rapporteur's line. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329151743	The question today is very specific about Uber and what the government wants to do to get rid of illegal taxi driving. It is a very specific issue which unfortunately also takes for granted that Uber and the car owners who use Uber are breaking the law. We have not been fully clarified yet, whether or not to what extent and in what way they do so. Unfortunately, this also makes the debate a little cold, because we lack an important, firm piece in what we will get at least part of in a small month's time. However, it may also help to raise our eyes a little and discuss some of the issues which, in my view, cannot be separated from the discussion about Uber. What size is Uber? Is it part economy, or is it a gig economy? Is that taxi driving? And how do we deal with it as a society and parliament, when technology and global digitalisation have a direct impact on Danish citizens, Danish employees and entire industries? I do not think that Uber has anything to do with shared economy, as I see it, and let me be clear straight away: Delekonomi is such a thing as GoMore, if we talk about transport, where a car owner has to go from one place to another and turn up the trip to give others the opportunity to come cheaply from A to B and even save on the trip. At the same time, it reduces potential congestion if only one of the passengers would otherwise have driven himself. Deløkonomi can also be a common minibus in a village or when a road guild is shared about a garden tractor, and I am crazy about deløkonomi that makes up the idea that we should all own it all when it can actually be better to share it. But that's not what Uber is all about. Uber makes it possible to organise passenger transport, particularly in large cities, but in the long term also around the country, in a flexible and fast way. In principle, services such as Uber can make us use resources wiser, but unfortunately, as things stand at present, Uber also offers far too much scope for avoiding tax payments, and there is absolutely no security and security for either driver or passengers in a taxi. There is no doubt that there are some major problems in terms of how we are to deal with those challenges, but they need to be addressed. Uber or, for that matter, other digital communication platforms such as Airbnb or Fiverr are in strong advance all over the world, and this certainly does not mean that we should just lay down flat for them and accept their entry into the Danish market without keeping them accountable for whether they comply with Danish legislation. For of course, players on Danish soil must comply with Danish law, but if Danish law is not geared to or prepared for the new digital platforms, we will also have to look at whether the law is sufficiently secure for the future. If we stand with our arms crossed and want to ban everything we do not already know and come to Denmark from abroad, then we will have a very closed and very little innovative country. Instead, we should look at the challenges facing the taxi industry in this case, while at the same time daring to see the benefits that can be found in the new technologies. The same technologies can also be used to distribute resource consumption sensibly, provide better opportunities to choose sustainable solutions and give people with a more loose connection to a field of work an opportunity to unfold. When the whole way we work is breaking up and more and more people choose to piece together a working life from different activities, we should look more closely at how to ensure working conditions, pensions and safety for employees and those who combine to be employees and self-employed, rather than going hard to shut it down. In my view, this is done in a wise dialogue with the industries and public players, who, as things stand now, account for half the turnover of traditional taxi services, and of course also the new players in the market, who come with experience and skills from other countries. The alternative therefore believes that we as legislators should be proactive and listen to both the taxi industry and Uber when we look at how taxi legislation should be updated. Finally, to return to the question itself, I would like to stress that, in the alternative, we are of course of the opinion that companies operating on Danish soil must comply with Danish legislation, no matter how large, new and innovative they are. We also think that we have included this in the text of the adoption that we have made together with the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152205	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152209	Actually, it was sir. Nikolaj Amstrup's reference to Uber, who made me comment briefly, because that is what this question debate is really about, and not about all sorts of other things that have been brought up. I actually got the impression from the publicity that Mr. Nikolai Amstrup said by Uber that one is extremely sceptical about what Uber represents. Sir. Nikolaj Amstrup did not go as far as to call it illegal, for there is no evidence of that, but that is so typical of politicians, namely that when we do not have a judgment, there is no real proof of it either, but one is allowed to have an opinion on what is really true. That's why I can't quite understand why Mr. Nikolaj Amstrup can also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, DF and Enhedslisten, because if what is going on is illegal, it must also be combated, and if it has the extent that it seems to have been achieved, then a special effort must also be made, as we do, for example. Knows it from the construction industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152326	I fully agree with Mr. Henning Hyllested in that if it is illegal, it must also be taken care of. There can be no doubt about that. Compared to that, I'm pretty sure that's it, sir. Henning Hyllested refers to the question of a task force, which we have just included in the text of the adoption drawn up by the Socialists and the Alternative. There's a proposal for a task force. That is why I would also like to call on Mr Seligman to do so. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten to vote for the adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152403	The problem is that, in our opinion, the Social Democrats and the Alternative proposals for adoption still link up the new economy, the shared economy, which the rapporteur just said he did not think Uber represented, with a task force. After all, we consider it to be social dumping, and what is the benefit of our proposal for adoption is that it addresses the problem posed by Uber, namely illegal taxi traffic and social dumping. That's what we're kind of concentrating on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152442	In our text of adoption, we have also wanted to set out a direction in which we politically wish to go. And it's not just about Uber; it's about the whole way we handle new technologies, and in this case how we deal with the new legislation. We believe that there will be some new opportunities that we must already take a position on, and that will have to be done in cooperation with all the players involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152509	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there are no more brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152520	In the Radical Left, we want a new, modern taxi law that allows new companies to enter the market for the benefit of innovation, for the benefit of consumers and for the benefit of society. In fact, the taxi law we have forbids the creation of new companies, however strange it may seem. You can't actually drive a taxi in company form at all. It has to be one man, one car, one permit. This is a bit like saying: Congratulations on getting a carpenter's letter, but just don't do a carpenter's business, for those who are already there must be allowed to be the only ones who are there. We think that's weird. It is also the case that a number of different permits are currently being used. For example: you can have a car that gets permission to drive patients to the hospital, but then you can't use that car Saturday night to drive people to and from the city because it's another permit. The SR government proposed, on the basis of a committee work in which everyone in the industry was involved, to create a new taxi law which made it possible to operate a taxi in company form and which also made one permit, a universal permit, which could then be granted to drive a taxi or drive children to school or patients in hospital. At that time, we could not gather 90 seats behind it, and the main reason why we are today helping to put forward a proposal for adoption with the three bourgeois parties is that we have been opened up, unlike two years ago, to create a new taxi law. We think that is needed. In such a new taxi law there must of course be that a new company with some extra cars, or whatever you want to put into the market, must have a permit. And the challenge with Uber, which we are discussing today, is that they do not have any permission to drive, as it is right now, and of course you must have that. The challenge today is that you cannot obtain a permit, because you have no right to do so. I think you should have that. And then, of course, there must be such a permit that there must be insurance, that the person must have a driving licence, that the car is not falling apart, and you can include environmental requirements, health and safety requirements and all kinds of requirements, just as we do in relation to all other industries. But the basic thing about not being allowed to set up as a taxi company is that we think we are wrong and we want to change that. And I think that is the basic challenge in this debate, that is to say that we cannot set up a new taxi company and thus create any competition for any new thinking on the market. After all, this debate is likely to end in a number of proposals for adoption, as it is so technically called, for which there is not really a majority. But we hope that at some point we can agree on a new taxi law whereby Uber and other new companies can be regulated so that they can become part of society rather than the opposite. We hope that this can end at some point in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152836	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152840	I am once again surprised that there is a rapporteur who is going to take the floor and start by saying that we must now also discuss a new taxi legislation. Where in this query text is it that Enhedslisten has expressed himself so unclearly? All I think is wrong with that text is the mention of the word taxi in it. Because what's going on has nothing to do with taxi duty. So again, I think that Mr. Andreas Steenberg, like many others, is completely out of the question. At the same time, however, it is said that there must be orderly conditions and that then it must be regulated through the legislation, and not by the police starting to do their job and having some of these illegal practices stopped going on out there. Is Mr. Andreas Steenberg does not agree with me that what Uber is doing at the moment is contrary to applicable tax legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329152932	I think it is, but they have not yet been convicted of it, and they may be in 1-2 weeks. I think the debate here with Mr. Kim Christiansen is a little weird, because it is not here in the Folketing that we decide whether to break the law. It goes through the police, and it's settled by the courts. Nor do I agree that the police are not doing their job. I think that might be an equally gross accusation to make. Well enough, we've got a different government with Mr. Knox. Søren Pind as Minister of Justice, but to start saying that the police have stopped doing their job, I think maybe it's just getting too drunk. Some cases have been raised, among others. Because the police have filed charges. So something happens in the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153015	I'm sorry if I've ever wondered if the police are doing their job. I think they do, of course. I should have said, if they could do their job. That's where the problem is. It has been said from the highest point of view: now you must not issue a fine, because we must first see if this holds up in the courts. Well, then I'll have to ask sir. Andreas Steenberg, if he agrees with the Minister of Justice that this necessarily requires judicial review. As far as passenger transport is concerned, it is not unclear that it is contrary to the taxi law when you do not have a camera in your car, when you do not have a taximeter, when you do not have a seat sensor or even have a driver's licence for taxi or even a driver's licence for commercial passenger transport. What is it that is unclear in relation to the law and that we must have the court tried? I just need to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153107	I mean, now I'm just a high school teacher and not a lawyer, and certainly not a specialist lawyer, and when the Minister of Justice, whatever party he comes from, says that there is a need for judicial review, I assume it is because the best lawyers in the kingdom have recommended that that is how it must be. The challenge with the current taxi law is that it was made before there was something called Internet, and you could make such an app as Uber is, where people can be offered driving in a private car. And I think that's what the Minister of Justice is right about being tried by a court of law. I'm absolutely sure the Justice Department will drill out before they send the Justice Minister down here with that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153147	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153149	Sir. Andreas Steenberg said that it was not quite the case to get permission, and it is true that, for example, it is true that it was not possible to get permission. cannot form companies under the present taxi law. But the Uber drivers, the Uber truckers, or whatever they are, can at any time apply for permission to operate taxi services, just as anyone else can. All they have to do is apply for the licence, and they have to meet the many requirements in order to be able to drive a taxi, because in this country we want to have a good supply of taxis, but it is also true that the product used by customers is a safe product for customers, but also for both drivers and hauliers, in all possible ways. So that is quite right when Mr. Kim Christiansen asks: What does this really have to do with new technology or taxi legislation? There is a taxi law that needs to be complied with because we have decided in this country that we want a very, very safe product in all possible ways. And what prevents Uber drivers from seeking permission?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153259	Of course, nothing does, but if you meet the requirements to obtain a permit, it is not certain that you will get it. Because the public has decided how many permits there must be. And if you get a permit, you have to sign up for what is called an order office, and it is a certain order office, for example. Taxi Nord, Herning Taxi, or whatever it's called. You can't sign up for Uber or another new company. You have to sign up for the ordering office, i.e.. the undertaking which is already there. And that's what I'd like to do about it. I would also like a permit to be granted if we meet the requirements we are now making. It must be one free to form a new company. Of course, we must meet the requirements for authorisation. However, the refusal to grant a licence, because public opinion has decided that there must be no more taxis, seems to me to be a bad idea, and I do not think that is a good thing for consumers either. That's one of the reasons why it can sometimes be difficult to get a taxi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153358	These are, in fact, some of the things that are in the process of being rolled back where liberalisation has taken place. For the vast majority of places were found in the case of Sweden, London, and in many other places there were very, very many cars on the street. And that was of no benefit to anyone, not even to consumers, but certainly not to hauliers and drivers who could see their business destroyed. That cannot be our task either with the possible new taxi legislation. But Uber could, of course, apply for permission as a commission office and that way around linking a number of hauliers and then, moreover, meet the requirements and enter into agreements with the drivers' union etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153444	With the present taxi law, you can't just set up an order office. It is, of course, publicly regulated if you can. So there is no free access to the market, and I think that is a problem. And that's what the SR government's bill was about, and as this committee, which both the trade unions and the established industry were involved in, suggested: shouldn't we open it up a little so that we could have some more competition, a better service and everything else? You actually agreed on that. Unfortunately, we could not find 90 mandates at that time, but we may be. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153522	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153525	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that Uber is a shared economy. That is one question. I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is opposed to the existence of order offices, because that is how it might be perceived. And my last question is whether the rapporteur thinks that we should create a new taxi law where we do not have funds and where, at least in my optics, it will be somewhat more difficult for us who live all the way out there, where the crows turn, to get a cart.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153557	That was a lot of questions. I'll see how many I can reach. No, I do not think it is a shared economy in the real sense of the word. That's how you drive to make money. Then there is still a little bit of a split economy about it, because it is people's private cars that they share. But it is clear that it is in order to make money, and thus it is a profession that is being pursued, not charity or anything else. That is why we also come under the law that we have, I believe. As far as rural areas are concerned, I believe that, whatever we do, this will be a challenge, because people buy their own car and, unfortunately, there is no demand for taxis when you go to the countryside. There I think we should create a taxi law that opens up that you can do just like the municipality of Aalborg, where you have chosen to say that driving a taxi throughout the municipality costs a little more in starting tariff, but on the other hand a surcharge is given to drive out of the municipality. Aalborg is of course both a large city, but also a rather large rural municipality, so a balance has been found. This could possibly be extended to the whole of North Jutland and set up a system there. I think that would be a good idea. And then I think it is a good idea that there are order offices, but I also think it must be possible to create some new order offices and thus create some competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153715	I have to start by saying that I am very, very pleased that the rapporteur is relatively clear in saying that Uber is not a shared economy and that the legislation in force must be complied with. I think that is essential. So when I ask about this thing with order offices and so on, it is because the whole taxi legislation is based on the fact that there must also be a taxi service out there where the crows turn. That's not where Uber's figuring right now, I just want to say hurry up. Then you can have enough new technology and innovation, and what else we call, all that bullshit. But that is not where they are, and it is because they cannot make money there. And then I really don't care how many private cars people have been saying that just as a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153755	It is true that Uber is primarily a capital phenomenon. There is no doubt about that, and so can the press and so on. That is precisely why it is not Uber who is causing the problem in rural areas. It is simply demand that is not there. It is a good thing that a new law could open it up, because it might be that some people had some cars, for example. a bus company which they could provide. I have visited a company in the Land of Herning, which has a car that is approved to drive children to school, but they are not allowed to put it in on Saturday night when cars are needed. I think that's weird, and there could be a new way to drive this thing open to it. So I think it would be easy to create a new taxi law which could also give some more opportunities to rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153842	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153845	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that the rapporteur believes it is important for a court to clarify its legality. So I am thinking: what is the rapporteur's real concern with regard to legality? Does the rapporteur have any doubts as to whether Uber is in conformity with Danish legislation? Or is it really EU legislation that the rapporteur is thinking of? Is that what the rapporteur is really trying to say is that we do not want to do anything in Denmark which means that we will subsequently have a great judgment from the European Union? Is that what worries the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153928	What worries me is if we in the Folketing begin to move away from the fundamental principles of the rule of law. You have to be innocent until proven guilty. It must also be the courts that decide whether you have broken the law, and not what I think, feel or think, or what a majority in here believes, feels or thinks. It must be the courts that look at the law that exists and look at what has been going on in society and then make a decision. That's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329153954	I think it is relatively obvious that every other form of lawbreaking would not accept that it takes so long. You wouldn't say, "Well, we're gonna take some tests on rape, and then we're gonna let it go for a year or two." I guess you wouldn't. Then there would be query debates in this Parliament every single day. So that's hardly why it takes so long. That is why I would like to ask again: is what really worries the Radical Left that intervening with Danish legislation is that with existing Danish legislation on the ground of the law • is against Uber being at odds with EU legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154033	I think we need to make it clear that there is, after all, little difference between rape and driving with Uber. No, that's not what we're worried about. I've also been wondering why it's taken so long to run these cases. What I have been thinking, and it just stands at my personal expense, is that the law we have is before the time of the Internet and so old that it is obviously difficult to find out whether to define Uber as an employer or as what they claim to be a technology platform. That must be the discussion that is taking place. But it is pending before the courts, and they need to know more about it. The Minister of Justice can answer the law issue better than I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154115	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There were no further brief comments in this case. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154130	One day it is Uber, the next it is Ryanair, and every weekend we can see underpaid Eastern European drivers staying in their trucks every weekend. The order, the regulated, yes, the civilised labour market is under pressure from many sides. Stone by stone removes the foundations of the welfare society: a good labour market. Of course, Uber drivers can drive cheaper. There are no requirements for drivers' training, no requirements for the financial security of hauliers, no requirements for the design of cars, and the tax payment is not certain. Both the tax payments made by the individual driver and by the company itself seem at best unclear. And with such an unfair competition, it is no wonder that Uber can conquer a market. It is scam and scam to try to camouflage social dumping under a new clever concept of shared economy. And then there's even such a smart little app. Yeah, I guess you have to polish your glasses if you can't see through that stunt. Uber will place himself on top of the ruins of a taxi industry where hardworking people can look forward to being kicked out of the cars. It's not like I can't understand why the human being would want to save a 50, but how do we feel about pirate taxis, by the way? I guess we always tell the kids not to take an unnecessary risk when they go home from a trip to town. Security is worth a lot more than a 50. Pirattaxas are bad for both consumers and society. What the individual citizen may be able to save today, society will pay back when jobs with orderly conditions disappear. It is with Uber, a little like it is with weeds in the spring when it grows up in the gardens: You have to be over it immediately, otherwise it will spread. And Uber has plans to spread to other cities. I can imagine that some would prefer to spray for weeds I prefer to rip it up myself with mess before it gets too well. And this has also been discovered elsewhere in the world where Uber is out in a real storm of conflict. The company has messed up with authorities in 71 countries, states and cities. Until now, there are 41 driving bans, 12 large fines and 18 court cases. So welcome to Uber, welcome to Ryanair, welcome to underpaid East drivers, welcome to parallel economy, black money and social dumping, welcome to the insecurity of the workers and to the uncertainty of the serious companies. I prefer a welfare society with security and orderly conditions and respect for hard-working people, including in the transport industry. The perspective must go further than the narrow-minded focus on the individual's purse right now. In the long term, the negative consequences for society as a whole are incalculable. Uber is another step on the road to a liberalist wild west society, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen loves but has dramatic consequences for ordinary people and serious companies who want to play with the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154553	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since no one has asked for brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154607	Thank you. It's quite a speech to come after, but I'll do my best. I am standing here on behalf of Rasmus Jarlov, our transport rapporteur, but who is unable to be here today. He has written a speech that I will loyally read to you. We Conservatives welcome Uber in Denmark. We think innovation is good and if someone can transport people cheaper than it is being done today, it is gratifying. That is why we are also looking forward to the forthcoming legislative work to review taxi legislation. For us, the purpose of this is to ensure that there is room for Uber on the Danish market for the benefit of consumers, Danish traffic and Denmark's prosperity. It is a welcome opportunity to modernise an outdated taxi system. We are very critical of the current taxi monopoly. In general, we do not like monopolies but are in favour of a free market economy. The current system, where there is a ceiling on the number of taxis, is a piecemeal economical mess. Taxis and taxi companies may be required, but there should not be a ceiling on how many people are allowed to operate a profession. It is the planned economy and the monopoly protection of the worst drawer. Having said that, we actually understand some of the dissatisfaction in the taxi business with Uber's entrance to the market. For although the taxis have monopoly protection and also have a number of other advantages in the legislation, they are also subject to requirements that take the opposite direction and that make it more expensive to operate taxi services. They must serve the outlying areas, they must not say no to riding, and hauliers must not make a profit in their business. Then, when an actor comes who is not subject to these expensive demands, we can understand that it is perceived as competition on unequal terms. The forthcoming revision of taxi legislation must therefore ensure fair and equal competition. We are not going to be in favour of making the same demands on Uber as we are on the taxis today, because then it is no longer Uber. Then their business model can't work and hang together. However, we will be in favour of making equally strict demands on the various players on the market, not on the same requirements, but on equally strict requirements. It goes without saying, of course, that Uber has to pay taxes. Anything else is an unacceptable position. We imagine that some of the demands for taxis can be relaxed, the taxi monopoly abolished and legislation introduced specifically for services such as Uber. We look forward to the forthcoming work on making this legislation and hope that we will finish this year, as we are well aware that there is currently a very great frustration in the taxi industry that we must address.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154857	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154910	Then light came in the light, thank you for that. I would just like to ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard whether the Conservatives do not believe that what is going on, i.e. Uber's driving, is contrary to the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154922	As a parliamentary politician, I actually believe that it is not for me to decide this sort of thing. Our courts, on the other hand, must do so. After all, a case has been brought, and we will soon have the tension triggered, so I would really like to leave that to the courts in respect of the division of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329154938	That means that when there are some things in taxi law, you do not necessarily have to live up to it, then you have to try things out in court. It's a whole new model to follow. You just have to stop respecting the law, then you can get it tested in a court of law and see if it can be changed. Then Mrs Mette Abildgaard also mentions that there must be equal, but not necessarily equal, demands, because Uber's business model cannot bear that. I would then like to say something that I cannot say in the Chamber, so I would just like to say: what is it to me? We have legislation. Are we now going to take into account whether there is room for their business model?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155021	Thank you to the questioner. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155023	Thank you. Of course, the legislation in force in Denmark must be followed. It is by no means open to discussion, and if it is decided on 26 April, or when there is a judgment, that you do not do it today, then of course you have to comply with it. There is absolutely no discussion about this. With regard to the fact that it should not necessarily be the same requirements, but equally tough requirements, I would say that I am thinking, for example, of technology making you per. automatically pays your Uber with a credit card, because you cannot pay cash. It gives some other options, for example, that you don't have this seat censor and stuff in there. So it simply does not make sense to make the same demands, because technology makes it unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155103	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155106	But it is a bit like that in the same ball street, because if you do not make the same demands on the companies that want to operate taxi services, i.e. commercial passenger transport, then in my optics it becomes quite incalculable what is going to be the rules. It may well be that there is some technology inside, but there must basically be the same requirements for those who want to carry out commercial passenger transport or drive a taxi. Otherwise, the consumer is completely lost in this system, i.e. if you do not know what is applicable when you subscribe to or drive a taxi company, which you have to assume complies with the law. And that is basically what the consumer has to stick to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155154	Now I came before with a concrete example of a case where it does not necessarily make sense to make exactly the same demand because of the technology that is quite simple. But I would also like to take an example such as Airbnb and hotels. Does it make sense to make exactly the same requirements for Airbnb and for hotels? This is another example of a service that has come to Denmark and is gaining more and more ground. No, I don't think it makes sense to make exactly the same requirement, because it's two different products you buy. However, it may make sense to regulate both units differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155227	I understand that the Conservative People's Party, like other bourgeois parties, wants some form of deregulation to take place. You can call it a lot of things, but the deregulation that you get into, whether it's called Uber or Airbnb, naturally puts pressure on the professional industry that already exists. And that pressure is, of course, put first and foremost on the safety requirements of the labour employed. In other words, it is a downward spiral in terms of social dumping or black economy, or whatever you call it. It's gonna be a very unhealthy and unfair competition you get into.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155310	I also said in the rapporteur's speech that we are prepared to look at some of the demands today on the taxi industry, in other words, to see whether they could be different and whether they have become too restrictive. It has to be said that Parliament has adopted more and more regulations in this area, probably in order to protect consumers. But we now also see that there is a very large proportion of consumers who are willing to use a service such as Uber, which is subject to some other conditions, and I think consumers are, in fact, well informed about this. So I also think that it is about allowing consumers to make choices, and sometimes we politicians have a tendency to wrap people in bubble plastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155348	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last person who has asked for the floor in this debate so far is the rapporteur for the questions put by the honourable Member. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155421	So far, I would like to thank you for the debate we have had. We have come a long way, and perhaps we have actually moved beyond the scope of the question. But well, that probably couldn't be avoided, because there are a lot of things that are rumbled around at the moment around the entire taxi industry. It is clear that the debate here has been the expression of the many, many different views that exist, of a company or a concept such as Uber. Having heard the debate, I have now become quite convinced that by far, by far, the vast majority believe that what is happening when we talk about Uber is illegal taxi business and that it is some form of social dumping or pressure on the demands that must make it a safe and professional product to conduct taxi business. I also think it is clear from the debate that, with a few exceptions, most people in this House agree that Uber has nothing to do with the shared economy. I think it is gratifying that there is such a broad consensus in this regard that they are moving very much on the edge, and several of us think that they are clearly beyond the edge, that they are out in purely illegal things and that what is going on is commercial passenger transport. If you are in doubt about it, you can see that the action group of taxi drivers in Denmark, which has arisen as a result of the frustration between drivers and hauliers in the taxi industry, has actually gone under cover, and in the specialist magazine Driver, published by 3F Copenhagen Drivers, you can see that they have gone under cover and have clearly revealed it. They have been at such a recruitment meeting and one of the people has acted as a driver from Uber, and there is no doubt that what is going on is professional passenger transport. You move people from A to B, you get called in like any other taxi and move people from A to B. There are no relations between the driver and the customer, and you drive for a fee. So what is going on is professional passenger transport, and that was the reason for our proposal for adoption and for our call for this question debate. Because we simply believe that we need to make a huge and intensified effort to combat the evil that Uber is. It is also because Uber, by looking up to call himself a shared economy in our opinion, decorates himself with borrowed feathers and destroys something that we actually think may be a good idea, thus destroying the image of the shared economy. Because if the shared economy is social dumping, where legislation and demands are ignored, then that is not a good idea. In our opinion, this is not the content of the shared economy, if I may say so, but it is very much the content of Uber. I was pleased with the ministers' initial presentation. They gave a very sober review of what happened. And I am also pleased that, after all, the Minister for Justice is aware that this has probably taken quite a long time, and that is what has helped to create the frustrations that have arisen among drivers and hauliers and taxi companies in general. And it's not very healthy to have people walking around who really feel powerless. That is what they are doing at the moment, where they can see that their earnings are disappearing, the bread is being taken out of their mouths. Every weekend they lose between 2,000 and 4,000 kroner, and it's hard to witness or just put up with. After all, when you're an employee or a trucker or whatever you are, you have a family to support. For example: It must be worthwhile to work at all levels, and therefore it is important to get rid of the frustration that is spreading more and more, and to get rid of the phenomenon called Uber, which also gradually takes on a scale that makes special efforts necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155859	As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155917	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329155931	Thank you. Equality does not come on its own. We are a long way from equality in Denmark, but there are still major challenges. New victories and progress therefore require action. Equality is often highlighted as a fundamental Danish value, which we all share, but unfortunately not everywhere. There is a need to strengthen the fight for gender equality and emancipation for all young people in Denmark, including young people with ethnic minority backgrounds. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the government's focus on this area, but we also want to see action. We have among other things. The Committee on Youth, Culture, Education, the Media and Sport is proposing that advice and offers should be strengthened here and now for young people who are subjected to social control and, in the most extreme cases, to abuse and repression. They need all the support we as a society can give. Just as we must never be blind to the lack of equality that exists in certain ethnic settings, we must not forget the fundamental challenges of equality that are particularly important in the labour market, and that is, in particular, the pay gap between men and women and the great inequality in pension savings and discrimination. Those things are still real in today's Denmark. We need a fight with the gender-based labour market and educational choices, because this means that people are still talking about men's and women's occupations, and in the years to come Denmark will need many more skilled skilled workers. This means that we need more female craftsmen and that we need more male educators and SOSUs. Lack of equal pay is perhaps one of the greatest challenges facing us in terms of equality. A pay gap of 17%. between men and women is not good enough, and that means that we must take responsibility from the political side. So an important tool to get rid of this pay gap is greater transparency about wage statistics in the workplace. Unfortunately, the government's roll-back of gender-based pay statistics for small businesses means that hundreds of thousands of employees in Denmark are no longer covered. This is a major setback in an area where we need progress. Inequality in pay has been constant over the past many years, and instead of simply rolling back sensible legislation, we call on the government to take the problem more seriously and launch new positive initiatives. That there is not full equality in the Danish labour market is seen both on the floor of the labour market and in the boardrooms. The Social Democratic Party would like to welcome the Minister's and the government's support for the Danish model for more women in management. We are pleased that the Left has changed course. But we must also recognise that we are far from achieving this. Although the legislation that has been put into effect benefits businesses, when there is also equality at the top, we must, on the political side, keep a close eye on this area and, of course, we must ensure that positive developments continue. Working life and family life are also closely linked, and a strong welfare society has made Denmark one of the world's best countries to start a family. The possibility of going on maternity leave is absolutely central, but it is also an area where, unfortunately, equality is lagging behind. When men take only a very small part of parental leave or perhaps none at all, it is important for their relationship with their children, just as in the main picture it puts women at a disadvantage in the labour market. That is why the Social Democratic Party shares the Government's ambition that men should take a greater share of parental leave. But one thing is ambition, another is action. This is precisely where the government is acting contrary to its own objectives. This was done, among other things, when it was decided to roll back the maternity allowance for self-employed workers. The roll-back of this legislation means that 200,000 self-employed people no longer have the same maternity opportunities as the rest of the workforce. It is a step in the wrong direction if we want to ensure more equality in the labour market, just as it is the wrong way if we want to see more women entrepreneurs. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, we would like to urge the government to take this challenge more seriously and as soon as possible call the parties of the Danish Parliament for negotiations on how to ensure proper maternity conditions for self-employed people, for which the majority of the Danish Parliament, the opposition and the Danish People's Party, have clearly expressed their desire. Social democracy wants to promote equality between fathers and mothers, and that is why we also want to see an end to the procedures in the public sector where parents are not equal. There are, unfortunately, numerous examples of the fact that only the mother receives public mail concerning the child. Of course, both the father and the mother must have information on equal terms when it comes to their common children. Therefore, we would also like to sign for the government to highlight digital mail to both parents as a good example of how to strengthen equality between parents. That is the path we must continue along. The next step is the payment of the children's check, as today per year. automatic payment to the mother. This testifies to a somewhat outdated and misconception that the mother still disappears like that. automatic is the primary provider and the primary caregiver of the child. We're gonna have to do this automatic. There must be no more "A" and "B" parents in Denmark, and the public must therefore take the lead. That is why we also welcome the fact that the government will now investigate the area and we will be even more pleased if it is followed by action. There is much we can do to increase equality in Denmark, but unfortunately political decisions are also being taken that are moving in the wrong direction. The social democracy was opposed when the government, together with the Danish People's Party, adopted its new cash aid ceiling. We were against it because we saw it as an expression of an unfair and biased policy, because it also had very clear effects on equality. In addition to the fact that it hits vulnerable people hard, it also hits equality. Seven out of ten who want to feel this new cash-aid ceiling, so feel it, so it hurts... are women. The group of single parents... it's especially single mothers who are in this group... will lose an average of DKK 8,000. more a year than other cash benefits recipients. And who will suffer? Unfortunately, it will be the children. With the ceiling on cash benefits, the government weakens equality in Denmark and at the same time makes everyday life significantly harder for a group of single parents who are already in a difficult situation. We in the Social Democratic Party are ready to shoulder our share of responsibility, and we would also very much like to help the government on its way. We believe that the government needs this in this area, which is why I would just like to remind the government in the end that equality does not come naturally. It is not done with words and analyses alone. So let us get on with the new steps and make the visions a reality for both men and women, because the government certainly has us ready to take our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160643	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160649	Thank you to the rapporteur, who has come a long way. It is also a large and wide area. There was something that the rapporteur did not talk about very much. After all, the rapporteur has advocated a ban on prostitution in the past and has also advocated earmarked maternity leave for men and quotas for women on board boards. What is the position of the Socialists today? Are the Socialists still working away for a ban on prostitution and for earmarked maternity leave for men and for quotas on board boards?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160725	I have not been, nor am I aware, that any other Social Democrats should have advocated a ban on prostitution or that it should be illegal to be a prostitute. On the contrary, it has been a social democratic desire and my ambition to protect prostitutes. So the discussion that has taken place and what was discussed during the last reign of the Social Democrats was whether it would be illegal to buy a prostitute. For there is therefore a fairly large difference between the two things, i.e. whether you want to criminalise the weak party, i.e. the prostitute, or you want to criminalise the strong party, i.e. the one who buys another person. So there is a marked difference and nothing has changed in this respect. In relation to earmarked maternity leave, that's a lot of things I have to answer here... it's a relevant discussion. Social democracy and the then government came to the conclusion that there were other ways of achieving this, and we are, in fact, open to all sorts of initiatives, too, some of those presented by the government in terms of how we can ensure better conditions for fathers to take leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160829	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160833	Thank you for the rapporteur's reply. So I just have to understand it correctly: do the Socialists intend to table a motion for a resolution in which they want to make it illegal to buy prostitutes? After all, we have seen that there has been an increase, as stated in the policy yesterday, also in relation to trafficking in human beings. So I would like to know whether this is something on which the Socialists intend to table a resolution in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160903	No, we have no plans to table resolutions on this matter. I still have a few seconds to reply to what I did not get the answer to following the first question by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There were so many things, so I didn't reach them all, and that's about board quotas. As I mentioned in my speech, the Social Democracy and the then government came to the conclusion that the Danish model for more women in management was the right way to go, and we are so pleased that the current government and the Left have joined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160937	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329160943	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a speech with a number of exciting elements. I am sure that we can work with the Socialists on the elements that relate to how, for example, we can work with them. pay children's money, how we send out information to new parents, etc. I do not think that the rapporteur's speech did mention any of the facts that have been revealed in the media, for example. on the fact that imams call on young women not to seek participation in the labour market and may call on them to choose only a spouse on the basis of religion and ethnicity. Is that something that impresses the rapporteur? And does the rapporteur impress that this seems to have been going on for a long time and that, therefore, perhaps we have a more collective responsibility across the parties to find solutions? So find some things that can solve some of these major equality problems that have been caused by the immigration currently in Denmark and the parallel societies that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161047	I can answer that very precisely: yes, it is something that concerns us. That is why I tried to use the first part of my rapporteur's speech here to address precisely the problem of our having a responsibility to strengthen equality and free young people, including young people in certain ethnic environments, where we have seen examples of being very stuck in some not very democratic or particularly equal environments. So there we have a huge responsibility, and I even think that in my rapporteur's speech I signed off on the fact that the government has that focus, and I am happy to do so again. In any case, the Socialists are prepared to lend a hand. We are also concerned with what was first mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, namely the small steps. In other words, there are both large and small things that can be done, and we are therefore prepared to go constructively into that work. I myself have been trying to do this all the time I have been in opposition to try to look at where agreement can actually be achieved, rather taking small steps than not taking any steps. So we're ready for a little bit of everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161152	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161154	Thank you. It was not to shoot the rapporteur in the shoes either that the rapporteur had not dealt with it. I just thought we could take the dialogue one more step further. In the case that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has specific proposals on how to go further along this path, in other words in relation to those women from minorities who are marginalised through social control, etc. and so on, I am sure that I myself and the Minister and the other parties will be very interested to hear about it. So it's kind of just a receipt from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161219	Thank you, there's no more on the list unless there's an answer to that? Rasmus Horn Langhoff Yes, may I not, since we are still gathered here on this lovely day? ) Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161227	We've seen lots of suggestions about how to help. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there are some things that can be done now and here in order to strengthen the advice and offers for young people who are subject to social control. We can see that women from other ethnic backgrounds are over-represented in our shelters. It might also be an interesting thing to look at, i.e. how we can strengthen the efforts there and how we can ensure that our authorities are ready to handle this well enough at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161313	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329161324	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Gender Equality for the statement. I have looked forward to reading it and also to reading about initiatives in the field of equality. The equal opportunities of women and men to participate in things and unfold their potentials and talents is one of the cornerstones on which we must cherish and constantly build. Equality gives each individual the freedom to choose his own way of life and, above all, freedom from discrimination on grounds of sex. This also applies very much to minorities. We have probably all seen the broadcast • The mosques behind the veil, and that was, to put it mildly, not uplifting; on the contrary, it was deeply depressing. Some women were banned from working with men, and in my and the Danish People's Party's optics it is deeply, deeply ridiculous. This clearly shows that we have major challenges in this area, and we have that not only in Denmark but also worldwide. Many of us recently attended the United Nations Women's Conference, and it was terrible to hear about young girls and women who are subjected daily to forced marriage and circumcision. We have even recently had a case about girls who have been sent home to their own country and have been circumcised and then come back here to Denmark. We know that 37,000 marriages with girls under the age of 18 are concluded every day worldwide. And, of course, we are a small country, but thank God we are taking the lead with good examples of women having free choice and the right to their own body, and we must continue to do so. Women and men are independent individuals with their own right of self-determination, and so it must continue to be. There are challenges, including trafficking in human beings, which violate the individual's right to determine his own body and his own life. The bakers are cynical and they operate across national borders and not least make money selling women into prostitution, and we should not accept that in any way. The perpetrators must be prosecuted and the victims must be helped in their lives. I am sure there is broad agreement on that here in the Folketing. When we make action plans and allocate funds, we need to follow up on the efforts, which is why I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister when the mid-term review in this area will come. Stalking is devastating. Family violence and persecution are part of the lives of many people, and both men and women are affected. This can have serious consequences for the victim himself with consequences such as anxiety, social phobia, etc. Everyone has the right to a life free from violence and persecution. But we must not forget the men who are often portrayed as the strong sex who can cope with the world. We also need men's crisis centres, and we will continue to work for this in the Danish People's Party, where we have also been allocated funds in the movement pool for men in crisis. Here too, from the platform, there must be a call for the Minister to enter into negotiations with the parties to resolve this, including the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Because it is the case that today Article 109 of the Services Act states: "The municipal council must offer temporary residence in housing forms to women who have been subjected to violence, threats of violence or similar crisis in relation to family or social relationships. Women may be accompanied by children and they receive care and support during their stay. It would be appropriate, as has also been written about in several media, for there to be men in that paragraph too, of course. It also says in the statement: "It is also important to be aware that men can have a particular challenge in finding sufficient help and support to free themselves from violence. ▪ In the Danish People's Party, we want an increased focus on the lack of equality among ethnic minorities, including in connection with honour-related conflicts, which have been increasing. RED-Safehouse is a safe place for young people in serious honour-related conflicts, and they received 155 inquiries in 2010 and 242 inquiries in 2015. So it is not enough, for example, to produce teaching material on honour-related conflicts for primary school. Action must also be taken. We must take a deeper look at this problem. Everyone who lives in Denmark or comes to Denmark should know that in Denmark we have rules and laws that must be observed and that as an individual you have the right to choose and decide your own life and body. Girls and women are more subject to social control, as their sexual chastity is in many cases crucial to the family's honor. In the extreme, social control can lead to serious honour-related conflicts. Sexual minorities are also at risk. In relation to the debate we have also had on self-employed women, the Danish People's Party considers that it is necessary to find a scheme that benefits self-employed women and women entrepreneurs. We need to find a solution across the Ministry of Business and Growth, the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality. And that is why we call on the government to work for a scheme for the benefit of self-employed women and women entrepreneurs. And in the Danish People's Party, we are happy to cooperate across the board, among others. with the Socialists, who also consider it extremely important. The Minister is therefore asked to explain what initiatives the government will take in this area and whether the Minister will call the parties for discussions to find solutions. One area in which there are also major challenges is social media. It's easy to make hate pages and bullies and hang people out. Revenge porn has also become a known phenomenon, and it is a sad development. Finally, I would like to say that we also have a joint responsibility to promote equality, including among politicians, in public authorities, among the social partners and in companies, etc. The Danish People's Party is happy to enter into discussions with the Danish Parliament's parties on improvements in this area. Finally, I would like to add something that the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, namely that, in relation to the digital mail, we have some challenges that we must at least resolve. Now I always get a message in e-boks when my kids go to the dentist, but even though I have joint custody with my husband, he doesn't get word. I certainly think that there are some challenges in this area that we need to resolve. And, as the Socialist rapporteur said, there is also a deep concern in relation to precisely the crisis centres, where 45%. women were not born in Denmark. So there is enough work to do, and we are in the work clothes and are looking forward at least to a broad and good dialogue on the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162051	Thank you. I am going to be a little interested in this maternity fund for self-employed people, which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned. When the Dansk Folkeparti made the report contribution to L 88, where the Danish People's Party voted to allow the government to roll back this law, they spoke very clearly. But it was also seen that there was an expectation that there would be some other initiatives. I think it is quite clear that the government's initiatives do not come naturally. That is also what the Minister for Employment has said, both during the debate and later on in the questions we have asked. Is the Danish People's Party prepared to put action behind the words? Because it is the Danish People's Party that has the power in this situation. The whole red block is, after all, interested in something happening in this area. So will the Danish People's Party demand something from the government? The Danish People's Party has the power, so the question is whether the party is also prepared to put action behind the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162157	That was a wonderful question to which I would like to reply to the rapporteur. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we have called on the Minister both in our contribution to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, but also here from the platform today, to take the initiative in calling for wide-ranging discussions on finding solutions. And I have a clear expectation that the Minister is interested in doing so. If the Minister is not interested in calling for dialogue and discussions on this, then we must take it from there. But I have a very clear expectation that the Minister will be interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162231	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162235	But it may be that Mrs Karina Adsbøl has more faith in the government than I do. Because I think everything looks like the government doesn't intend to listen to that. We all attended the debate at the third reading of L 88, when the law was rolled back and it was quite clearly stated by the rapporteur of the Left, Mr L 88. Hans Andersen, and the Minister for Employment, said that there was no interest in convening any kind of negotiation. It's really just my modest claim and my expectation... and I sense it's also true of the Danish People's Party... that we're being called in for some negotiations on this. So what will the Danish People's Party do if it doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162321	That's very interesting. Now we have to wait and see if we are not called for some discussion and then find some good solutions. What will happen if that doesn't happen, we'll have to take it afterwards. It's such a slightly hypothetical question. We are interested in finding some good solutions in this area, and we are also interested in finding a broad, good solution with all the parliamentary parties. Because that is what we believe is the most important thing, even in relation to them. When we legislate from in here, broad agreements are good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162354	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162402	Thank you. After all, many of the decisions we take in all sorts of different committees and in different rapporteur areas are important for equality. One of the decisions that have just been taken and that the Danish People's Party has voted on, namely the cash aid reform, is actually adversely affected by gender equality. It particularly affects single parents, three out of four of whom are women. They're losing 20-25 percent. of their income, about DKr 3,000. a month. And violence-stricken women, who are a vulnerable group, may find it difficult to meet the requirements of the 225-hour rule. I know we are not discussing this resolution today, but I would still like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: what will the Danish People's Party do to correct the inequality that that resolution will actually create in terms of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162502	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would now like to say that I am standing here as rapporteur on equality and not as rapporteur on employment, which is the area in which it has been dealt with. And I'm not on the committee either. When we talk about equality, it concerns more legislation, you might say. It concerns tax legislation, it concerns social matters, and it concerns school and education. And the things that deal with several areas need to be discussed with the rapporteurs who have been wearing it in the Chamber. That is why I would like to refer the rapporteur to our employment rapporteur, who will certainly be able to give a much better answer than I can from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162544	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162547	I recognise that the issue of equality is a rather difficult one, because it extends precisely to other areas. But the Social Democrat rapporteur has just asked about this with the Barsel Foundation. This is also something that lies in the Ministry of Employment, and the Danish People's Party would like to convene some negotiations. Is it the case that if it turns out to be a battle page in terms of gender equality, then the equal opportunities rapporteur from the Danish People's Party will take the initiative to get a look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162621	Now it is the case that a law has just been passed which must then be implemented and implemented. And if there are major shortcomings, that is something you always take afterwards, also in relation to asking follow-up questions. I cannot offer any guarantees here on behalf of other rapporteurs; I can only offer guarantees from my own rapporteurship, which I stand for here today. And I am telling you about the statement we have received and what initiatives we would like to take in the Danish People's Party. As I said, we are willing to engage in a wide-ranging discussion and dialogue with all the parties of the Folketing in order to find solutions in the area of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162705	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162720	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is now the third member of the Danish People's Party's Parliamentary Group, who has guaranteed in public that there will be a new solution for the Barsel Foundation. First it was Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, then it was Mr. Bent Bøgsted on the first Easter day even, on the radio and then today the equal opportunities rapporteur. When I take it out here, it is because it has little to do with the labour market. In fact, it has something to do with equality between self-employed women and men who have their own businesses as jobs and who have great difficulty in achieving what others, if they are employees, have, namely, maternity leave. I would therefore like to stress to the rapporteur that this matter cannot be put away because it is labour market policy. It is also equality policy. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162816	Yeah, we all agree on that. I didn't say it wasn't. I have said that the area of equality often concerns several areas. That is why it may present some challenges in relation to the various ministries, but also in relation to the rapporteurs. We must, of course, talk across the board when it comes to equality, including when it comes to employment. And there, in a contribution to the report that we have made in the Committee on Employment, we have indicated that we want to find a solution for the self-employed in relation to the Barsel Fund. And we have also followed the debate with regard to independent hairdressers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162855	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162857	I would like to sign for that, and I would like to stress that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament in favour of creating a solution when the Barsel Fund disappeared. I think the Danish People's Party should take this into account in its assessments. We're all happy to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162919	I am incredibly pleased with the help of the Radicals, and I will take it further in relation to this. But let us now wait and see what the Minister says, because I am sure that the Minister would also like to find some good solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162933	Thank you. Then the word Carolina Magdalene Maiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329162940	Thank you. I am going to continue a little on maternity fund issues in relation to self-employed workers. Because it's actually a little urgent. After all, it is 1 April, that is to say on Friday, that the present system expires, and then these self-employed people are suddenly left without a maternity fund. So to be very specific, I would like to ask the rapporteur: how long will the rapporteur wait for an initiative from the government? Now the rapporteur has called on the government, but how long will the rapporteur wait for an initiative to be taken before any action can be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163021	Now there's also an opportunity to make some voluntary models in relation to this. I do not want to dwell on what the solution should be at all. If we are to look at the time perspective, I would say that I think it is really difficult to set the time when it should be. Because we know that it is 1 April that we have to submit motions for resolutions, so we have a time frame. So if I think realistically, it will only be in the next session that it can be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163053	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163056	Thank you. If it is a political agreement, then it does not depend on the deadline for a resolution. You could call on the government to call for negotiations before that. I wish I did. So let's imagine that nothing really comes from the government. Rasmus Horn Langhoff was a little critical of whether there were any initiatives coming from that wing. In that case, it might well be, and it would certainly be in the next session, that some parties thought: then we have to table a motion for a resolution on a new system. Would DF like to be part of this? I'd like to ask that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163131	As I have already said on the platform today, the Danish People's Party is willing to engage in a broad discussion across the parties, so I will certainly not rule that out at all. But I also think we should wait and see. The Minister will, of course, be speaking here today, and I am sure that she will also address the important issue. It'll be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163159	Thank you. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163207	I'm gonna stay on the same track, too. As you know, the Crafts Council has been working for decades to find a solution to this problem of maternity compensation. It was then removed with a snap with DF's votes, but the report says it is then 2 months ago that the Danish People's Party considers it necessary to find a scheme that benefits self-employed women and entrepreneurs. As I have said, it is two months ago now, so I would like to hear whether the rapporteur cannot reveal what a good solution is for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163250	It would be easy if I had a really good solution for how such a model should be screwed up. However, I believe that there are some who have greater expertise in this area and who can help with it. I don't want to stick to anything or to any fixed model. We were against it, and that was because we thought it was a compulsory model, even in relation to the small businesses, which were forced to pay for that maternity fund. But that is not to say that we do not have any challenges in this area. And I'll say it again. We would like to help find a solution to the problem. I can't settle for any particular solution. I do not know if the rapporteur himself can. But if so, I would like to hear an idea for a solution from the rapporteur himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163336	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163338	The solution, which was worked on by the Crafts Council for a very long time, cost 328 DKK. a year and were deductible. I am glad that the Danish People's Party is interested in this group of women. I myself was self-employed and had to close my business when I got pregnant. So I am delighted that the rapporteur also has the same view as we have, namely that something needs to be done about this. But I have to understand that the rapporteur does not have a concrete idea of what is reasonable and what could be a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163424	Now it is the case that if I am going to enter into any discussions or negotiations that might come, I am not negotiating here from Parliament's platform. I'll do that at a table, if that's what we're gonna do. So if I have any concrete solutions or anything I would like to see implemented, then of course I will be presenting them at the table. And when there will be some discussions at that time if they come, and I hope that will be the case, the rapporteur will also be aware of the proposals of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163454	Thank you. Then the word is "Mr. Kasper Rougs, Social Democracy. No, the Social Democrats. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163503	That's better. Thank you for that, President. I think it is really nice to hear that the rapporteur is the third DF who now agrees with himself that we must, of course, have a solution to a maternity fund. And I am actually very pleased somewhere that the rapporteur is so clear about the need for something to happen. But I still have to ask what DF accepts as time frame. It is also the case, as Mrs Pernille Schnoor said, that more than two months have passed now. Well, it ends with DF starting to look silly. How long can they wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163539	Well, I think the rapporteur is a little forgetting that it has been Easter and that many have been travelling for week 10, and there have been summits, and I do not know what. So I think that with the time perspective that does not quite last, I have to say that. But if that's what the Social Democrats want to do, go ahead. I can't lay down on any time frame. I have said something earlier about what might be a realistic offer, and I will still rely on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163606	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163608	Now the question is how long it takes to send an e-mail, you might say. Some people need one minute to do that. Others need 1 hour. And some people need hours. But I guess it doesn't really take much longer to send an email from the Ministry of Employment. But I'm just wondering why D.C. somewhere is being subdued here. I mean, D.C.'s a little huggering. You have promised that a solution must now be found, but nothing really happens. Can DF really in the long run accept it? Is it next 2 months, or is it 6 months, or is it 2 years we have to wait for it? Well, how long can DF last for this without them really starting to look silly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163651	I don't know who looks most silly here today. But I have said before that I cannot set a time frame. After all, I am not the one calling for discussions or meetings. I can't set a specific time frame for when this is going through. Well, if I could, I just thought I was really good, but I can't. It's just a reality: I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163715	Thank you. Then the word is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163722	Thank you. I am also concerned about a maternity fund for self-employed people, because it is just so important that everyone on the labour market is given maternity leave. What I would like to ask is something that we have heard about today, namely that it has been established that it is more than two months since the report's contribution by the Danish People's Party said that it is necessary to find a system that benefits self-employed women and entrepreneurs. It was also the case during the discussion of L 88, that is to say for the more than two months ago, that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that, in this matter, it would first of all be desirable to urge the government to take the initiative. And today we hear again that it is being asked for the government to call for negotiations. I wonder whether something has happened on the part of the Danish People's Party during this interim period, or whether it is only down here in the Chamber that we have heard something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163831	Now I am not going down here in Parliament to comment on what I have to discuss with the Minister. I believe that this must be a dialogue between the Minister and me, and this is not really a matter for the Socialists. And then I just want to say that no one knows what has been sent by e-mails. From the perspective of time, I would like to say what I said earlier in the Chamber, namely that there have been a number of things that have done that Members of Parliament have not been in this Chamber. You've been in other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163906	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163909	Well, let me ask you a little about the future, because how much time do you have in the Danish People's Party? I think we can all agree that this is not just about the parents who are self-employed, but also about the children who do not choose their parents themselves and who want to have some good time with their parents. Now it is 1 April that we have the deadline, but what is the wish of the Danish People's Party to accept? Well, how much time do you have? Is it until the summer vacation, is it only in the next session, is it before Christmas, or do you have infinite amounts of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329163952	This is going to be a bit of a repetition of what I said earlier. I can't put a time perspective on it. After all, I do not have the authority to do what others do or when others call for dialogue or to call for dialogue. It would be a good thing if you had such powers, but I do not have such superpowers, so I am master of when a bill might come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164017	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164024	Thank you. I think it is very interesting to sit in this Chamber and listen to what the rapporteur says. In any case, I have listened to what is being asked or spoken about, either the rapporteur cannot answer it or will not reply to it, or the rapporteur believes that this is not something to which the rapporteur should reply. If the rapporteur does not want to deal with the fact that, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. The ceiling on cash benefits is very distorted in relation to men and women, and since the rapporteur does not want to deal with when a maternity fund could get under way, what will the Danish People's Party in general do in relation to equality? It's just to take two examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164111	I am sorry if the questioner has not heard my speech here from the platform today. I do not have enough time to read it again, but there are actually some concrete things that we in the Danish People's Party want us to find solutions to here in Parliament. Some of the desires we have • something that we need to find solutions to • are desires that the Social Democratic Party also has. This is among other things. in relation to digital mail, but also an increased focus on trafficking in human beings, and it is also in relation to crisis centres and equality between men and women with regard to women's crisis centres and men's crisis centres. So there are, in fact, a number of things that the Danish People's Party would like to continue working on. This is also true in terms of strengthening efforts towards minorities, where women often have some challenges in terms of social control from their family members, etc. I have said that here from the platform today, but I have no doubt as to whether the questioner was present. But now I have said some of the things again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164214	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164216	I was not here at the time, but I have heard the dialogue that was here. It is very good that the Danish People's Party has an interest in solving the issues together with other parties, including the Social Democratic Party. We are also passionate about the points raised by the rapporteur here. But there are still things that have not been resolved. What I think is so important to talk about here is how the Danish People's Party feels about it. I mentioned two things about the ceiling on cash benefits. The Danish People's Party will certainly not touch that at all. But then there's the Barsel Foundation. After all, I know the Minister for Employment via the Employment Committee and he is no longer away than he is able to talk to if you grab him. The Minister is also positive about a dialogue, so I can then call on the rapporteur to take up the Minister and ask when we can get started. It's not harder than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164307	After all, the questioner does not know what the rapporteur has done and, as I said earlier, what has been of dialogue between the Minister and myself or anyone else is not something I want to spread in this Chamber to satisfy the Socialist question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164323	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164337	Thank you for the floor. After all, it is a pleasure to be back in this Chamber and I would like to say to the rapporteurs who have spoken that I am very much looking forward to cooperation. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Gender Equality for his statement. I do not think it will be a surprise to those who have spoken that I agree with most of what is stated in the report in principle and in terms of attitudes. As usual, I have formulated a very long speech which I actually intended to stand here and read, but I think I will start with the conclusion. When you think of the gender equality agenda that has been debated over the last four years, there is a difference that is very clear to me. And the difference is that the Left's equality project is not about talking about bans, quotas and coercion, whether it is about maternity or other things. It's about freedom. It's about free access. It's about what kind of person you are, what sex you have, what sexuality you profess and how you're born, you have to have the same opportunities to train, interact socially and to be human like everyone else. That is, in fact, the most important thing at all. We want a diverse society where there is room to be who you are. And we share that wish with many of the parties of the Folketing, if not all. In last year's report, the Left missed a focus on promoting equality in the ethnic environments that exist when refugees and immigrants come to this country. The documentary we have seen from the mosques only makes this question even more relevant. That is why I was also pleased to hear that several of the rapporteurs who have been on it so far have mentioned it, and I look forward to finding a common basis together with, among others, one of them. our Socialist colleagues and perhaps together with colleagues from other parties, because equality is a common objective. Although there are some ideological differences between us, there are very many areas in which we agree. That is why it is also a joint responsibility which the Left is looking forward to taking along with the parties that exist in the Folketing. It is also no secret that, after many years of struggle, we in Denmark have secured a number of the freedoms that other parts of the world envy us. Nevertheless, we often find that those freedoms are being pressured and undermined. In fact, this is also happening in the parallel societies, which unfortunately exist in some places in Denmark. That is why I find that one of the biggest challenges is to ensure equality for everyone and also here in Denmark. One of the initiatives I consider to be the most important in the area of equality is the fight against trafficking in human beings. During the weekend and Easter, we saw that the newspaper Politiken highlighted the fact that too many African prostitutes live a miserable life on Vesterbro. I find it hard to understand that there are men who can get themselves to buy sex from a exposed and traded woman. I find that deeply abhorrent. Most of us in the Parliamentary Chamber are guaranteed to do so. We must combat this both in terms of demand and in terms of supply. We're gonna come after the backers, and we're gonna put them on hold. We must meet those women with respect and eye level and ensure that their lives, when they hopefully come out of the prostitution environment, can be tolerable. I also think it is important that we focus on strengthening our efforts, among others. stalking. The government has presented some very sensible initiatives. We know that there are thousands of Danes who suffer every day from being persecuted by people they do not want in their lives. I think this is an important equality priority and I look forward to working more on it. I think it is important that we strengthen the offers we have for women and men affected by violence, among other things. to those who are subjected to domestic violence by their boyfriend. It is an ultimate and important equality policy agenda. Then I also think that the whole process and the whole debate on honour-related crimes, conflicts and social control are an area that deserves even more attention. After all, these are the values that together create equality and the values that together counteract equality, which also create the opportunities for future integration into the Danish labour market, i.e. that young women can choose for themselves the spouse and the boyfriend they want in their lives. Some may have read Geeti Amiris long writing in Berlingske. She tells about how she as an Afghan descendant grew up in Denmark and becomes too Danish. The family in which she expects her to be married will no longer be known to her because she has suddenly become too Danish a woman. These are some of the important challenges of equality policy that we have. And I think it is very relevant and also urgent that we resolve them together. Then there is all the international work where I know that we are doing a lot together across parties to strengthen Denmark's position in both the UN and elsewhere. We do this by the way we affect work, i.e. conditions for the lgbt environment, and that is among other things. through IDAHO. I think we should do the same in the future. Now I got far away from my speech, but I often think it is important that we both talk about what we disagree about and about what, by the way, is gathering together. Fortunately, there are far more things that bring us together than separate us from the effort we have to work for. Then I am quite sure that there will be some questions about the Barsel Foundation, and of course I am looking forward to replying to them, if otherwise the number of rapporteurs who previously asked my colleague from the Danish People's Party has again expressed itself in favour of a brief comment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329164908	First of all, welcome to the area of equality! You will quickly discover if you have not already discovered that it is a fantastic exciting area. Excuse me, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, there is much we can agree on, I can hear. It was also my expectation, and it is the ambition of the Social Democratic Party to play constructively and help influence where there is room for it. Well, now for the macros, this whole thing with the maternity fund for the self-employed. The rapporteur on the Left also heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on the floor just now. It is two months since the Danish People's Party and a majority of the Danish Parliament adopted the report, which calls for something to be done in this area, so that negotiations are called for in order to resolve the unresolved problem that has arisen. But there hasn't been a virtue. It does not take a very long time to convene negotiations. In fact, it just requires sending an e-mail to the rapporteurs, and then we know that something is going to happen in this area. And that's not because you need a patted solution ready right away. You know, you can just invite me to negotiations and offer me a cup of coffee and a chat. So either the Minister is really slow at the keys, or you ignore the wishes of the Danish People's Party and a majority in the Folketing. What is the correct explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165037	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165039	I'm sorry to have to start my hopefully good future relationship with mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, like to overrule the premise he asks, but I have to do so. My party, the Left, voted against the maternity fund presented by the government in the last period. We did not do so because we are opposed to ensuring good conditions for the country's entrepreneurs. I was rapporteur in the field of entrepreneurship during the last period, I have been a company myself, and I have been director of the Danish Entrepreneurship Association. I share the ambition that it should be easier for both men and women to do business and, incidentally, also have a sensible life alongside it. But if we are to talk about mechanics, I would say that the thing is that the previous government presented a mess that didn't work. A solution was put forward that had no time on land. A bunch of sloppy things were presented, and collections were sent out to people who had participated in medical studies and asked them to pay for a maternity fund without having their own business. What on earth does it look like sitting here scolding us that we can't run a maternity fund that never worked? I know that the minister over there in the Ministry of Employment has a focus on the area. You want to find a better solution. I am not sure whether that is possible right now, but it is certainly not an area that is being ignored.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165144	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165147	I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur of the Left is fluctuating here, and perhaps much more of that is really needed here in the Danish Parliament, so that there can be a little more air during the debates here. That's really good, thanks for that. After all, the rapporteur of the Left heard very well the announcement from the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party expects negotiations to be convened. There is a majority outside the government which expects to be called for negotiations. Don't you just make a little impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165225	I have learned that you should never disappoint the Danish People's Party. So, of course, it makes an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165230	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165235	Thank you for that and thank you for an exciting speech from the rapporteur. The rapporteur attached great importance to the word freedom, and I think that was an excellent element in the speech. I would like to know whether this freedom should also apply to the prostitution community. Today we have a ruffle clause which means that women cannot protect themselves by, for example, having guards, and they cannot have telephone ladies employed without breaking the law. There are a large number of obstacles which basically make it more uncertain to be a prostitute than it needs to be. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Left is open to see whether we can revise the ruffle clause in order to improve conditions for the prostitutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165313	Thank you for the question. That's actually a very good question. In principle, I am opposed to making prostitution illegal. At the same time, however, I am not prepared to agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to change the legislation in this way. I also have to say that there are things that I am not yet fully aware of, and the situation in this area is one of them. So, if the rapporteur allows me, I will dig deeper into the material and the studies that are in the field and then discuss with the rapporteur afterwards. I am well aware that we then fall completely from the level we were at before with Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, but I nevertheless hope that the rapporteur will accept that explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165353	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165356	I promise. It wasn't because I had planned to ask this question and that way teasing. It was simply because the rapporteur himself spoke about this with freedom, and it made me think that it is also something that is so lacking in the prostitution environment. But I fully understand that there are, of course, many things you need to get into. I know all about that, I can say. So I also look forward to further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165416	In order to elaborate a little on what we talked about before, I would like to say that I think that the stories that have been published in the newspaper Politiken are terrible. After all, the women who walk around Vesterbro are very much women who have been dealt with by backmen who deserve to go to prison. A few years ago there was good cooperation in Central Jutland, where police, immigration authorities and social services helped women get out of the grip of these backers. This is something that I, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament and the Minister, would like to examine whether something further can be done about. Then we will have to debate the second part of the question when I get so smart that it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165452	I guess that's what you're looking forward to. The next is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165458	Thank you. The equal opportunities statement says: "The regulations for men to take paternity and parental leave are there, and the families can now flexibly distribute parental leave as they please. However, a new study by the Institute for Human Rights also shows that almost half of women and a quarter of men are discriminated against when they have to start a family and have maternity leave. So I would like to hear what the Left will propose to do so that the discrimination in the workplace does not work against the formal framework and the freedom that the rapporteur is talking about, and thus there is a flexible distribution of parental leave, so that parents can really distribute the leave themselves, as they wish, without being penalised for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165547	In other words, it is not really up to companies to stop parents from having parental leave. You have a legal requirement for that, let's just agree on that. Unless I've been terribly wrong, and I hope I haven't. A few weeks ago, the IMF published a study which showed that the companies that have skilled women in their management actually have a higher surplus. I had my arms up because it actually shows that if you want your company or project well, then you just have to find a management mix that consists of a wide range of competences. Similarly, it is important that we have both moral and practical debate in this area, which ensures that our labour market is so inclusive that there is, of course, room for you to start a family at the age you think is right and at the same time have a working life to come back to when that maternity is over. There is, of course, some social history in that it is new for some men to take as long leave if at all maternity leave as women do. Personally, but of course I'm not a role model for all men in this country, I'm of the opinion that if I can't get at least half my girlfriend's maternity leave when we're going to be parents, then there'll be fights at home at the kitchen table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165655	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165657	Thank you. Allow me to put another question, which is good enough for something in which the rapporteur said earlier he had not dug himself so deeply. But I did stick to one little thing anyway, and then you have to dismiss it if there is no answer to it. We are indicted in the third person). I'm sorry. I was aware that the rapporteur spoke of trying to change the demand for these women who have acted. How will the Left do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165737	Well, I think the demand side is quite interesting. I find it difficult to understand what makes a man, either from Denmark or a tourist coming to Copenhagen, go down to the heart of Copenhagen in an area where you know that there are traded women and then pay an unhappy African woman for having sex with him. I think it is important that we continue to have a moral debate in public that sex purchases are unacceptable and, in particular, about sex purchases by women who have acted. It is women who are forced to travel from Africa or Eastern Europe up here with a huge debt, often with promises that they will have to work in a perfectly normal profession. They are pushed into prostitution, beaten by their pimps and pressed not to go home again. People need that knowledge before they degrade themselves to buy sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165818	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165823	Thank you. I would like to continue on the very track of the women and trafficking in human beings that the rapporteur has just mentioned. In fact, the rapporteur mentioned that women must be helped out of the awkward conditions in which they live in Denmark, and I agree with the rapporteur when they are dealt with, among other things. prostitution. The problem is that the conditions under which they live, for example. Nigeria, where many of them have been traded from, is just as pitiful, I was saying perhaps in a different way, but also terribly pitiful. And there are stories of women who have been sent back with the contribution they have received from the Danish state and who have actually stolen that money after they set up a small shop in Nigeria, and so they are on bare ground. So my question relates to the fact that, if you are to limit it, you might say, power, it is also a question of putting in locally precisely in those countries where the problem arises, and that is a little bit difficult. The recommendations include: In this context, I would like to stress the importance of women's participation in the work of the Committee on Women's Rights and Women's Rights and the role of women in informing women of what it is that needs to be taken into account in order to prevent what you are getting into, for example. could become trafficking in human beings. The problem is that when the government cuts development aid, 7 billion. kr. In 2016, it's a little bit difficult with those bets. So what is the rapporteur's position? Will action not also be given priority in developing countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165941	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329165943	Then I can inform the Alternative's rapporteur that the Left is listening. And the Left is also interested in looking at solutions that are better than those that are today. Because there are none of the parties present in the Folketing whose policy has succeeded in limiting the trafficking in human beings and the prostitution that exists in some of Denmark's major cities. When you ask HopeNow and Nest, do you not get a clear answer as to whether these women should be granted asylum? Do they have to be sent back? Are they going somewhere else? There may be different answers depending on the situation of each woman. One of the things that is quite evident to me is that many of the women you meet on the street today are afraid of the authorities. They're afraid of what'll happen to them if they talk to the authorities. This is certainly a situation that we need to start by improving and clarifying. There are some examples I mentioned the Mid - Jutland police and official cooperation earlier on, where we need to see if we can do even better. How we do this in relation to the women who are being sent back is something in which I think we should be open to a solution-based dialogue. And if the alternative has good solutions in this area, we would be happy to listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170050	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170053	Thank you for that answer. Then I would like to address my second question to the issue of the barshell. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that at his home there should certainly be a fight to be allowed to take the bar. And as Mrs Trine Torp also mentioned, the statement says that there is free choice in Denmark in relation to the part of the barsel that can be distributed between parents. The challenge is that we still do not have equal pay in Denmark. There is an unexplained salary difference of 7%, which means that it will be my claim that many men actually find it difficult to take that maternity leave. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that as long as we have a pay gap between men and women, it is difficult for men to get on the ground in relation to the barracks?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170134	Yeah, well, it's both and... After all, the question of maternity is not a question that we must dictate here from the speaking chair of the Folketing. It is up to the individual family to adjust. That is my entirely fundamental position, and fortunately it is also the entirely fundamental position of the Left. Having said that, I believe that there should be equal pay for equal work. At the same time, I also believe that the great gender gap in the choice of education is something we should look at. I understand that there are some subjects that attract people more than others. But it should be the case that there are no social barriers which mean that people per. tradition or definition chooses a special profession which pays a special salary. And by the way... now I can see that my speaking time has expired. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170209	Thank you. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170214	Thank you. Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. There is more to us than there is to us, and I would, of course, like to ask whether this solution, so as to guarantee the rights of the self-employed, is now something that brings us together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170237	I am afraid that the business agenda does not necessarily bring us all together. I've been trying to be an employee with pay and I've tried to run a business myself. Some of you may have, and the thing is, these things are different. It cannot be ensured that industrial relations are the same for people who own a CVR number and those who do not. You have the responsibility to create a turnover yourself. You are responsible for finding the employees you want to hire. You are responsible for servicing your customers and getting up early and going home late. At the same time, you also have the opportunity to go bankrupt and lose everything, and you have the opportunity to become wealthy if your project succeeds, depending on what the objective is. In principle, do I want to see a maternity settlement that can be accepted as an independent one? Yes, I do. Do I think that the solution presented by the Socialists and the other parties was sensible, feasible and effective? No, politically and legislatively, it was a mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170331	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170334	In other words, what is called a business policy agenda, I call it a family policy agenda. But I don't want that to be what divides us. The rapporteur said earlier that there are social historical reasons why some parents do not take so much maternity leave. But precisely when we talk about maternity leave for self-employed people, it is certainly not a social-historical reason that lies behind it, and then it is probably legislation that is lacking. That is why I ask again: does the rapporteur of the Left wish to help find a solution, to create new legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170416	The rapporteur of the Left is aware that this issue is being dealt with by the Minister for Employment. At the same time, however, would the rapporteur of the Left also like to inform us that when the Danes were asked five years ago: do you think entrepreneurship is good? Then most said yes. When asked: Would you like to start a business yourself? Then the majority said no. In fact, it was only in Spain that fewer people wanted to start a business. Today, entrepreneurship has become the new buzzword. If you go out to Niels Brock or any other business school or a high school, then the range of young people who want to start a business is long. The proportion of women • young women who want to start a business is increasing. I am aware that the relationship is one to seven at the moment, and we want to change that. It is necessary to find solutions in this area, but that does not mean that the solution advocated in the Social Democratic Party is necessarily the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170459	Before I say thank you, I must also point out to the rapporteur that we are not saying 'you' from the Chair of Parliament. Jakob Engel-Schmidt I apologize so many times). There is just one brief comment to make. Sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170512	Thank you, Madam President. It is very good to hear that the rapporteur does not want prohibition or coercion but wants more freedom. It's hard to disagree with that. Those are really fine words, you have to say. Nevertheless, the reality is that less than a third of the start-up entrepreneurs are women. It is also true that there were some start-up problems with the previous maternity fund. It's an old story that we've heard many times. This has also been emphasised many times by the former rapporteur in the field of equality, so we have heard it a number of times. But is it not important that it becomes easier to be an entrepreneur? Because it's obviously quite difficult for these women to be entrepreneurs. It is to quote the former Minister for Employment, who said that it must be easier to be an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170619	I believe that it must be easier for the right people to become entrepreneurs and that it must be easier to get their hands on the hot plate and make an effort if you want to start a business. But let me introduce the social democrats present in their own party history as far as entrepreneurship is concerned. In 1992, 1993 and 1994 Finance Minister Mogens Lykketoft and Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen launched an entrepreneurial service. You had a number of unemployed people to be activated, and you gave these people a bag of money every month to start your own business, which meant that there was a third vegetable dealer on the main street, a third hairdresser and a third shoemaker in different Danish cities. Did these people have any kind of competence in starting a business? No, they didn't. It was social and business policy mixed with political ideology. When the benefit expired after 3 or 4 years it shows the figures from the Statistics Denmark then these people went into a personal bankruptcy. Many lost their jobs and activities, and by the way, it had been possible to outperform shoemaker No. 1 and 2 in the main street because they did not receive State aid. I think it is important that those who have the competence and the will to start up have it easy. I do not think you should just push people into becoming entrepreneurs because that is a political objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170720	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170724	Now it must be the right people to be entrepreneurs, those with the right skills. Now, I would like to say that we are talking about women and men, so I guess there is no reason to wonder whether it is women or men who are best at being entrepreneurs or have the right skills. But we Socialists are ready to negotiate a solution in this area, and then the question is: what does the rapporteur want? Will the rapporteur just stand by because it is a position of principle? Or will you try to come up with something that could be a solution in this area? Or maybe there is no other solution than that people out of the blue and all of a sudden want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170806	I think it is wonderful to be reproached for not wanting to support a solution that we have voted against in the first place. But it is simply formidable that you can stand here and be asked by a number of leading social democrats why you will not support a solution in an area that you have voted against. The Left voted against the package presented because it was built on sloppy, lack of realism and poor legwork. Does this mean that no better solutions can be found? No, it certainly does not. Does that mean I have a solution ready here on the platform? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170834	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329170848	Since Enhedslisten's equal opportunities rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, cannot be here today, I have the honour of presenting the views of Enhedslisten in relation to the Government's statement on equality. The government has chosen to focus its efforts on gender equality in three areas: individual rights and freedoms, better use of resources and talents, and a global equal opportunities effort. The first category, rights and freedoms of the individual, according to the government, includes the fight against trafficking in human beings, women's oppression among ethnic minorities, the fight against violence in close relationships and everyday sexism. It is positive that the government attaches importance to everyday sexism. The fact that women in Denmark put up with bells, shouts and sexual comments is a problem of equality. And with the recognition that this problem exists, we must also recognise that equality is both a structural and a cultural problem. Equality is not achieved by writing on a piece of paper or in a law that men and women have the same rights. It is also a question of getting a culture in which men and women are equally worthwhile and where women are not treated less because of their gender. That is why we have to recognise that it is an expression of a cultural problem when 32%. of Danish women have experienced violence or sexual abuse in a couple relationship. Approx. 33,000 women are subjected to physical or sexual violence each year, and too many rape cases are not taken seriously enough, too few are solved, and far too few lead to conviction. It is also a cultural problem that, among other things, has to be addressed. in certain minority environments in Denmark is a greater repression of women, more cases of violence and more strong social control than we find in the rest of Denmark. It is therefore very good that the government will continue and expand its work on empowerment, among other things. through girls' groups and finally get a residence offer in Jutland to those for whom the conflicts have come so far that they have to flee in the dark and gloom of the night. We also hope in the Enhedslisten that the government will increase the focus on outpatient crisis relief and dialogue efforts between women and their parents. But there is something missing from the government in their efforts for minority women fighting for liberation. Fortunately, we see a lot of women shouting loudly, demanding respect and saying from the people and we must support them. We do not do this by smearing their religion or cutting everyone over a comb. We do, among other things. by building a strong welfare society that can be their safety net when they take the leap. The parties behind the cash aid reform do not seem to understand that, when they withdraw economic independence under vulnerable women, they also remove their opportunities to get out of violence and control, because only with independence do they have a real opportunity to leave a violent man if you also want a future for yourself and your children. We can hear this from both the women themselves and the shelters. That is why the first thing we should do is to abandon the reform of the social security system and introduce the right to centre of crisis and the right to protection, that is to say. If we believe that we want to combat violence and social control, then we must help to recover. Lack of equality is a cultural thing, yes, and it is about individual rights, yes. But it is certainly also about what conditions the collective offers the individual, so you have a real choice and real opportunity for something else. The second category of government action is about better use of talent, and it covers the inequality between men and women in the education system and in the labour market. It seems crazy that the government, on the one hand, shuts down the special research programme YDUN, which was targeted at women, while, on the other hand, at the same time preaching equality. It is really a pity that in many ways the government does not really move forward from the recognition of the existence of the problem and get started with actual action. When it comes to maternity leave, the Minister writes in his statement: "The regulations for men to take paternity and parental leave are there and the families can now flexibly distribute parental leave as they please. The government wants more men to take a bigger share of the bar. Then there is not really any other effort on the drawing board than more dialog. In the Enhedslisten, we do not understand why the government is opposed to men being given the same maternity leave as women. Today, women are entitled to earmarked maternity leave. Why should men not be granted the corresponding right? It would give fathers the same rights; it would bring us closer to giving children rights to both their mother and their father; and it would help on the massive unequal pay that still exists and that over a long life accumulates, so that women even have less money for old age. Women lose 10% on average. of the salary of each child they receive. That's not fair. Recently, a study showed that at the present rate we will get equal pay in approx. 111 years. Too many people still point out that it is for women's sake: they just have to pull themselves together, get better at negotiating wages, change jobs a little more often or get better at boasting. All the marine explanations are about the individual woman herself being able to change the unequal pay if she changes her behavior, but that is and remains nonsense. Inequality between the sexes is also a structural problem with a general perception that the work of women and girls is not worth as much as that of men, and it does not fix itself. We need to re-establish gender-based wage statistics; in public contracts we need to give the wage-earners a proper boost in the classic women's professions: their work is worth no less because it is caring, on the contrary. This requires, as the Minister himself writes, that all parties take part, and this also applies to the government. I have not had the opportunity to talk about the global imbalance, and that is not good. Because when poverty, war, hunger or natural disasters hit women harder. It is therefore incredible that the government has not mentioned their cuts in foreign aid or the lack of support for the secular forces in Syria and Northern Iraq that are trying to combat ISIS and Assad, or the cuts in green efforts, so that the fight against natural disasters has been reversed. I hope that we will have time to discuss the world's global challenges in a gender perspective independently another time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329171557	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329171612	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for the presentation on the perspective and action plan 2016 for gender equality, which I have looked forward to reading. And I would also like to thank the Minister for her ability to focus primarily on those areas that really need political focus. In fact, I think that is mostly the case, although there are still some areas in which I do not think politicians should interfere. But mostly I think that one is good at focusing where necessary, so thank you for that. The Minister emphasizes in several places in the statement that Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to equality. We have equality in Denmark, but although we are in the goal understood in the way that women can easily reach the top in the Danish business community, that girls and boys are considered equally worthwhile, and that everyone has equal access to education, health, etc., there are thus still important focus areas in the field of equality. I recognise this, although I would like to maintain that, overall, we in Denmark have equality. The refugee crisis is in many ways unhappy and all the parties here in the Folketing are concerned with solutions to the challenges we face. The challenges are often very concrete, housing needs to be found, Danish courses to be offered to start the employment process and integration efforts to be rethinked. But the refugee crisis can also challenge our equality. For many of the people who come to Denmark comes with a completely different view of women than what we have in Denmark, where men and women are equal, and we must be aware of that challenge. A major private train operator in Germany has just introduced special women's sections on the trains as a safety measure following the nasty experiences in Cologne New Year's Night, where many women were molested by what the police think were asylum seekers. Of course, safety must be top priority. But to introduce special women's departments on a train bombs us quite a lot back in terms of equality, and I think that is crucial that we focus on that. Whatever cultural background one has when coming to Denmark, one must fully understand how important equality is in Denmark and how crucial it is to respect equality for a life in Denmark. That is why I am pleased that the government is focusing on this area and that the newcomers who come, respect and understand equality in Denmark. This is an important focus area also for the Liberal Alliance. Another important focus area, which also relates to the same problem of women's vision, is the social control that prevails in some environments in Denmark. It is a social control which effectively prevents girls from living a free life and where coercion and threats can be part of everyday life. I also note that the report raises the problem of social control by emphasising that these ethnic minorities must know the Danish freedoms in concrete terms. I do not think it is enough to know about Danish freedoms. I do not believe that it is necessary to adopt the view that men and women are equal just because they live and live in a country where equality is a cornerstone. I think that we need to work more decisively to put a stop to social control, and I think that I am missing some concrete initiatives from the government here. A third area that I think is important to debate is the role of fathers. The modern father can be as caring and secure as the good mother, yet very often mother becomes a resident parent in conflicting matters. As I see it, the legislation is sufficient, but perhaps it is the assessments in the State Administration that do not follow time. I have been told by a lawyer who deals with family law that if a father has not taken any maternity leave, he is in advance behind on points whose association in a divorce case suddenly ends in the State Administration. But is it the case that father cannot be the primary caregiver for a ten-year-old because in the family they chose to adapt themselves so that it was mother who took the most maternity leave when the child was born? Are we absolutely sure that the legislation we have adopted is managed according to the best interests of the child in every case? I believe that this is something we need to discuss, because I do not really feel sure. Then, of course, we can discuss the maternity leave of fathers, but I do not share the Government's desire for more fathers to take more maternity leave. It is not an end in itself that fathers take more maternity leave, just as it is not an end in itself that more men become hairdressers or more women become plumbers. The aim must be for all of us, men and women, to have equal opportunities, and the rest must be for each family to decide for themselves. So the government's very clear objective of having more men take maternity leave, the Liberal Alliance does not share, and I would say that I do not understand how a bourgeois-liberal government believes to know that it is good for fathers to take maternity leave, which is actually written literally in the statement. Part of being liberal is, of course, precisely that we recognise the individual and the differences we as human beings have, including different preferences. We cannot and should not comment on what is the good life for adult people. We should create the framework for the individual to make the best choice for himself. We therefore share the aim that the possibility of maternity should be present for the man as well as for the woman, and that possibility exists today. I would also like to mention that I think it is positive that Denmark is a model for other countries. There are many countries that are far, far behind in this area, and if we can in any way contribute to increased equality in these places, I think it is fantastic. That is why we fully support the government's focus on the international contribution. Last I would like to mention that a few months ago I met Jytte Hilden for a talk about equality, and she opened my eyes to how grateful our generation should be for the struggle of previous generations in this field. My foundation has been so solid that I have never looked down and seen that I am actually standing on the shoulders of former cool equality defenders, and they must of course be thankful, and I owe it to my son and a future daughter to ensure that the foundation that has been created is preserved in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172307	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172314	I wondered what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said. The rapporteur criticised the Left for saying that it is good for fathers to be with their children that it is good for fathers to have parental leave. Why should it not be good for fathers to have parental leave? I have never heard anyone say that it should not be, nor have I seen any studies showing that it should not be good for fathers to have parental leave. All scientists and experts, in general, all who have some sort of contact with this, say that it is good, not only for the fathers, but also for their children, that fathers spend more time with their children, also in the early days. So why on earth is that exactly what the Liberal Alliance has to criticise the government for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172404	Well now it's not like I'm standing up here saying it's not that I think it is, but I'm not interested in forcing any fathers to stay at home and take maternity leave with their children. It may be that the woman would rather, or it may be that the man has other wishes. In reality, being liberal is about creating the framework, and then the individual family can assess it for themselves. And I wonder if the individual father wouldn't do it if he thought that's how he wanted his and his family's maternity to be organized together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172441	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172443	I just think it seems that the Liberal Alliance is blind to the fact that there may be other factors at stake than just free will. Well, there's a reason why one in five male HKs doesn't have a single day of leave with their newborn child. There is a reason why studies show that fathers would like to take much more leave than what they are holding today. There is a workplace culture, there is a culture in society, there are all sorts of things that mean that it is not just about free choice. I think it is quite reasonable that we should not legislate, and I also think it is fair that the other thing is not what I am talking about, but not even the Liberal Alliance must be blind to the fact that there are other factors at stake than just free will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172530	It may well be that there are other factors at stake, but the question here is whether we should legislate on it. And you can say that none of our rights in Denmark have fallen from the sky. When women have the right to vote today and we have all the rights that we have, it is because some have taken the lead and fought that battle. And that's where I think the men just have to get on the field if they think this is important. In legislative terms, they have all the possibilities; they have the law on their side. They can come together in relation to their employer and take the maternity leave that they think will be best for them if they think otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172603	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172608	Thank you. The rapporteur himself mentions that the less participation of fathers in the child's life may have an impact on matters of association and parental responsibility later on. At the same time, we also know that according to the London School of Economics and the University of Copenhagen, women cost 10%. of her salary for each child she receives, because of less presence on the labour market and the hourly wage she saw thus being paid. On average, women save only 80 kroner. up to pension in relation to the 100 DKK men save. So it makes them poorer when they retire, but also if they choose to divorce. So both parties can sort of, because of the fact that the barsel is not equally distributed, get caught if they get divorced. I just want to hear the rapporteur: why is it that men and women should not have the same rights to maternity? 'Cause they don't actually have that today. Women are entitled to a certain earmarked part of maternity leave, men do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172712	Now the SF's rapporteur speaks of the fact that the barsel is being distributed. After all, it is a maternity allowance that is distributed in the family, and one also has the opportunity to speak in the family pension terms and everything else. The family's economy as a whole has the opportunity to distribute in the family just as you want. You can make a voluntary arrangement between Mom and Dad. So in relation to this saying that you do not have equal opportunities today, I would say that you do. Dad can take 1⁄2 years of maternity leave today, if that's what he wants, just like Mom can. And yes, it is true that something has been earmarked for Mom. We could discuss that if there were any. I am, in fact, open to talk about this if that is where you think there is a wedge in terms of equality. But Mom and Dad think we in the Liberal Alliance ourselves must distribute that maternity leave and assess what is best for them in the individual family.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172802	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172805	But does the rapporteur also acknowledge that this is actually some of the things that men who get stuck in later divorce cases say themselves that this is how women have been with the children in the first few years and that it is therefore typically also those who take sick days when the children are ill, etc., can influence how closely the children are with their parents and that it can have an impact on what it is then that parents' authority and cooperation are then assessed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172839	Yeah, that's right. What is my impression is that it makes a difference that, for those fathers who have opted out of the child in favour of their work in the early years and who may not have taken the first and second day of illness and have not been with a doctor, it weighs heavily in relation to who is to be a primary resident parent when they are in a conflicting divorce. But that is not something that we must politically go in and legislate on; it is something that the fathers must be aware of, that is, when they opt out of the bar, it can have consequences later in their lives. I think that is an important debate to have taken. I think it is important to inform the fathers that they should bear in mind that it has consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172917	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172924	I would like to put a question a little further to the comments made by the former rapporteur from the SF, because this is also about safeguarding human rights. After all, it's about guaranteeing a father the same rights that a mother has in relation to a child. Does the Liberal Alliance not agree that if the mother has an earmarked maternity leave, that is to say a right, it is only right that the danger should have the same right? Or you have to look at turning down the mother's right and completely abolishing it in relation to the bar.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329172956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173000	Thank you. In practice, father has the opportunity to take maternity leave on equal terms with mother. It is true that the first time, the first 14 weeks, is earmarked for mother because there are some biological considerations. The child has a need that mother can satisfy through breastfeeding, and therefore it is likely that the first 14 weeks have been earmarked for mother. I don't know if you need to. There are a lot of bottled children, and I wonder if Mom wouldn't take the first few weeks anyway. So I don't know if I have to. In practice, Dad has the opportunity to take the next 14 weeks if he wants to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173040	It is not true that fathers have the same rights in relation to their children as a mother, because today there is no earmarked maternity for fathers. It's for mothers. So I would just like to ask: if the Liberal Alliance is against an earmarked maternity leave for fathers, will the Liberal Alliance also abolish the earmarked maternity leave for mothers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173107	I do not think that we in the Liberal Alliance will be tabling a resolution to remove earmarked maternity leave for mothers. But in principle: yes, I do not think it makes sense to have that law. So, in principle, I would like to remove it because I really do not believe that the child will suffer because there is no special earmarked maternity leave for mother. So yes, the rapporteur is right to say that there is no legal equality in relation to the fact that mother has been earmarked for mother and that there is no father. However, in the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that maternity should necessarily be earmarked, and certainly not that this is a problem in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173142	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173150	In other words, that is the way it is now, and I think the rapporteur also agrees that the legislation that we are doing here in the Danish Parliament also affects the culture of society and the way it perceives what is right and wrong in this way over the years. And that is why we also have a finding that women are often regarded as a more precarious labour force than men, especially if they are of childbearing age, as it says, because then there is a risk that they will have to take maternity leave. After all, that can only be remedied by making legislation so that we also create rights for men, so that it becomes a culture in the workplace that both men and women go on maternity leave. And that would really, very many men actually want, because they have the experience that it is very difficult today to accept that they are taking maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173249	I have some doubts as to what the question was. However, in view of the fact that we can only solve this by means of regulation, I would say that this is not right. As the rapporteur of the Left said earlier up here, it has just emerged that the companies with more women in management, in top positions, are doing very well, very well. And this shows precisely that there are very clear advantages in choosing to take women into top positions in the Danish economy, despite the fact that women may have to leave during a maternity leave period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173327	That is not really an answer to my question. It is true that there are more women in management and that the companies that have women in management are doing well. It's fine. But it doesn't help the staff on the floor, if I may say so. After all, not all women in the workplace become managers at the workplace in question. So again I ask: if we know that the legislation is a feature of society, was it not also an idea to look at it with a little fresh, even if you come from the Liberal Alliance, and then say: we should also give men rights so that they are more equal to women?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173409	No, the Liberal Alliance is not prepared for that at all. It is true that the legislation affects society, influences culture, but there are many other things that do, and so you can easily influence a culture without having a new law in your hand. And that's kind of what we in the Liberal Alliance think men have to do. If men are so interested in having more maternity leave, they already have the opportunity, and they must seize it, and then they must stand together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173436	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329173445	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which I have read with great interest. At first glance, this statement aims to address several key elements of the gender equality issues that we have in Denmark, and we agree with the Minister that we have formally made quite a lot of progress in terms of equality in Denmark. At the same time, however, the informal gap is very large if we look at the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. In the alternative, we agree with the government that equal opportunities policy should aim to guarantee the freedom of individuals to decide their own way of life. And as equal opportunities rapporteur, who is also responsible for the school area, I am pleased that the primary school is mentioned in the report as a central arena to change the structures that constantly create inequality in Danish society. Having said that, it is also our clear assessment that most of the initiatives presented by the Minister in the statement are of a symptom-treating nature. Therefore, we would like to invite the government to dig deeper into a spade-stick so that the structures that support the lack of equality are addressed. In line with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who also mentioned something about digging a shovel deeper, we would like to invite you to do so in this debate. One example is that when girls and boys' gender-based educational choices are addressed in the statement, it is established that parents have different expectations of their children's educational choices, which may be part of the problem. It is also pointed out that one of the problems of equality is that boys are professionally lagging behind girls, while girls are well-suited to the boys. It is not a surprise, but it is not addressed that the different expectations of boys and girls start well before primary school. They start, from the children are born, yes, sometimes actually almost before the children are born, because they are institutionalized in our view of child rearing, in our expectations of children, in our practice of upbringing, in schools, in leisure homes, in kindergarten, in the media; all the places where children and young people are confronted with how it is right to be a boy and how it is right to be a girl. So if this problem really needs to be addressed, we must dare to face up to the fact that there are standards, even in Danish society, which very early entangle children and put them in a booth that gives a very narrow definition of their gender. So we only do this by starting at the very bottom of the mass, namely, from where our gender perceptions and our assumptions and oversights come, and that mass is made up of some pretty fixed standards and ideas. A very good example of some who try to address it is the Normstorms, which have projects in the City of Copenhagen and in Aarhus, where they are out in primary schools and teach children and also teachers how to constantly attack the ideas and assumptions that we have in terms of gender and gender perception. I would like to recommend to the government that they take this into account and into the work when setting up a working group to look at this challenge in relation to primary school. Now I've been talking about standards. The only place I can actually read the word'standards' in the statement is in the section dealing with refugee education. Among other things, it says: on the education initiative, that it should teach refugees, that • and I quote:... Dad can go home with the kids. As long as not even half of the new fathers in Denmark take longer maternity leave than the first 14 days, I think that either the Minister or the dictionary should revise the definition of the word easily. I am very happy to work for a Denmark where Dad can easily go home with the children. Such a society would create the best conditions and role models for the new Danes who come to the country, but also for our own future generations. Because if there is something that especially little boys need, it's actually getting some male role models that practice care and show how to be an empathetic being. When we do not understand that some men can sometimes behave violently or sexistly, we often react with outrage and disapproval. It's completely understandable, and it's totally okay. But there is a difference between rejecting something and trying to understand an action. Perhaps it is not so hard to understand that some young men may find it difficult to find an expression of their frustrations, their anger, their insecurity, their anxiety, their insecurity, when many have grown up without any male role models that are close and actually show how to practice care and how to practice empathy, and how to treat other people empathically and caringly. I know it sounds a little caricatured. I'm not standing up here saying that men are not caring and empathetic, because they certainly are. But I'm saying there are a lot of men who may find it harder than women. I think this is related to the lack of male caring role models for boys' children. Therefore, there is also a need for Dad to get more on the field at home. But this means that we must dare to use the tools that create the conditions for the standards we would like to see, such as a father of duty. And an obvious tool, which we have also discussed in this Chamber today, and which we from other countries know to work, is earmarked maternity. The Minister writes, and we have also mentioned this, that the framework for men to take paternity and parental leave is there and that the families today can flexibly distribute parental leave as they please. Yeah, if there was an equal wage, you might say, maybe that was the case. But the fact is that it is still the man who makes the most money and that it is usually the woman who takes the bar. So that's only 20%. by the Danish men who take the maternity leave that can be distributed. In e.g. Iceland has earmarked three months' maternity leave for men out of nine months in total, and that is over 90 per cent. of the fathers who take the 3 months, and many take more than the 3 months. So it works. The SFI did this study, which we have also mentioned, about earmarked maternity leave for men, and it showed that the legislation on earmarking can actually have a normative effect and help normalize that fathers take leave. So why don't we go that way in Denmark? When I've asked fathers in my company I often have, because I'm actually interested in hearing what they really think so many say that I would have liked to have taken more maternity leave, but there was concern for the family's finances and my family's finances could not bear it. And many also say: I would have liked to have taken more maternity leave, but it was a little bit difficult for me to get to my place of work and say it, because it is not very common where I work. So, in reality, there is no freedom in the families to distribute the barsel freely between the parents. That is why we really need to dare to ask ourselves how we are freeing the family to make free choices. For us in the alternative, earmarked maternity is not a duty, it is a right. It is a right to fathers and therefore an increased opportunity for more free elections in families. In the section on refugees there is another thing I feel is necessary to address. The minister writes in the statement that refugees and immigrants must be informed about equality and about the rights of women and sexual minorities in Danish society. We have also mentioned this in the past. Among other things, it is mentioned that the government will implement this mandatory module for training in asylum centres, such as: on these subjects. We are in agreement with that. But if you remember a little bit back on your old Danish teaching and read this section, you quickly realize that everything that says about this is in passive form. It says that refugees and asylum seekers must be provided with information, knowledge, information and so on. That is what I am asking: where is the participation? Where's the involvement? Where is civil society? Where is the link between refugees and Danes? Where is the incentive to involve Danish volunteers in the work of friendship families, homework help, sportsmates etc.? These are people who can actually involve and help refugees and immigrants in practice to be introduced into the norms of gender equality that we have in Denmark. I really miss that. It is our belief in the alternative that equality and respect for women's rights cannot only be learned in a classroom. It must also be learned in practice. That is why we need to think about civil society in these efforts. Then I go back to the standards for a brief comment. The standards of Danish society, which we take so much for granted in terms of gender perception and equality, do not only affect the family. It also shows the section on everyday sexism and sexism in e.g. social media. We need the courage to address that. These are the standards that make it seem natural and inevitable and therefore okay when some men abuse women in the late hours of the night, because did the woman now say no with a voice that was firm enough? It is also the standards that make it difficult for men exposed to violence to seek help. These are the standards that make it difficult to address sexism and racism in the workplace, without destroying the good mood or getting to seem prude. It is also the standards that allow you to see the word bitch or whore in a comment on Facebook, and that comment even gets likes. It is only when we dare face up to the Danish gender standards that we can really do something about the informal lack of equality that permeates Danish society. It is a lack of equality which harms both women and men and all those who do not feel like either or. So, in the alternative, we would really like to have a debate on this, which is digging deeper into a spade, and to use some of the knowledge that exists in this area, which makes it clear not only what the problems are, but also what the problems are due to, and in which we will therefore have the framework for a more thorough debate, but also a bolder debate, because we are all forced to debate the standards that we are all helping to maintain. Then we can have an open debate on whether the root causes of the problems we then identify are something we should address politically. We may disagree on that. But let us take the debate. And by that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174502	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174508	Thank you to the rapporteur for an extensive speech. There were elements with which I was very much in agreement, but the rapporteur also said some things that I must say, frankly, I perhaps think are a little far-fetched. This is why, when fathers do not take maternity leave, it almost completely legitimises the fact that boys' children grow up to become violent or rape. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur has any evidence to suggest that the amount of maternity has an impact on whether children are growing up and developing violent tendencies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174539	Yeah, well, first of all, I want to say that those weren't my words. That was the rapporteur's interpretation. What I was trying to address was that there is a lot of research, and it is related theoretic research which shows that children's involvement in childhood actually has enormous significance for it, one might say, reaction to, among other things. It is also important that the Commission and the Council of Ministers should be involved in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and that the Commission should be involved in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. has had a weak connection with male role models, in fact may have more difficulty in e.g. to respond caringly empathically. So that's what I'm referring to, it's not just for maternity, I'm using maternity as an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174618	[Sound emission]... I do not think that the rapporteur's original speech made it quite clear. I just think it is worth questioning whether this link necessarily needs to be within the first year of maternity leave. It is fair to have the political view that maternity should be earmarked. It was more of the secondary consequences that I might question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174643	Yes, there is research that shows that it is in fact already in the early years that this has an effect. It is also a professional discussion which I am not an expert on either. Now I have read it out a little, but we can easily take that discussion. I have no doubt that the relationship in childhood, whether it be in the first year, the first two years, the first five years or the first ten years, is of great importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174705	The next question is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174709	Thank you. Thank you, too, for a speech which shows that there are both areas in which we can easily work together and areas in which we may not be entirely in agreement. I noted the rapporteur's and the alternative's position on earmarked maternity, and it may not come as a surprise that we disagree. The Left believes that a requirement for distributed maternity leave is family policy coercion. It reduces the families to social units, which must be dictated a special distribution, because it is believed politically that it will provide the best social conditions. Is the rapporteur not concerned that this coercion will remove the independence of families, will remove the reasoning behind the way in which families build up their lives, prioritise their time and adapt themselves? It is worth thinking about this in principle, and I am therefore actually curious to hear the rapporteur's reasoning in this clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174811	No, I'm not worried about that. First of all, we can look at the experiences that exist abroad, which show good results, for example. I would like to say that this is a regulatory measure which we can agree with or disagree with. Secondly, I would like to say again that we do not see it as coercion, but as a right to the fathers. It is a right for fathers, an increased right, in relation to what they have today, to have something more maternity, which is earmarked for fathers. That's why I don't see it as coercive at all. I just think that the premise Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt speaks from the premise I am speaking from. So I'm not worried. I also believe that we must pay attention to what we adopt politically. If we adopt regulatory measures, it is not because it needs to be something that must continue forever. Sometimes we need to give political impetus to development. It could, for example, be done. Be with this. We need to boost development, we need to get the fathers on the ground more. I think we all agree here that we would like to see the fathers more on the field. Here's an opportunity for a grip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174914	I see it as coercion. It may be that the rapporteur calls it something else, but de facto it will be coercion. Then it can be said that research shows that it might be sensible in other countries. I believe that the ability of families to prioritise their own everyday lives is more important than what the rapporteur considers politically important. I would also say that politically speaking, experience is that once rights have been taken from people, they rarely come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329174947	It may well be that those rights will be so much appreciated that we want to keep them. I just think we disagree. I do not see it as coercion, I see it as a right, and it is probably the two different platforms on which we stand. So I don't know if we can meet, but we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175003	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175006	I will continue where my group colleague left off, because when the alternative talks about it being a right for men, it is agreed that this means less right for the individual woman, because maternity leave has to be taken somewhere. Then I also get worried about Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier's association... at least the male part of it... because it sounds like some wimpy men who dare not take the maternity leave they are entitled to. Well, my daughter turned 16 the other day, and I had three months' maternity leave with her, and it was nice. Could this be because the rapporteur's acquaintance may be made up of women who will not allow their husbands to take that leave, rather than men who dare not say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175050	There are two things Jan E. Jørgensen asks about here. The first is true: yes, it is clear that if we give men more rights, we may well have to take some from women. We need a certain balance here, don't we? So I'm not so afraid to address that. Secondly, I have a very reasonable male association, I think. But it may well be that there are some women who also have the tradition and culture that we have in Danish society, tend to want to stick to the fact that you might want to take the bars more seriously. That is something we must challenge. It is therefore part of the whole, it can be said, that the process of getting the address, whether men should have something earmarked for maternity leave, maybe women should also find out that this means that they have to give something back. It's okay. We must be open to that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175146	Now I see who is in the chair, and that is why I will say: where there is will, there is way. I mean, if, as a man, you want the maternity leave you're entitled to, you take it. Bigger isn't the problem. That is why it must mean that there are some families in which it is thought that it is the woman who fits best or wants the most what do I know? I agree that, of course, there may be structures that change over time and that it will be more comfortable as a man to take maternity leave. But to the point of wanting to go in and say that if the man does not take this maternity leave, it simply lapses, I would say: are you sure that you are quite in line with your female voters in the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175235	Yeah, that's the last thing I'm not so worried about. The voters of the alternative are very open to this debate at least. But it is just not right to say that where there is a will there is a way when Jan E. Jørgensen himself addresses the challenge, in relation to the structures that we know and where we can see in black and white that there is no equal pay. Well, there's a difference between walking 10,000 kroner. down a month with the families or you go 5,000 kroner. down a month. There is a financial difference between how things are going to work together. So I simply disagree that where there is a will there is a way. There are also some structures that make it difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175318	The next question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175326	Thank you. The rapporteur says that when you ask men who have not taken maternity leave, what is the reason why they have not taken maternity leave, it is often said that it is also for the sake of the family's overall economy, because the husband often earns more than the woman. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the entire economy of a family is an absolutely crucial foundation for family life and that this is not just something that one would like to put at risk in this way? Does the rapporteur not even recognise that consideration for the family's overall economy and the security of having it under control and having a good foundation are important for good family life?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175413	Well, yeah, 100%, thousand percent. That is precisely why I say that when today's challenge is that what holds back some men from taking maternity leave is the family's economy, then we have to find a solution that gives men the right to take maternity leave, but without harming the family's economy. So this isn't about me standing here telling you that we have to force families to go down because we're earmarking some money for the danger. We also need to find a model for a maternity fund or something else that allows families to be compensated for the maternity leave that the men then take. So, of course, family finances are important to consider.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175453	Then I just have to understand correctly: you want an earmarked maternity leave for men. Does the earmarked maternity leave also have to provide a guarantee that the husband will maintain his current salary during this earmarked maternity leave? Otherwise, you're gonna go down in pay if you're gonna get paid as it is today. So should employers be forced to pay full wages during earmarked maternity leave, or should there be a state fund spitting in the box up to what the danger is earning today? Or how will the alternative ensure that the individual family does not go down in pay if the danger is forced to take three months' maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175534	I don't have the finished model. Well, I can't tell you what the finished model should be like. Well, I can't. I don't have a complete play from up here. But it is clear that we need to look at a model that allows us to compensate for the wage cuts that people would then have. It could be a state-funded fund. We are in dialogue with the trade union movement and agreements could also be made in the field of trade union movement. However, we cannot simply demand that the danger should take more maternity leave if it is at the same time detrimental to the family's finances. We also need to address that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175607	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175610	I was not really supposed to take the floor, but I was caught up in this debate and exchange of views between the Left and the Alternative. Now the Left has sat down again, but I will take the floor anyway. Without interfering in the substance, I just need to say three things, and then the rapporteur from the Alternative must say whether she agrees or disagrees. First of all, isn't that the point of talking about coercion a little hollow? Because then there is already a question of coercion. Today, two weeks' maternity leave is earmarked for the fathers. If they don't hold it, it'll disappear. Today, 18 weeks of maternity leave are earmarked for mothers. If they don't take it, it'll go away. If you argue that it is coercive, you have to say that we are already forcing them to do so. That's the first thing. Secondly, to take something from someone? I am not going to deal with the proposal put forward by the alternative, in terms of content and political terms. But you cannot say that you take something from someone on the one hand and then say that it is a free choice and that it is a common pool. I assume that what you want to give more, in this case to the fathers, is something you want to take from the common pool, that is, you want to earmark something. You don't want to take anything from anyone. You want to earmark something. But the reason...
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175721	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175724	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff for that. Yeah, that's right. I totally agree with it with compulsion, but I've addressed it. I don't see it as coercive at all. I also agree with the second, as Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff addresses the fact that you don't take anything from anyone. You share what's there. Look at our neighboring countries. In Iceland it has been done. There you have, for example. established a state fund which compensated for the pay of fathers. So it's not something that can't be done. It has been done in our neighbouring countries. So I don't understand the main shake that's over from this side to say that of course it's possible to find a model that can work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175803	You can mean one thing or the other. It is quite fair that the parties of the Folketing disagree, and it is also a discussion that we had before the elections and all that. It's all fine. I just think that the discussion should take place at a fairly reasonable level. Then I would also like to say to the point that the men just have to pull themselves together, that if we have a structural problem, it is all of us who have to pull us together. This is exactly the same as when we had a huge common struggle to guarantee women real equality. Some people also said that the individual woman just had to pull herself together, but nothing happens about that. If there is a structural problem, it must be solved jointly, and I suppose that is the case here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175847	If anyone, I was about to say, it's us politicians who have to pull us together in this area. Now we've been talking about this for so long. We have a challenge that we cannot manage to address because men do not take the maternity leave that we want them to take. As far as our equal pay is concerned, Mrs Reumert Gjerd has pointed out that it will take 111 years for us to have equal pay. The female proportion of parliamentary politicians has been 37 per cent. Since 1998. It is 17 years when we have had the same share of women politicians in parliament. The 17 years before that, from 1981 to 1998, we went from 23 to 37 per cent. Nothing's going to happen, and we're gonna stand pretty still. So it is we politicians who must pull us together and have the courage to do something in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175929	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the line of rapporteurs, and the next is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329175946	Thank you. I would like to begin, as other rapporteurs have done, by signing up to the Minister for an excellent statement. And some of what I think is really nice is all the facts that are involved, because they give a good illustration of what problems we are facing and what challenges we still have in the area of equality. Now I've said the nice things. Then I would like to quote from page 1, where I think there is a very good introduction and a reminder for all of us. It says: "Denmark is a long way off when it comes to equality between women and men. Equality is a fundamental value in society. Internationally, many countries are inspired by Danish experiences, initiatives and methods. That gives us an extra responsibility for the way we do things. I continue: "But there are still gender challenges. In order to continue to develop and promote equality in Danish society, it is crucial that many players play with and make an effort. In other words, it is a joint responsibility to promote equality, to which the Folketing, government, public authorities, social partners, companies, organisations, families and individual women and men must contribute. That is actually a fantastic central message. And there are very many nice and very fine words in the statement, but sometimes reality speaks its own concrete and harsh language. Last year we celebrated the hundredth anniversary of women's voting rights, and it was a huge victory for equality. But it should not be forgotten that at the same time, when Danish women had the right to vote, there were also voices that said that the greatest equality was when women earned their own money. It also happened massively, but only in the 1960s and 1970s. Even had I not become a teenager yet, when I swore for myself that I would earn my own money and not, as my mother did, ask my husband for money. It was emphasized when it was a pronounced position at the time in relation to education, and I quote: the girls also had to train so that they could manage if they were divorced. Quote out. That's my background. And it seems like a completely different reality than the one we know today. But then the educations also took a huge leap. Girls entered education, and they entered the labour market as never before. This happened in the next decades, i.e. in the 1960s and 1970s, and the workforce was actually increased by up to 800,000, and it is a fantastic change that happened in Danish society. Equality had speeded up, but it has not been completed. There is still an inexplicable pay gap, even when you set off maternity leave and various sectors and working hours and the kind that you do when you have to find answers to the unexplained pay gap. However, it does not help when the government abolishes the wage statistics adopted by the SR government. After all, they contributed to the fact that more people could see how wage developments took place, including in the smaller jobs. And the way forward is openness and not to remain silent about injustices. We're talking about equal pay for the same work, of course, and the government doesn't help in relation to the crucial inequality. Neither does the government with its cash aid ceiling. A single mother with two children loses about 30,000 kroner. available amount. If she is in a violent relationship, and unfortunately 29,000 women a year are still exposed to violence, then her financial situation can push her so much that she has to choose between having a fairly secure economy in an everyday climate of violence or poverty. Finally, there is the abolition of the Barsel Fund for Self-employed Persons, which is on the list of misfortunes of the government I have made. It has happened without replacing anything else, and it would have been the least you could have done. Because even if it happens on 1 April and it is not a April fool, it might have waited until another solution had been found. Now we have heard Mrs Marlene Harpsøe stand here when we had the third reading of L 88 and promise that the government at the Employment Minister would find another solution. And Mr. Bent Bøgsted, also from the Danish People's Party, should have even confirmed it in a radio broadcast that was broadcast on Easter Day, where a number of entrepreneurs who had now got into a mess and were terribly sorry. It is clear that the Radical Left will hold the Danish People's Party to that, and I am sure that there will be a whole lot of other parties too. In fact, there is a majority in the Folketing that wants a solution to this matter. I would like to conclude by addressing a development which I think it is very important to see. And it is again one of the fact boxes that inspires it. In fact, it appears that 30%. of the female and 20 per cent. of the male immigrants/ descendants do not feel that they can choose their own spouse. And that is, of course, totally unacceptable for all of us who are here and for the rest of Denmark. However, we see an encouraging sign in the fact box in relation to LOKK's advice, which is called Ethnic Youth, for in 2009 there were 440 who approached, and in 2015 there were 1,207 who approached. It is, after all, a nicely large development, and that means that more and more people are seeing that there is that possibility. Then we also have from the same fact box another example with RED-Safehouse, a safe place for young people who are in serious honour-related conflicts, and there were in 2010 155 who approached, and in 2015 there were 242. It is also a nice increase in relatively few years. With this, I would just like to emphasise that we have a great obligation in schools and educational establishments to ensure that everyone knows where it is possible to get advice and deed. And it is not only ethnic young people who must have the opportunity and knowledge of it, but also Danish children and young people who sometimes also need advice. That is also why, for example, we have given priority to the rate pool. more phone time in Children's Terms. When you then know that there is still a gap and as far back as I can remember 29 000 women who have been subjected to violence in Denmark, it is incomprehensible that we cannot do more about it. That is why I think we should start by ensuring that everyone knows where to turn and that it is at bus stops and all sorts of other places where you go. And I know that it is important for the government and the Minister to take the lead in this with his colleague in the Ministry of Education and Research. There are a lot of teachers and teachers who find it difficult to deal with it when ethnic young girls come in fear of going home. They don't know how to handle it. So there is also a need for a little more sense of it. And I think it is one of the areas of interest that it is really, really important that we do something about. But we must not only do this for ethnic young people, but also for Danish young people, who can also have similar problems, perhaps not quite the same, but who still make them have a bad life. So if this could be a conclusion to this debate on the statement, then a great deal will have been achieved and it will be quicker if we can do so with openness and information. I'm gonna sign for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329180845	Thank you. There is, for the time being, one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329180851	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there has been a lot of talk about earmarked maternity, and the rapporteur himself has also put questions to Mrs Lindahl about it. After all, the previous government also had a minister in the field of equality. Sir. Manu Saren ^ which I can now read is with the Alternative was sitting as minister for the area of the former government. Perhaps the rapporteur can tell us a little about the reason why the previous government did not carry out the earmarked maternity leave itself. When you listen to the debate down here today, you wonder. Now I do not remember the reason why the then government did not implement it itself, so perhaps the rapporteur could give a little information about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329180933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329180936	It simply happened that the government regretted what they had written in their government basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329180945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329180947	Oh. Well, it's a little interesting that the government regretted. Perhaps the rapporteur can tell us a little about which parties regretted it was. As far as I can understand today, the rapporteur for the Radicals is at least in favour of earmarked maternity. At least that was what happened in the follow-up questions to Mrs Laura Lindahl. So perhaps the rapporteur could go into the question of who it was, then, which parties it was that regretted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181016	Well, a government is a government, no matter how many parties there are in it, and it was the government's decision. I can reveal that there were a great many members of the radical parliamentary group who opposed the decision taken by the government, but they accepted it, of course, because it was the government that had taken it. That is the way life is sometimes, especially when you take responsibility. I myself am in favour of men being entitled to maternity leave as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181045	The next question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181048	Thank you. Then I think we just need to learn more whether the Radical Left has regretted that they regretted what was in the government base. And is the Radical Left today for or against earmarked maternity leave for men?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181105	Depends on who you ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181112	Well, that's honest talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181114	Does the rapporteur have anything else to add?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181117	No, I'll just blow up a bomb, and I won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181123	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the series of rapporteurs. Next is Mrs. Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181136	Now the Minister is not here, just when I would like to thank her for the statement, but then she will have to read it later: thank you for the statement. It is, in fact, a statement that presents a great many important challenges that are not just simple to solve; then it had already been done a long time ago. You may want to comment on all the things in the world, because the statement comes all the way around, but I must try to see if I can focus on any of it. The vision of the report can only be agreed: no discrimination on grounds of gender and equal opportunities for all. In the statement we are discussing, there are many proposals for action, for example. studies, mapping, information campaigns, etc., but one can ask oneself whether it really moves something. The statement contains a number of good intentions, but what about the substance and the very concrete initiatives? Is there anything moving in the right direction? When you see the government's own legislative programme, there is no bill to promote equality. On the contrary, the only actions we have seen on the part of the government are something that takes back initiatives that could promote equality. This applies to the roll-back of gender-based pay statistics and the abolition of a maternity fund for self-employed people, which I believe we have been a great deal around today. Then, together with the other bourgeois parties, the government has voted through a cash aid reform which will increase the inequality of income and opportunities already between the sexes. It particularly affects single parents, three out of four of whom are women. And violence-stricken women and women living in highly socially controlled environments, which are also in focus in this report, will have particular difficulty in meeting the requirements of the 225-hour rule. The key question is whether or not we care about equality. Is this something you see as important in a democratic society and are you willing to legislate for equality, or are you going to let it be a personal and individual matter, that is, something you have to take care of at home and at work? Men and women still have unequal conditions on the labour market. There is still no equal pay for work, although we have an equal pay law and there is an inexplicable pay difference of 4-7 per cent. In the SF, we want the pay gap to be closed both through agreements and through legislation. There must be greater transparency about wage differences in the workplace, and gender-based pay statistics are one of the ways to do so. The relationship between work and family life is also an issue of equality. There is an imbalance in the distribution of responsibilities within the family between fathers and mothers. Although the legislation allows for the sharing of the bar, the fathers end up holding a very small part of it. On average, fathers only last about one month's maternity leave and women for the remaining 10-11 months. According to the London School of Economics and the University of Copenhagen, it costs the woman 10%. of her salary for each child she receives, because of a reduced presence in the labour market and because of the hourly wage. And on average women save only 80 kroner. up to pension for every $100, men save up. It makes them poorer when they retire, and it puts them at a disadvantage in divorce. The government wants more men to take part in the bar, and calls for joint responsibility for equality in the labour market. This requires effort from several, but what responsibility will the government actually take and what expectations it has, for example. to the social partners? SF wants men to have the same right to maternity leave as women, both for the sake of children and for the sake of equality. Another key issue in the report is trafficking in human beings and prostitution, where there is an increase. The action plan places emphasis on outreach work and the fight against backers, and we can only agree with that. However, the statement does not say much about what the government will do to prevent more trade coming. 80% the victims of trafficking in human beings have been subjected to prostitution. Is there a willingness to provide protection for these vulnerable women? Will they be given free passage and residence permits to ensure that they do not just end up in the arms of the backmen? And why should it be legal to buy sex for women and thus create a paradise for the sponsors and a free market for buyers of sexual services? In the SF, we do not want a society where vulnerable women must be available for men's need for sexual satisfaction at the expense of their physical and mental health. And we want a strong focus on rehabilitation and psychological assistance for women in prostitution. I would also like to touch on violence in close relationships. It is good that projects such as "Out of Violence Shadow" and "Dialog Against Violence" have been extended; that there has been a focus on violent men; and that there is an effort in relation to stalking. We support this in the SF, and we did so in the context of the wage-pool negotiations. At the same time, we do not think it is enough to help the victim of the violence. The perpetrators and witnesses of violence, which are often children, also need help if the pattern of violence is to be broken. And we should expand the scope for help. In addition to providing opportunities for shelters, we should also make it a right to receive outpatient treatment for those who do not necessarily need protection, but help to get out of the pattern of violence. The transition from the shelter back to home can be difficult, and the risk of falling back into old patterns is great. Therefore, there should be some form of mandatory post-protection where the crisis centres do not let go of contact. The government seems to think that things are going well without legislative action. We don't share that patience with the SF. Greater political responsibility must be taken. We are not in line with equality, and equality does not come naturally. The report lists a lot of relevant issues, and the SF hopes to be called for negotiations in terms of ways of equal pay, a maternity fund for self-employed workers, a more equal distribution of maternity leave, discrimination against barren and pregnant women, better efforts in relation to violence, social control, harassment, hatefulness and everyday sexism. There are a lot of things to do. Similarly, we also hope that the government will take concrete initiatives to combat trafficking in human beings for prostitution, which effectively protect vulnerable women. But thank you for your statement. There's enough to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181827	Thank you. There is, for the time being, one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181832	Sorry, I just got a toad in my throat. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that the left has failed in the debate on violence against women and against women.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181850	No, I don't think we really do. In fact, I believe that at least SF has talked constantly about women's oppression and equality, at least all the years I have been in contact with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181907	The reason I ask is an article from January 12, 2016, where Pia Olsen Dyhr in a headline says: We have been afraid to be called racists. Under the heading, it says 'and I quote: SF President Pia Olsen Dyhr believes that the left is failing in the debate on violence and women's oppression. That is why I raised the question with the rapporteur. It is a long article and if the rapporteur has not read it, I think the rapporteur should read the article because it is exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329181942	I know that article and I know the debate as well. As I shall try to interpret it, at least what I myself think it is true that you easily end up in some polarizations in that debate. It is very difficult to have a middle point of view where one tries to nuance the debate, because either one is called racist or soft-sweet or something, and it is actually difficult to find a way in between. So that way, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182007	The next question is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182019	SF says that there is a desire for legislation in a number of these areas of equality, including gender equality. earmarked maternity, etc. etc. Then why was it that nothing was done during the period of government? I know that this may be seen as an issue of a slightly teasing nature, but I mean it sincerely. If, for a number of years now, you had the opportunity to determine policy first and to put forward legislative proposals, it is a bit surprising that you did not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182054	I can agree with that. When we helped create government foundations, it was some of the things that were important for the SF to get into that government base. I'm afraid it didn't happen. I can only regret that. This does not mean that we have changed our policy in this area. We still believe that there is a need for better maternity rights for men. We still believe that a ban on the purchase of sexual services should be advocated. We still think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182121	I assume, then, that the rapporteur from the SF is writing a series of motions for resolutions which we will then be able to deal with in this Chamber to ban buying sex, to force families to dispose of their maternity leave. It will display the totally different views of value which exist between the rapporteur's party and my own party, the Left, and I shall look forward to that. I think it is important that there are these fundamental debates, and it could actually also be fun and interesting now I can see that most of the Socialists have left the Chamber again after asking questions to my own party and the Danish People's Party, etc. And yes, I can well see that the main fighter from the Social Democratic Party is still sitting in the Chamber, but nevertheless the armies have now disappeared.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182212	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182215	After all, we are not just tabling motions for resolutions in this Chamber for someone to be shown. In other words, it is often done because there is something that you actually want to get through, and we can of course make proposals, we cannot find a majority at all, and only the SF supports that, but we will get it done. I just want to attack the last part of this about forcing someone to do something. I am very surprised that in the Left this has a lot to do with coercion. Normally, when we give citizens of this country rights, there are also certain counterclaims, and all we just say is that in this country we have the right to maternity leave with our children. We're just making the counterclaim that it has to be equal rights for both sexes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182300	Thank you. For the sake of good order, I must point out that there is one more questioner. This is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182311	Thank you. The rapporteur talks about this being a right and not an obligation, and what happens if you choose to reject the right? Who will be the victim of this right if the person concerned simply wishes to reject that right, because that is something to which we have the right? So who's gonna be the victim?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182337	In the same way as if the mother refused maternity leave, it lapses. But where we have made a mistake in Denmark was when we extended the maternity leave. There we should have said that it was to be extended to the rights of men, because then nothing had been taken from anyone; then there was a right that had been given to men. And it may upset me a little that we didn't do it, because that's what they did in Sweden, and the reason why they are so successful in their maternity scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182407	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182409	Thank you. So the rapporteur recognises that if you give fathers this right and a father wants to refuse that right, then the child will lose some time in the home, a maternity leave, because the 3 months will be lost from the total maternity leave, and so you send a 3 month younger child in the day care centre with your model than with the model that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182439	I actually believe that parents will take advantage of that right. That's one thing. The second point, as I said at the outset, is that this applies today. If the mothers say no... they just don't... then their maternity leave will lapse too. Women are not forced to go on maternity leave either. It's a right they have for them to take advantage of. It's just the same right that I think the men should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182504	Thank you. The rapporteur began his speech by stating that the Minister was not present in the Chamber. I shall state for the record that it was with the permission of the President and on behalf of nature. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329182524	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Minister and, of course, the Ministry for the preparation of this statement. The equal opportunity of women and men to unfold their potential and talent is one of the cornerstones on which we build our society. This is true in school, it is true in the labour market, and it is true in the political debate that we have also seen in the Chamber today. Fortunately, it has become a natural state for us. Equality must give the individual the freedom to choose his own path. Promoting equality in our society is a shared responsibility to which we must all contribute in order to succeed. However, it is problematic when we politicians want to force equality through, for example, special research funds for women researchers, demands for earmarked maternity leave for men, or regulations on the proportion of board posts in companies to be filled by women. Equality for us Conservatives is about equal opportunities, not being guaranteed the same end result. And the talk of quotas alone is demeaning to the female sex. For us Conservatives, there should actually be differences between the sexes. We do not want to make it a political problem that more men want to be carpenters or mechanics, while more women prefer to become nurses or hairdressers, as long as the male nurse student feels that there is room for him in nursing studies, and things are not just on women's terms and conditions, just as the female mechanic apprentice must be able to walk equally with the men in the workshop. For many years, the fight for equality has dealt with the pay gap between men and women. But the real wage gap today on the Danish labour market alone amounts to 4-7 per cent, and in 2015 it had 25 per cent. of Danish companies already an equal distribution on the boards. The debate on gender equality needs a new direction towards those who really need help with a more equal relationship. Because while we are discussing quotas for women on board, there are some of the women in Denmark who are not at all to find on the labour market, at least not to the extent they should be. In 2013, it was only 45%. of the minority women who had a job, and in December last year it emerged that minority women accounted for a total of 25 per cent. of all recipients of long-term cash benefits. We know that these women are role models in families. They have a great influence on the way their children move in life, what values they get from home, and therefore there is really a critical issue that so many of these women do not have contact with the labour market. Too many women are isolated in the home without contact with the outside world without being able to speak the Danish language. Then I have to say that when it comes to sexual rights, these women are extremely disadvantaged. We recently saw it in connection with the TV 2 documentary where Muslim women in the mosque were told not to deny their husband sex. I think that was an eye-opener for many, but it is important that, for these women too, we fight both for sexual rights and also for equality, which ensures that we have the opportunity to enter the labour market. When I talk about sexual rights, I would also like to mention another point. In many countries too in Europe, unfortunately we see LGBT people being restricted in their freedom and equal opportunity to participate actively in society. 47% of them experienced in 2012 to be personally discriminated against or harassed because of their sexual orientation. Therefore, we must strengthen the participation of these people in society, both in the labour market and in social contexts, and ensure that they are not discriminated against here. Finally, I would like to refer to prostitution. It is also a subject that has filled a little in today's debate. At Conservatives, we would like a slightly more open-minded discussion about prostitution. It is in many ways double moral that we have set up a system in Denmark where we ask the prostitutes to be registered for VAT, we ask them to pay taxes, but we will not allow them to have the same rights as others in the labour market. They have no opportunity to unite in a union. There is a ban on this because it is not considered a job to be a sex worker. There are a large number of other rights that they do not have access to, because we have legislatively arranged it in the way that we have. So although we recognise that prostitution is legal in Denmark, we do not recognise it as a profession. I also mentioned this paragraph earlier, which means that these women do not have the opportunity, for example, to hire a telephone lady, at least not to make it fully legal. There are examples of how to try to circumvent this legislation, but it should not be necessary at all. On the Conservative side, we would like to have a discussion about how we have a political desire to move more of the street prostitutes to brothels, because we know that street prostitutes are much more exposed to violence, rape and other abuses. We know that it is easier for organisations to reach women in brothels with offers, exit strategies, etc. So instead of all this for and against discussion, we would actually like a slightly more nuanced discussion on how we can help the women who are in the profession, also in a different way than by being constantly focused on their having to get out of it. Of course they must get out of it if they do not want to be there, but we also owe it to these women to accept that there are some of those who definitely want to be there. Gender equality is the foundation of our society... a democratic society in which we each have equal opportunities and rights. This is important, but we should remember to keep our eyes on the big and real issues in this area and not fall into these smaller matters, which are sometimes going to fill a lot. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183124	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two who wish to make brief comments. The first is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183132	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the Conservatives in order to address the challenge, the problem of sex work and rights. That is not what the Conservatives had been expecting or had seen coming, that is, that it should be addressed in the light of the Conservatives. But I think it is very positive, and I would be very happy to take part in further discussions in this area. But my question actually concerns something else. It is true that we may see some progress in Denmark, and the rapporteur says that we should not lose sight of the small details, but at the same time we have heard that if we are going to have equal pay, we are going to have 111 years of development. I have mentioned how the representation of women politicians is in the Danish Parliament, we have discussed this with maternity leave, so that we still do not get the men on the line, so the rapporteur agrees with me that it is as if we have stalled a little in Denmark in the area of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183232	First of all, with regard to prostitution, I would like to say that we have actually been involved in tabling motions for resolutions here in the Danish Parliament, which are supposed to seek to improve the rights of sex workers. So it is actually something that concerns us and has been doing so for a number of years. In relation to the fact that the development of equality in Denmark has stalled, it has to be said that in the last relatively few years we have had our first female prime minister and our first female chairman of the Folketing. So little news, after all, I think it's happening. We see more and more women in senior positions, and more and more women are taking high education. So I don't think it's stopped. Of course, one might always wish that development was more rapid than we see, but I do not have the feeling that it has stalled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183314	I often hear the counter-argument that we have had the first female Prime Minister, we have a female leader of one of the largest parties in our Parliament and so on, and I agree with that, but these are individual examples. If we look at it from a broad perspective, it may be women who study, among other things. in medical and dental education, but when we go out and look at who it is who gets the high positions, who it is who researches, who becomes specialists, we see that it is still the men, among other things. Because there are some other expectations for women, because these working hours in high-paid jobs may well be a little inflexible. Isn't it a problem that it doesn't break through all the way up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183354	Let us take the example of specialists. Yes, it is a problem if, when there are equally qualified men and women who want to become a specialist, women are chosen from, because it is also difficult when she has children, etc. To take care of. If that is the case, it is a huge problem. If the figures indicate that women themselves have a desire to give greater priority to the possibility of having several hours with their children rather than being in an institution, if it is therefore a woman's own wish not to become a specialist, then that is something I think we, as politicians, must have the greatest respect for, that is to say, making that choice ourselves. However, I agree with the questioner that in cases where there are two equally qualified applicants and one is elected from, because one has the feeling that it is women's job to take care of the children, it is a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183437	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183441	The Conservative rapporteur said that as a prostitute one has no right to join a union. I assume that the Conservative rapporteur believes that as a prostitute you do not have the right to be a member of an unemployment insurance fund, these are two completely different things. Is that correct? Yeah, that's how I assumed it was. There will of course be some, I believe, rather serious problems associated with what I assume Conservatives think. It's been a few years since Conservatives launched this proposal. At the same time as the TV series "Borgen" presented the same proposal, it also came from the Conservative People's Party. One of the problems is that we have to be available for the labour market. And if the Conservative People's Party wants to make being a prostitute a normal part of the labour market, it also means being available for the labour market as a prostitute. After all, however, most of us do not want prostitution for ourselves or for others or for our children or anything else, precisely because we regard it as a serious social problem. And the main task of the Folketing in this context is to protect many of the prostitutes from prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183554	It is probably in this that there is a fundamental difference between the questioner's and my political attitude towards this area, because I do not see prostitution as a serious social problem from the outset. That is if there are women who are in what does not want to be there and who are there because they do not have other options. But I was also recently at the brothel and I can allow myself to say that because it was broadcast on television, and then it is not quite as suspect and there I also spoke to women for whom it was an absolutely voluntary, independent decision to have the work that they had. Compared to this thing with the cashier, the questioner is quite right that that is what I was thinking; I regret the statement; it is true that this is complicated matter. I am also not interested in being able to be sent in an internship or a work test at a brothel, nor do I really think that one should be able to be sent in a work test at the Conservative People's Party, because it can also conflict with one's values. Nor can it be done today, as the legislation is ■ so it is possible to differentiate. We specifically proposed in the Folketing that a working group be set up with environmental connoisseurs to advise us on how we can do this in a brilliant way, so that we avoid the problems raised by the rapporteur and at the same time strengthen the rights of the sex workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183701	Let me just start by calling on the rapporteur not only to talk to the prostitutes who are on television or who have economic interests in this story coming out, but also to make sure that they talk to those who have left the profession or have burned their fingers. I think you would get a more nuanced picture of what the situation looks like if you brought both sides with you. The rapporteur says that work tests should not apply, that is to say that they should not normally be. Nor should we be able to engage in professional practice, for then it should not normally be. But should we still be at the disposal of the labour market as a prostitute?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183743	Let me start by grabbing hold of this with who you are talking to, because I would like to say to the questioner that I also met a woman who was out of the profession. That was among other things. What led me to say earlier that I would like to look at how we can move some from street prostitution to brothels, because I believe that there is much more security and security in brothels compared to standing on the streets. So I am certainly listening to those and the views that are being expressed there. In relation to how to shape this in concrete terms, I would say that not being able to be in an unemployment fund is one of many elements that puts women at a disadvantage. So that's not just what you'd have to look at in a group like this that worked on this. A solution must then be found to how to make the definition of being available for the labour market. However, as I have said, there are other jobs today that are excluded from precisely those criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183828	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183833	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand from Mrs Mette Abildgaard that the Conservative People's Party is opposed to board quotas. I would assume, then, that it is not felt that there can be any structural conditions at all that mean that today there is a significantly greater representation of men on boards than of women. So I just want to ask one simple question. Does the rapporteur think that only boards of directors are recruited on the basis of talent?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183909	It's nice to see that Enhedslisten's environmental rapporteur has become so excited about this equality debate that she throws herself into it. It's really nice. When companies recruit for their management today, companies recruit on the basis of who they think is most qualified and who can help to grow and develop your business as much as possible. You're a bad company if you do anything else. That is why I think it is absurd to imagine at all that there should be quotas for how many women should sit there. I've been on the board myself as a woman. If I knew I was sitting there on mercy because of a quota, I would feel completely worthless. That is why I say that it is demeaning for the female sex to propose women's quotas at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329183954	I just do not quite understand the basic point of view, because if you are recruited solely on the basis of talent, then the rapporteur must also think that women seem to be significantly less talented when it comes to running a board of directors, when the imbalance is as marked as it is today. Does the rapporteur not recognise the risk of recruiting in his own image? This means that men typically recruit men, and therefore there is something for which we can take responsibility politically, so as to ensure much greater equality, including on boards of directors?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184032	A company that does not recruit on the basis of who can give the most active quality to one's business is a soon-dead company, so of course a company does. It may then be when you have to look at the talent mass that has reported that you see that not so many women raise their hands and say that they would like to sit on a board of directors. We can discuss why the women don't. I think part of the explanation is that fewer women are interested in it, will prioritise time on it. That is also an honest starting point. So the recruitment must be made from the talents there are, and whether there are equal numbers of men or women there is for me to regard as irrelevant as long as you have the opportunity to volunteer, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184111	Next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184117	I thought we might have had the debate on prostitution, because I was at the same brothel as you. So I wasn't really going to say anything, but then I couldn't help it anyway. It is basically about whether you regard prostitution as a job or as a social problem and a problem of equality and what you believe to work, if prostitutes are to be protected from oppression and abuse and, moreover, whether you want a society with more or less prostitution. I think it is quite thought-provoking that quite a lot of the men who go to prostitutes have been investigated, actually have no idea whether the woman they go to has been dealt with or not acted upon. So, first of all, I would like to hear from the rapporteur: how does the rapporteur want to make sure that, as a man, he knows that the woman he seeks has actually chosen it voluntarily? And then I'm gonna ask you another question. If we consider this to be a job I do not; I consider it a social problem I would note that we also have the Labour Inspectorate. How is the Factory Inspectorate supposed to make sure that exactly this isn't harmful to the body and soul of those who are in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184237	I believe I have now seen figures from the SFI which indicate that Danish men actually care quite much about whether or not women have acted, but I do not remember exactly what study it is. I would like to say that I find it exciting to see what they have done in, I think it is in the Netherlands and New Zealand. Here we have introduced such a certification system of a kind that you can get at, for example, a brothel, so you can say: OK, this is a place where health is controlled. There's a health check being made by the women. This is a place where exit strategies are known, because it is also a major problem in the prostitution environment today, where too few of the women know about the exit strategies that exist. You could put up some criteria and say, OK, depending on how you live up to these things, we can give some kind of stamping or marking or recognition of this brothel. It will give men the opportunity to go somewhere where they know there are arranged relationships, and I think that is an exciting way of thinking. I haven't developed this at all to the end, but I've looked at the models you have in other countries and think it's interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184347	Now the Parliamentary Chamber is not exactly the place where you have to trombone what is going on in a brothel, but I can't stop asking questions anyway. The people who work with prostitutes who have come out of prostitution, even though they have worked on brothels, describe great physical and psychological damage. How will the rapporteur make sure that jobs and the amount of work, etc. is regulated in accordance with the Working Conditions Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184420	I have no answer to that myself, because I have not been in that environment and I have not worked in it. However, the women I have spoken to have pointed out examples of how to make the regulation, how to go in and take account of women. That is why we need to have a group set up which can make a qualified choice as to how to improve the working conditions of these women. There is no prospect that prostitution will be banned for many years to come. There is simply no political majority in favour of this, so let us focus a little on how we can improve the rights and conditions of these women.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184453	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329184512	Thank you. Thank you for a very good debate, I would like to say. I think we've gone a long way. When I look back at some of the debates that have been going on about gender equality statements over the past few years, I think we have actually reached a much wider range and also more in depth than I have seen that we have most often arrived. In October last year, the 22-year-old Ditte Brink Kammersgaard was named one of Denmark's best mechanic apprentices. She was one woman among the recipients of the prize and one of the few women on mechanic training. Ditte had largely gone against the flow when she chose education, for it takes today in her woman to become a mechanic, just as it takes her husband to become a crèche teacher. I would never dream of making choices for the young. I would never dream of saying that girls should always choose one type of education or boys should go for what has traditionally been girl education. I think it is important that we keep an eye on the fact that there are still some subjects that special boys or girls choose, not necessarily because they could not dream of a career in the other subject, but because they do not feel at home in the studies because they have no role models to reflect in. When we, on the part of the government and the Left, stress that equality is very much about freedoms, rights and opportunities, then it is also about ensuring that individuals, whether it be about educational choices, life choices, partner for life or a number of other areas, have the opportunity to make the choices that suit the individual. Whether you're a girl or a boy, you shouldn't be the one that inhibits your options and hampers your choices in life. Equality is a central right of freedom in our society. It is about everyone having equal opportunities to unfold their potentials and talents like Ditte, as I mentioned before. All resources must be at stake and no one should be discriminated against on the basis of their gender. Equality does not mean that we should be the same. That doesn't mean we have to get fifty-fifty distribution of everything. In my universe equality rhymes not with coercion and regulation, but with freedoms and opportunities. The key point is that equality offers freedoms and opportunities for the individual: freedom to choose an unconventional education, to go part-time as a man to be with his children or to get to the top of business as a woman. Equality is also about the right to decide over one's own body and life. The right to have a life free from violence, free from stalking, free from being traded for exploitation in another country, freedom to marry whoever you want. Equality is basically to show respect for each other and to ensure that men and women are equally worthless. As the debate today has also shown, and as several rapporteurs have also said, unfortunately in parts of Danish society we find that the equal value of men and women, the right to choose one's own partner for life, the right, of course, to live a life without violence or without social control, is unfortunately not the reality of certain people in Danish society. We have parallel societies in some places in the country where women have no right to choose the partner they want. For that matter, boys do not necessarily have the right to choose the partner they want to spend their lives with. Women do not have the opportunity to choose education, get a job, be active in society, both imams and their men oppress them, and the family imposes conventions and rules which do not correspond to the rules and freedoms we have in society, but which are largely driven by norms and culture, social control and parallel societies. I believe that the events in Cologne New Year's Night for a lot of people were a wakeup call compared to the reverse of the large migratory flows we are seeing in Europe at the moment. We need to be extremely aware that when there are many people coming to our society and to Europe, we also need to insist that the great progress and the objectives we have achieved in the area of equality are not being undermined. We will not accept retrograde steps explained or explained away from religion, culture, social background or anything else. Now many of the rapporteurs were in New York just before Easter to the United Nations Women's Commission and the Women's Commission meeting. Perhaps they also helped to remember us in many ways, both how far we have come in Denmark, how much we are a pioneer country in the field of equality, but also how many battles need to continue at global level to ensure equality. Somehow it also helped to emphasize how wonderful it is to live in a society like the Danish one, where, whether you are called Jens or Jette, you are born equal and have the same opportunities and rights in our society. That is why we must also insist that this also applies, be it Mohammed or Sahima. There are equal opportunities and equal rights in Danish society. That is why we also want the government to ensure that people who come here, even when they come to the asylum centres, are informed about what equality is in Denmark. What are these rights, what are these values, what kind of culture, what kind of expectations do we have of newcomers? It is basic information about equality and the freedoms that apply in the country, but it is also to highlight that here you have both the right to choose the partner you want for life, but also the opportunity to choose the education you want, and getting a job is a very good way to integrate into Danish society. Being active in the Danish culture of association, whether you are a boy or a girl, is a very important place to create friendships and create some of the networks that help to integrate you into Danish society. We must never accept abuses and abuses explained away on the basis of religion or on the basis of culture. That is why it is important that we stand together to insist on equality and the values, including in these years when many people come to our country. Violations and abuse are never women's fault. All explanations about culture and ethnicity or demands for change in behaviour for women are simple attempts not to want to take absolute and complete exception to any abuse against women. Unfortunately, there are still thousands of women in Denmark who live with violence in everyday life, who have violence in the family and close relationships. It is violence that also affects their children. That is why we have also chosen from the government to step up our efforts and refocus some of the resources in the violence action plan, so that we have more focused and effective efforts to combat violence. We also chose to step up efforts to combat lovers' violence, because if we are to break the language of violence and ensure that men and women do not take violence into close relationships and relationships, then we also have to deal with it when it is the one who is a little innocent flirt among young people who then develop into social control and possessism in matters of what one's boyfriend may or may not do. It's also about stalking. We have up to 130 000 Danes who are subjected to stalking each year, and it has to be said that women are twice as likely to be subjected to stalking as men. This is why the government has taken a number of initiatives in the field of stalking, because stalking also, as a form of violence, is helping to destroy lives and people's ability to live the life they want. The Minister of Justice and the government also took an initiative earlier this year in the field of rape, because we can still see that when it comes to combating rape and ensuring that victims have proper legal certainty, there are still places where we can improve. It is not acceptable for a young girl to come and report a rape, the first of which is faced with a question of what clothes she was wearing. That is why we also need, and this is also what we are doing with the perspective and action plan and with the concrete initiatives taken by the government, to address the places where we have real equality problems still in our society. The government has also chosen to strengthen its efforts towards victims of trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, the previous government cut down on efforts to combat trafficking in human beings. We have chosen to strengthen the outreach work for victims dealt with forced labour and prostitution. We have also chosen to ensure that the outreach work is again nationwide and more uniform across the country. Because we will not accept the kind of modern slavery that human trafficking is. Everyone has the right to control his own body and his own life. This also applies to the people who are being dealt with here. We must take action against the cynical backers who exploit unhappy souls every day, both for prostitution, but also for forced labour and financial crime. As Minister of Education, several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned this, I have also addressed some of the gender differences and gender equality challenges in the field of school and education. Young people's educational choices remain very gender-based, where you can see that in schools the boys are professionally lagging behind, so we can see that very many of the girls are miserable and struggling with problems of well-being and self-esteem. We must ensure that both boys and girls have equal opportunities, including at school. This applies in professional terms, it applies to well-being. It shouldn't be the case that our primary school's academic results, or whether you're thriving, depend on whether you're Oliver or you're called Olivia. It must be the case that there is an equal opportunity as a child to achieve the goals and have the potentials and dreams that you have. There are some rapporteurs who, like us, have suggested that we on the part of the government will decide how families should distribute the bar. We don't want to. We do not want that in any way. We believe that it is up to the individual family to decide with themselves how to distribute the bar, but we can see from studies that a great many men, despite having the opportunities today, point out that they (1) do not know what rights they have and (2) that they really want to take more maternity leave than what they end up with, among other things. because there is a labour market culture which sometimes means that there is not as much focus on what male employees' maternity conditions look like compared to those of female employees. I think we should be ready to take that discussion in good dialogue with business and the social partners on how we can help to ensure that the choices of each family are really free and not determined by the lack of knowledge about their rights and opportunities, or by the lack of understanding that you actually have the rights and opportunities to decide as a family for yourself how to prioritise and how to divide the bars between you. There is no need for legislation in any way, and I believe that we must say that there may well be a need for a boost both to the workplace culture that may be in some places, but also to a boost for men to engage more in the important part of being a father and to engage in the first part of your child's lifetime. We are a pioneering country in the field of equality, and Denmark must continue to make its mark globally. We need to push on developments. We must demand some of the same things we demand at home, including on the international stage. We must insist that equality and women's rights should be on the international agenda. The creation of global growth and development also requires that the half of the population that is oppressed in a number of countries, namely women, be given a place equal to that of men. That is why I and the government are very proud that Denmark is hosting two important international events this May: Women Deliver, the largest conference on women's rights in the world, and also the IDAHO Forum, which focuses on women's rights in the world. The rights of homosexuals. Because it is important that we also help to take the lead on us to show what we have done in Denmark, what we continue to do, why are we never going to accept inequality between men and women? Both of these major international events are opened up by the Crown Princess, and a large number of ministers from Denmark and abroad will participate, EU institutions and organisations and a large number of players from both Denmark and abroad. I also hope that the parliamentary rapporteurs will engage in the events and engage in the activities of the IDAHO Forum and the Women Deliver Conference, because I really think that it is also an important signal to take the debate we had today to send out the clear signal that in Denmark equality is something we agree on. Yes, there may be nuance differences, but basically we agree that equality and the equal value of men and women are the starting point for the society that we have. For me and for the government, equality is a struggle for freedom and rights. It is global, and it is in Denmark. We must safeguard equality and we must continue to work to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities to exploit their potential and freedom to choose the life they want to live. The government is taking the lead in this, and with this perspective and action plan we have also set out the priorities for the coming year. But the government cannot and must not lift the gender equality agenda alone. For equality is a shared responsibility. There is a need for many people to push forward. This applies to the individual girl and boy, man and woman, but it also applies to families, businesses, educational institutions and organisations and to us as politicians. So when the SF's rapporteur says that the government just wants to make equality the kind of thing that the individual has to mess with, I can say no. As we have also written in the perspective and action plan, the fight for equality remains a joint struggle. It's also a fight the government would like to take. Thank you for the good comments. I look forward to future cooperation in the field of equal opportunities, and I hope that the commitment that has been made in this Chamber today will also be a characteristic of the initiatives we will have to take in the future to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the area of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190048	It is too early to say thank you for the comments, because there are a number of comments and questions, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190056	First of all, thank you for the words about the problem of maternity, i.e. the problem of more fathers wanting to take more leave, but where there are therefore some structures which prevent fathers from doing so. I would say that we in the Social Democratic Party are generally ready to play a constructive role. I think that was also reflected in my rapporteur's speech. There are some places where we simply disagree with the government and will criticise it, but there are also some places where we would like to play a very constructive role. This is one of the areas. We want to help find some models, some reflections, some measures that can strengthen the opportunities and rights of fathers without restricting freedom. I think there is a good chance of doing so. It just requires that we sit together and are willing to try to agree on it. I just have a specific question. There is so much to talk about, but there is a large majority in the Danish Parliament who, on 27 January, expressed the wish for a maternity fund for self-employed people. There is a majority again today who says so. What are the considerations of the Minister in this regard, both in terms of both how to ensure better opportunities for self-employed people to have maternity leave and how to promote more female entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190210	When it comes to government policy in the whole area of independence and entrepreneurship, we want more self-employed and entrepreneurs. This applies to both more men and more women who have the courage to start their own business. If we look at some of the large Danish companies that help create growth and jobs in Denmark today, we will see that they have often started with a single man or woman and a good idea and built up from there. We need more people who dare take that leap and let their ideas and what they believe in get air under their wings and become businesses. Does this mean that we have no focus whatsoever on the fact that there may be differences in what challenges male and female entrepreneurs face? No, of course we do. All the studies also point to this, and that is also what the Minister for Employment said when dealing with the bill: we are well aware that there may be different challenges, and we have also taken initiatives in this area. Does this mean that we believe that the previous government's model on the maternity fund was right? No, it doesn't. It was a mess that included, and I think the Socialists themselves have acknowledged this, too many, who had nothing to do with self-employed people. It was pensioners who did some work for the neighbours, and it was young students who participated in medical trials in hospitals that were suddenly part of a maternity fund. Therefore, significant changes had to be made and the fund set aside, such as: the Socialist-led government had introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190339	What the government experienced on 27 January, and what the government is seeing again today, is, in fact, a political majority who wants something to happen in that area, but also an outstretched hand from the Danish People's Party, from the whole red block, which would like to be called for negotiations and to make proposals on how we can solve this problem together. We in the Social Democratic Party are very open to whether we could create a different maternity fund or do something quite different or something quite different that could solve some of these problems. We just can't be satisfied that all of us and the government are pretending that this problem is going away by itself. Then I must not just call on the Minister not to answer an outstretched hand with a fistfistfight, but to welcome the fact that we are inviting ourselves to negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190431	I believe, basically, that I myself, as a minister and other ministers, always welcome parties that are constructive. I see neither what the rapporteur of the Left nor what I myself have said as a fistfistfight, but we can look differently at the effects of the maternity fund created by the previous government. We thought it was a mess. We thought it was pretty problematically screwed up. That is why we have chosen to abolish it in its present form, but that does not mean that we do not recognise that there can be challenges, among others. in relation to female entrepreneurs. The Minister for Employment has also said this in this Chamber, and the Minister has also set work in motion in relation to how we can actually ensure not only more women but more entrepreneurs in Denmark in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190513	The almost questioner is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190517	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his speech and indeed also for many of the good initiatives in the statement. I was not able to do that in my rapporteur's speech, but I think there are a great many good things, among others. The efforts against lovers' violence and the efforts under the auspices of the Nordic Council against online sexism. So it is appropriate to thank you for the good initiatives that are there. The Minister again addressed the challenge of some refugees and immigrants coming to Denmark who have some other standards in terms of equality and gender perception. After all, in my own rapporteur's speech, I addressed the need for us to involve civil society in the task of educating the new dancers who may also need to learn about our standards. I would like to know what the Minister's answer to that is. Does the Minister agree with me that there is also a need to involve civil society, in other words Danish citizens, in this task, and if so, how will it be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190624	We are already doing so, and we will continue to do so. If you look at the wagering pool project, which I also believe the Alternative helped to make money available, you can see that it is precisely a matter of ensuring that the strong Danish civil society is linked up to the people who come here, both now and in the future, in order to ensure good integration into Danish society. There's just one area where I don't want to compromise. I was really a little sad about what the Alternative's rapporteur said, but hopefully I did not mean in that way: our own values were not so firm, because Danish men did not necessarily go to the same extent as women went home with their children, so now we should also be careful not to send a signal that we wanted something for people who came here. I think we should be very clear in the language of people who come here about the fact that we will not accept violence against women, that we will not accept social control, that we will basically not accept that women are worth less than men. And we might as well do that from the first day people arrive here without in any way cast doubt on what we stand for ourselves and what equal opportunities objectives have been achieved over time in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190744	I think the Minister has misunderstood me. I was not trying to legitimise or defend, I was trying to nuance by pointing out that one thing is that you distance yourself from something that is quite fine, but we must also do so, but at the same time try to understand what is behind some of the actions that, for example, have been carried out. Some new dancers have advocated it. So it was just a nuance of it. In fact, my second question would like to address something the Minister said in his speech. She said that equality is also about the right to decide its own body. We fully agree with that, and in this context I would very much like to ask the Minister's position that, when they join the field and wish to change genders, transpersonals must go through a very long and very humiliating psychiatric investigation, where they are asked very close questions, among other things. about their sexual preferences. Does the Minister think that we are fulfilling our duty of equality as a society when we allow transsexuals to go through such a psychiatric humiliating course?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190853	I know that this is a dialogue that the parties have with my colleague, the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Elderly, and that is also where it is rightfully part of. For the Ministry of Gender Equality is, after all, a Ministry of Culture and has a coordinating task, but it is not the case that it does not mean that there is no gender equality discussion to take place in the individual ministries. I know that Denmark has been working under the previous, past and present governments to change the definitions contained in the WHO in relation to this, which is probably the source of some of the problems referred to by the rapporteur. And that is another expression of the fact that, in this area too, work is in fact being done by the Danish side to influence the positions of international organisations on issues relating to equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190940	The next question is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329190944	Thank you very much. The Minister mentions in his speech that it is important for the Minister to ensure equal rights, whether you are called Jette or you are called Jens. But is it not true that if now Jette and Jens have a child, Jette and Jens do not have the same rights, because Jette, who has given birth and is the mother of the child, has significantly better rights compared to maternity leave than Jens, who is a father, and does not the Minister think that it is reasonable to guarantee equal rights for both parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191023	Well, on the part of the government, we do not want legislation on everything, and I can hear what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is referring to, and that is, if we do not have to introduce earmarked maternity in Denmark. The answer is no on our part. We do not want an earmarked maternity leave for the fathers. We believe that it is up to the families themselves to find out how they distribute the bar. And it can be said that freedom is there today for the man to take more maternity leave than the woman can. So I cannot actually follow the argument that there should be less freedom for the man in relation to being able to take part of the bar, which is what is decided in the individual family, in addition to the two weeks and the weeks that are then women, according to the international legislation we have in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191107	That's a fair point of view. Then I just don't think you should say that you think there should be equal rights, whether the parent is Jette or Jens, when you are not in favour of equal rights. It's not fair to individualize this question. The problem is, by guaranteeing a right, you don't force anyone to do anything. You acknowledge that there may be some structural barriers, among others. in the labour market, which can make men take significantly shorter maternity leave, and you do not have to look far away from Denmark to see that when earmarked maternity is introduced, fathers go much more on maternity leave because it becomes more natural for them to go to their employer and ask for permission to go on maternity leave and take advantage of the right we as a society have given them, because we believe that equal rights for both parents are actually a fundamental value in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191204	We do not want an earmarked maternity leave for men on the part of the government. In this area, we have a policy, it is the same policy that we had before we came to government. And if the Enhedslisten and other parties in this Chamber, who have made the request today, wanted it, then it could have been carried out under the previous government where the majority was held. You didn't. We do not want earmarked maternity leave for men, and I do not believe that it is in any way an expression of the fact that we do not want equal rights. We just think that it is the family that should decide for themselves how to distribute maternity leave, and that freedom lies with the families and not with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur or other rapporteurs here in the Parliamentary Chamber. In the extreme, this also means for a number of families that there would then be less maternity leave that was held with the child, because we can see that there will also be families who do not want to distribute it in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191251	The next question is Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191256	In the statement, the Minister writes that the joint approach to the challenges of the labour market in relation to women in management and father's leave is that it requires action from several fronts, including government, social partners, etc. Does the Minister consider that a dialogue with business on leave for fathers is sufficient, or will the Minister initiate other initiatives and initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191328	In fact, I believe that we can go a very long way along the road of volunteering, and what applies to a great many progress towards equality is also that the various actors take responsibility. In relation to guaranteeing the ultimate freedom of families to decide for themselves also, it is true that there must also be support from employers in relation to both male and female employees; this is true in relation to initiatives to promote women in management. It was when my party was in government last time that we in Denmark took the first initiatives with Charter for more women in management, Operation chain reaction and a number of voluntary initiatives in relation to business that really focused on this. So, yes, I believe that we can go a long way by volunteering, and I also think that this gives us a lot more grounded effort than when we think that we can regulate ourselves out of it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191415	That's fair enough. I would just like to know what efforts the Minister thinks the social partners should initiate when she writes that it requires efforts on several fronts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191431	Well, there isn't one bet. In other words, if we look at the initiative "Charter for more women in management," which today has become the Danish model, it is not the case that the recruitment strategy of one company needs to be similar to that of the neighbouring company. We can see that a big company like LEGO has a CEO • I think it was in the autumn, or it was earlier this year • that goes out and says that we are suddenly aware that if we are to recruit the very best, i.e. if we are to secure the bottom line of our company, we must be aware that there must be something else in the payroll for men than there must be for female employees. That's taking responsibility. It is, of course, that you see as a company that this is necessary in order to recruit the best. I think you can do that much better if you take responsibility locally than if we believe that we can standardise and legislate for everything in here by Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191521	The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191525	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I do not think I have ever had such a long debate in a debate on a statement. It is true that the government has made some efforts. What I sometimes lack, regardless of which government sits, is that one also remembers that many of these things have actually been agreed together, among other things. funds are also provided from the rate pool for men in crisis and also in the case of stalking. Sometimes I feel that no matter what government sits, it takes all the credit for its efforts. What I would like to ask is in connection with the articles that have been in the Politiken on trade in prostitutes, among others. Pressed prostitutes are expanding the territory. It is one of the headlines: Does the Minister know whether there has been an increase in the trafficking of women, also in relation to the writing that has been in the Politiken about it, and what is the reason why there have been so many women who are now, it can be said, increasing the territory? I know that the Minister has read the articles, so I assume that the Minister can answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191643	But we do have an action plan to combat trafficking in human beings. We do, because it is modern slavery, where people are exploited in the worst way by some backers who earn money from it. Trade for prostitution, which has become very visible in the Copenhagen street picture, if you are to take the articles referred to, is just one of the forms of trafficking that we must combat. And what I, as a minister and as a government, have taken the initiative to do, after all, is to allocate additional funds to the action plan. Among other things: HopeNow, which is also quoted in the newspaper article, has just been given money to do more outreach work in relation to escorts, private discus sion and some of the prostitution environment that we can see is growing and where we can see that the sponsors have been quicker than both authorities and NGOs to actually find out how to avoid focusing. Unfortunately, the previous government cut down. There we have upgraded the effort, and we are doing so because we should not accept the trade of people to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191740	I fully agree with that. These bets need to be followed up. Do they work, and how far do you get? The report then says that a mid-term review will be launched. Perhaps the Minister can tell us when the mid-term review will come and about the time perspective for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191801	I cannot tell you exactly when the mid-term review will come. It comes in the middle of this four-year action plan period, but what I can say is that in the autumn and last summer I took the initiative to evaluate Pro West, for which the previous government had withdrawn the support, which did the outreach work in relation to victims of trafficking in human beings in southern Jutland or from Central Zealand and down and on Funen, and where we have now found more funds to ensure their work also forward-looking. We have also launched an evaluation of the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings. We do this because it is important that we also keep ensuring that the efforts and initiatives we are taking are also effective. And may I not just say, because I did not reply to that in the last round: I would like to credit all the parties involved in lifting the responsibility, including the Danish People's Party. In relation to concrete stalking, it was a finance agreement made by the previous government with the VK government, and therefore the coinage has taken place among the five parties and not among a wider part of the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191859	The next question is Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329191905	Thank you. Today, it can be said that there is a majority in the Folketing that wants a new system of maternity leave for self-employed people. It could also do so more than 2 months ago under L 88. To a section 20 question specifically on this subject to the Minister for Employment, the Minister for Employment answers that there is ongoing dialogue between three ministries, namely the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Business and Growth and the Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality. What I would like to ask is what is going on with that dialogue. What's the schedule? Do you work with a commission? And last but not least, now that we have heard the Danish People's Party today directly call for the government to call for negotiations, does the government plan to call for negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192012	I can confirm that there is an inter-ministerial working group, as the Minister for Employment has also said, just as this government has a desire not only to have more women entrepreneurs, but more entrepreneurs in general in our society. However, since the Socialist rapporteur points out that today there is a majority in the House who agrees on what a new maternity fund should look like, could the rapporteur perhaps not just tell us what such a model looks like, because I have not heard that? I have not heard that there is a majority saying what a model looks like, but I have heard, including from my own party, that we need to focus on how to ensure good conditions for entrepreneurs as well. So what's the model look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192054	Like the Danish People's Party, I would urge the Minister to convene negotiations. I may have asked a broad question when I asked about the timetable and the Commission, but I also asked about negotiations, and the Minister can answer yes or no if you want to call for negotiations. So I ask again: does the Minister wish to call for negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192118	I think that the rapporteur should ask the Minister for Employment because it is a draft law that is being negotiated in the area of the Minister for Employment. Nor do I assume that the Socialists are asking the environmental rapporteur whether negotiations on health should be convened. The government has initiated in-service work in this area. We have done so because we have a desire to strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurs, including women entrepreneurs. We have listened to what has been said. We've been listening, among other things. What the Danish People's Party has said, but I think that the Social Democrats' rapporteur should take the dialogue with the Minister for Employment if you want to have a dialogue about what the further progress should be in relation to the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192200	The last question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192209	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. It has been an exciting debate to follow here today. I wasn't supposed to sit down here at all, and that's the joy of being in the Folketing. I have such a slightly more general question for the government's work on equality, because, as the Minister himself said in her reply to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, equality is not something that only takes place in the Ministry of Gender Equality. This is also something that is being worked on in the other ministries. So could the Minister reveal a little bit of what the plans are for working perhaps a little more systematically on equality in the government, including in the other ministries of the Council of Ministers? I am thinking in particular of the whole equal opportunities assessment, which has sometimes lagged a little behind in the legislative work in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192246	Yeah, I'd like that. We have a very strong cooperation among government ministers, across and together. If you look at the initiatives in relation to public communications it has been mentioned earlier in today's debate that the agreement, as communicated by the tax minister, was also that a study has now been launched on the payment of child benefit. In relation to communication from the public to both parents, there is a work that goes across a large number of ministries, but of course also the National Association of Municipalities, the Digitalisation Board and others. So we work very much across the board. Then we have the initiatives to combat stalking, initiatives that the Minister of Justice and myself have jointly launched, and that will be the case not only for a resort area but also for a cross-border approach. In relation to gender equality assessments, it is after all the Ministry of Equal Opportunities which each year, together with the individual ministries of the Council of Ministers, evaluates which legislative proposals are to be drawn up for gender equality assessment. This is being done in the individual ministries, and this is being followed up. I think it is important that gender equality should not be assessed simply in order to assess gender equality. In other words, if a directive of a purely technical nature is implemented, I do not think it should be used to assess equality. That is why we are doing this screening of which legislative proposals are relevant, and if I look down on the list of legislative proposals that have been tabled and where gender equality assessments have also been carried out, I think that makes a great deal of sense. I think they are also being implemented in relevant areas. It is not always the case that we agree whether or not it should have consequences. Now there are some who have highlighted the ceiling on cash benefits here today. Yes, there are more women that we need to enter the labour market. We can also see that among other things. migrant women are less well represented in the labour market, but precisely for this reason we believe that the ceiling on cash benefits is important in terms of also ensuring an economic incentive. So the assessment of equality is not, of course, the same as the fact that we then agree on what conclusions should subsequently be drawn politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192433	We take the very last question from the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192436	Thank you, and I fully agree with the Minister on that, of course. It was not really a question of agreeing or disagreeing. I was just curious to know how seriously the Minister takes all these gender assessment cases because there have been problems in the past. It wasn't under this government. Now, in general, I am talking about the last ten years, when I have been following the debate on equality, including politically. But I am glad to hear that the Minister takes these gender assessments seriously, because that is of course very important. There is legislation that does not necessarily appear to be an equal opportunities area, but which can have consequences that are important to take on board. So it's just a receipt to the minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192518	Thank you. I think that is an important point, and that is also one of the points we have tried to make in the perspective and action plan in some of the fact boxes. I have also had the pleasure of visiting the City of Copenhagen, who found out that their cancer rehabilitation initiatives didn't even talk to the men, that they actually just said: "Whoa, now I've had enough of the care and health care stuff rid me of it. And by reshuffling their cancer rehabilitation efforts, they suddenly got some men on some rehabilitation courses that had otherwise run screaming away. It's important that you have that perspective. We also mention the example of cash aid recipients who find that there is talk of CV and job search in conversations at the job centre in a specific municipality, where, after cooperation, it was found that there was a marked difference in the targeted nature of the interviews with male job seekers and female job seekers. So, yes, there may be areas, also in the municipalities and regions and elsewhere where there may be a need to think straight: are we doing something because we have always done it, or are we really doing it because we are aware that we must be targeted all and both genders in our communication?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192623	Then we say thank you to the Minister and I think it is perhaps appropriate to thank everyone for a very long and very strenuous effort in the very debate on R 10. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192648	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 March 2016. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who justifies the request now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192705	Thank you, sir. President. On 3 December 2015, as you know, the Danes went to the ballot boxes to vote on Denmark's reservation of law. Almost 54 percent. of the Danes voted against lifting the reservation and thereby leaving the competence to surrender sovereignty in the field of justice to a majority at Christiansborg. The Danes thus once again cemented that there is a massive opposition to further EU integration. Changing governments have been aware since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon that there was no challenge for Denmark in relation to continued membership of Europol when Europol became supranational. In the meantime, however, all governments have failed to ensure that Denmark continues to become a member of Europol, but instead expected Europol to be the lever needed to secure the Danes' agreement to abolish the legal reservation. As you know, this did not succeed, which is why it is now time to move on from there. It has now been a long time since we voted on the reservation of the law, and also since we tabled this question. We in the Danish People's Party have had a great deal of sympathy for the fact that after a heated election campaign the government could not suddenly jump out of line with a fixed and final agreement on a Danish parallel agreement on Europol, but we must also say that now it is gradually beginning to be time for something to happen. That is why this question comes at the right time and we look forward to hearing what the Minister can tell us about the forthcoming process towards the conclusion of an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192853	Yes, and it is precisely the Minister who now has the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329192859	On 3 December 2015, as I said, a referendum was held on whether Denmark should transform its current legal reservation into an electoral system in which Denmark could choose on a case-by-case basis which legal acts Denmark wanted to participate in. I am not going to go into detail here today in this debate about what a transformation of the legal reservation would have given of opportunities for the Danish Government in the legal field. We have had that debate and, as far as I remember, we have had quite thorough discussions with regard to the legislative proposal L 29. I should just like to say here, which is not a great surprise, that the referendum ended with a majority of the Danes not being able to add, however, that, to me, the question of the transformation of the legal reservation was not a question of more EU, but a question of Denmark having the right to choose which parts of the European Union we want to be in, and that the fact that we received a 'no' means that in some areas we stand to cooperate less with the other EU countries, perhaps even in some of the areas where we most need a common European response to the challenges of time. In the period before and after the referendum, it has become apparent that the government and the other parties in this Chamber are all of the opinion that what the Danes voted against was not Europol, but the context of that. It was the question of the scope of the transformation of the reservation and the possibilities it would offer in order to be able to choose other things. That was the question of the other 22 specific acts, etc. etc. However, because there was very clear support for the fact that, regardless of the 'no' vote in the referendum, the Danes had not said no to Europol, the Prime Minister contacted the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council on the evening of the vote to inform them of the outcome of the vote. This was followed up by a meeting of the Prime Minister, the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council as early as the week after the referendum. At home there have also been a large number of political contacts to find a solution to how to move forward. The Prime Minister has had bilateral meetings with all parties; three party leader meetings have been held and so far these meetings have resulted in an agreement to request a parallel agreement with Europol. This was the discussion that took place during the referendum itself, namely whether converting the reservation into an electoral system or seeking a parallel agreement was the best way for Denmark to maintain our cooperation and participation in Europol. As there was agreement to request a parallel agreement, we did so on 20 January 2016. There is still no agreement as to whether we in Denmark should ask for parallel agreements in other courts in the field of cross-border crime prevention. It could be the so-called PNR, i.e. a passenger register of air travellers to Europe; it could be Eurojust; it could be the search warrant. It is all three pieces of legislation that are important for the work of the police. In particular, I think it is a shame, given these days and the importance that a PNR register would have as an important tool in the fight against terrorism, that we do not have the opportunity to choose for ourselves here in the Folketing whether or not we want to participate in a PNR register. But this will be one of the issues on which we need to have a thorough discussion, in other words whether we should seek a form of participation in the future, a kind of parallel agreement in that area too. Among other things: Therefore, on 11 February, I held a meeting with the Minister of Justice and the EU rapporteurs on this issue. I do not think it is an exaggeration to say that there was no clear direction or clear conclusion as to what might be desired in relation to the question of further parallel agreements. We therefore agreed that the parties should have more information about the acts and that we should then hold a new meeting. We also agreed that we would go on a joint study trip to Brussels to talk with the Commission, with the European Parliament, with the specific key people who are there. That is why we had planned a trip here earlier in March, which unfortunately had to be cancelled. This was because some of the key people with whom we had to meet in order to have the relevant gravity in such a meeting were engaged in dealing with the refugee and migration crisis that Europe has been in and where some of the same people have been crucial to the negotiations that have taken place, both within the EU circle and also with external partners. I would very much like to return to you with a new invitation as soon as possible, because I think it is important that we take such a trip together, so that we have a common reference basis, get a joint presentation and also jointly get presented what the Danish position is, so it is not just the government's position, but positions that cover the Danish Parliament's parties. Once we have been in Brussels, we need to follow up quickly at home and discuss the other pieces of legislation. So when the trip to Brussels is in place and complete, I will come back with an invitation for a closer discussion. I hope that the parties will then be in a situation where they can come a little closer to clear reports, clear positions, in relation to what they might think of any other legal acts, for which it may also be necessary to apply for a parallel agreement. I would like to say quite quietly that we in the government have made it clear throughout the process that parallel agreements are not something you can just pull in an EU machine. This requires the Commission's approval, it requires the approval of the European Parliament, and it requires the approval of the other 27 Member States. The experience we have in this area and we have of course several times sought, sometimes received approval, sometimes received refusal of parallel agreements • shows that such an application takes time and that our wish is not always met. The second thing we know is that, from the outset, the government has made it clear that the message from Brussels is that a parallel agreement cannot be negotiated into a legal act until the act is finally adopted. And that means that the answer to the question, whether we could not have just started a discussion on a parallel agreement with Europol something earlier, is that we could not do so until Europol had finally been adopted. Now it has finally been adopted by the Council of Ministers; it must then be confirmed by the European Parliament, and I assume it will be. But others present with more experience from the European Parliament than I can perhaps say whether it is likely to be confirmed. I think it will be confirmed and thus adopted. Only after that has happened will we have the legal basis on which we can start to make the very formal steps that need to be taken by applying for a parallel agreement, by clarifying the position of the Commission, the Council, Parliament and the EU countries on whether they want to make a parallel agreement, and then starting the negotiations themselves on it. This means that we do not actually have much time to get a parallel agreement in place. That does not mean that we have given it up in any way. We will work even hard and determined to ensure that Denmark is also part of Europol after May 2017. It will be in the interest of the Danes and it will be in everyone's interest. I therefore hope that everyone in this Chamber will be helpful in the process that is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329193758	Thank you. Then we move on to the debate itself, and it is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329193816	Thank you, sir. President. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the Minister for the observations that the Minister gave us here, and of course I also recognise the government's need for a balance to be found. It has to be some time before we get on with this, but I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party believe that the time has come for the government to set sail so that we can move forward in the process. We believe, in fact, that we in the Danish People's Party have been extremely open to the government when the government has said: we will try to clarify what kind of parallel agreement we should have, whether it should be Europol alone or it should be a broader parallel agreement, including Eurojust, the PNR register and the European Investigation Order. Then we have said by the Danish People's Party: you just have to come and show us the arguments, then we do not rule out anything in advance, and if the arguments are sufficiently good, we can be convinced. But I just think that we still clearly need to get a real initiative from the government on what the government wants. I must also say that when I hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think that there is still too much dead bricklayer mine over it. In other words, there is still a negativity, such scepticism, a slightly twisted approach to things, as if we have not really got past the result that came on 3 December. And it is clear that if you are wearing such a very wretched mine and you come down sullen and negative to the European Union and say that you want a parallel agreement, then you may not get much further. Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs could learn from his predecessor, sir. Uffe Ellemann Jensen, who, after a no in 1992, went to Brussels and said: If you can't join them, beat them and then we got an agreement afterwards. I am sure that the Foreign Minister is even more enthusiastic than I am about the former Foreign Minister; my enthusiasm may in fact lie in a limited place, but the Foreign Minister is certainly enthusiastic about him. So there's gotta be something you can learn. One of the things that the European Union is supposed to be busy with at the moment, and as the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Justice, indicated, was why we could not move forward with these negotiations, was the question of Britain's association with the European Union. However, from our point of view, there must be a clear interest in actually using the momentum created by Britain to get this parallel agreement negotiated, because if there is anything that the sceptical forces in Britain who want Britain out of the European Union can use for something, it is precisely if the European Union trickles a small Member State that has a problem. So we believe on the part of the Danish People's Party that a window has actually been opened which we do not understand the government will not use. The government must also understand that the Danes refused to abolish the legal reservation on 3 December, and we are all obliged to respect that result and the government must work on that basis in order to find a solution to Europol. Therefore, it will also be my and the Danish People's Party's call to the government that a genuine desire for the scope of a parallel agreement be presented as soon as possible by the government and the arguments for it, and then the Danish People's Party will take a position on it. I am also sure that the other EU skeptical parties will do the same, and then the negotiations will have to proceed very quickly with the aim of achieving the goal before the British vote on 23 June. Of course, one can easily see very formalistic and legally on this and say: throw all sorts of lawyers up in the air. But the fact is, it's time to start moving. There is, of course, another and broader lesson from the vote on 3 December, namely the need for a more fundamental review of Danish European policy. And there is no doubt, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, that the Danes' 'no' to give the Japarti at Christiansborg this authority to surrender sovereignty in the field of justice without consulting the Danes was also a fundamental signal that the Danes are basically tired of giving sovereignty to the EU. However, this is a debate which we will have the opportunity to take up at a later debate on questions in this Chamber. However, in relation to the immediate challenge left behind by the outcome of the vote, which the Danish People's Party acknowledges, we believe that the government should now pull on the work clothes and use the momentum that exists to reach an agreement on continued Danish association with Europol now. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, I shall now present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that since the referendum on 3 December 2015, three party leaders' meetings and a meeting between the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Justice and the EU rapporteurs have been held to discuss the follow-up to the referendum. The Government has also had discussions with the Commission and other stakeholders in Brussels. On 20 January 2016, the Prime Minister sent a letter to the President of the Commission and the President of the European Council requesting from Denmark a parallel agreement on Europol. The Danish Parliament supports the Government's efforts to conclude a parallel agreement on Europol and supports a solution so that Denmark does not have to leave Europol in April 2017. V 44).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194351	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194359	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. It is true that there is a very short time for April next year. There is a year for the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party has guaranteed the Danish people that a no to the legal reservation does not mean a no to Europol. That is why I would just like to confirm, or rather confirm, two things in this context. If it is not possible to get a full membership of Europol through a parallel agreement, will the Danish People's Party still promise the Danish people that we will find another way to get full membership of Europol? The second thing I would like to know is, of course, what the Danish People's Party thinks is important when it comes to full membership of Europol. Is it also important that we can participate in joint efforts in European police cooperation, that the Danish police can enter into management positions in Europol and that we can have everything we have been able to do so far, including full membership of everything that is about combating terrorism? The two questions would be nice to have a very clear yes to from the Danish People's Party today, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194501	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, that I think that Mr. Martin Lidegaard now also occupies this dead bricklayer mine, which characterized the Foreign Minister's speech. Well, I'm aware that sir... Martin Lidegaard is on the loser team, and it is sometimes sad to be on the loser team, but we all have to be there now and then. Our starting point is that we must have a parallel agreement on Europol. What happens after that, if it turns out not to be possible, we will have to look at it then. At the moment, we should have the grain of sight completely sobered and focused on the task of getting such a parallel agreement in place. And then we'll have to talk about the other thing afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194545	It is not really to be pissed off, but you can read the referendum in many ways. One could also read it in such a way that the reason why so many Danes chose to vote no was that among other things. The Danish People's Party guaranteed that a 'no' to the legal reservation was not a 'no' to Europol. My very simple question is simply whether the Danish People's Party stands by the promise to the Danish people that Denmark can, must and should remain a full member of Europol, whatever solution is found to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194617	Of course, Denmark can remain as a member of Europol, and then it is a question whether or not you want to. But, of course, we can do so if the majority of the population so desires if it is the case that a parallel agreement cannot be concluded. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194629	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194634	In other words, it is important, I think, that we are sticking to a correct interpretation of history here in Parliament too. So when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, like Uffe Ellemann Jensen, uses as an example that it can succeed in getting some things through, by quoting him for then saying 'if you can't join them, beat them', I would like to point out that it was not about an EU vote. It was about Denmark becoming European champions in football. I hope, then, that the rapporteur will acknowledge this: that this was the case and that we do not have that option this year, at least because we are not at the European Football Championship. So isn't it a little out of place for the Danish People's Party to use it as an example that we really have to tackle the European Union now, because now we can do something like Uffe Ellemann did then? By the way, I can say that he was not so good at that time either, but OK, he used perhaps the fact that we had become European champions. But that's what he was talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194746	Now that we are in the history, we must remember that if we go back to March 1992, we did not actually have the opportunity at that time to become European champions, because it was only because Yugoslavia had to resign, and that happened at a somewhat later stage. So it may well be that we have the opportunity to become European champions in football, but I hope it will not be on the same basis as it was then, even though we are all happy with the triumph of 1992. I would just like to point out that when we had to go down and negotiate after the 'no' vote in 1992, as Mr von der Vring has said, we had to go down and negotiate after the 'no' vote in 1992. Holger K. Nielsen himself acknowledges that I was a great part of the reason for this, so it was with a more optimistic and positive approach than the one that I think the government has shown so far. In my opinion, it is only very clear that if one brings such a little sadness, one does not get very far either, compared to the fact that one comes with fresh courage and an otherwise united Parliament behind him.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194850	If the Danish People's Party has the same expectations of the current government as it had of the way the then Left Government handled it, then we have no problems. I can guarantee that. Because it was certainly not easy to get Uffe Ellemann whipped to negotiate those things. But he did it. He did it. And if sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth thinks it was so excellent, so I am quite convinced that the current Foreign Minister can do it as well as Uffe Ellemann did then. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194929	It is hard to know what to say, but it must be nice for the Foreign Minister to have such full and heartfelt support from the Socialist People's Party rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194939	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329194949	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I agree that the Foreign Minister seems sluggish, relentless, yes, it is as if he has already given up an intergovernmental agreement. He was busy telling us, like, between the lines, I heard that it probably couldn't be done. Then he can come back and say: it is not acceptable, friends, you have to vote once more on the supranational solution that you have rejected once, but there is no way around it. You can see it alive when you hear the Secretary of State. I do not know whether the rapporteur agrees that we should attribute such negative intentions to him. We must hope that today's debate will be able to put a little light on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it is important to know which way the majority of this Parliament wants to go, and that is why I just have to ask for clarification: what does the proposal for adoption put forward by the rapporteur on behalf of a number of parties? Now I don't have it in writing, so I have to ask. Does this mean that the parties behind it agree that what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has to do is merely an intergovernmental agreement, some call it a parallel agreement, and that the Foreign Minister can therefore forget all those who feel he has that it should also include a whole lot of other acts?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195102	What I take as the expression of the proposal for adoption is that the task that is bound is the task of Europol. But I have also said that we in the Danish People's Party are open to the power of the good arguments, so as to understand that if the government has a desire for other trials to be associated and can make good arguments for this, we will not reject it in advance. What we've missed is a clear statement from the government about what the government wants. And I don't think we quite got that today either. After all, the Foreign Minister has to go on a little later, and then it may be there, but we need to know where the government wants to go. In fact, we think that is a reasonable requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195154	Thank you. Yes, I agree that it is fair to make that demand, but it is probably also fair that we as parties in the Folketing should report out clearly. And there I would just like to ask the rapporteur: of course I can understand the fact that you have to be open and that you always have to be open, including to a foreign minister, whether the rapporteur agrees that the more things you involve in that debate, the more complicated it becomes. And is it particularly wise, therefore, to encourage the Foreign Minister to pile in a whole bunch of other issues which can only complicate it and make it harder to achieve what I think we all feel is agreed on, namely that we should have an agreement on Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195242	I'm not quite sure I'm gonna share Mr. Knox's feelings. Finn Sørensen's analysis of the fact that something is becoming more difficult because we may want parallel agreements in several areas. It might also be possible to make things easier in reality, because some things are better connected and can work better if it is the case that parallel agreements are requested for more than one piece of legislation or for Europol alone. So I do not think that it is necessarily possible to conclude that it is becoming more difficult. That is also why we wanted to hear from the government with the force of argument where the government would like to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195317	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195321	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur made a proposal for adoption on behalf of a number of parties here in the Folketing, including the SF and the Radical Left. It is therefore of course interesting to hear what the rapporteurs of those parties say, because it gives us an understanding of the text before us. I cannot help asking the rapporteur about the statement made by the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, where it almost sounded like Mr. Martin Lidegaard was already in the situation where it was not possible to implement a parallel agreement and looked forward to a new referendum on an agreement on supranational membership of Europol. The rapporteur understands Mr Seligman's point of view. Martin Lidegaard's statements in the same way, or are there any prior agreements and underhand agreements in connection with the adoption of this paper, which means that that is not what should appear in that text?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195431	As I also said when I answered Mr. Martin Lidegaard, one must at least say that Mr. Martin Lidegaard has the same dead bricklayer mine as the Secretary of State. If it is to be taken as an indication that Mr. Martin Lidegaard has a different interpretation from the one I am putting down on the adoption proposal, I do not think I will go into guesswork about. I am dealing with what is in the proposal for adoption, and I think that the primary purpose of the adoption is to send out the signal that a very broad majority in this Parliament wants a parallel agreement on Danish participation in Europol, and I think that really should be of value. So, for example, when the Foreign Minister invites the EU rapporteurs to Brussels to discuss these things, it is also to signal that there is broad support for that solution, and there I think that such joint adoption addresses the same need.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195528	It was perhaps a very good characterization of the adoption of the death bricklayer adoption. The rapporteur is now going further than what Mr von der Vring has just said. Martin Lidegaard says. It was the same tone we heard from the Secretary of State. Then what I would like to ask is how sure the rapporteur really is that the company he has entered really wants to make a parallel agreement. After all, the rapporteur looked very carefully at how little has been done, what opportunities have been neglected and so on, and so, as I immediately heard, I noticed that, for example, there has been an increase in the number of jobs created in the Community. It was a passage in the motion for a resolution that we should support the continued efforts of the government, but the efforts have not really been there. Is the rapporteur not afraid, therefore, of being tense to some wagon, which may in fact turn out to be a wagon that does not move anywhere, but needs only to be used to say at some point: now we need a new referendum in order to reverse the decision of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195639	I guess there's basically three things to say to that. The first is that I want to get the government up and running. I hope the government is prepared to do that. The second is that one must also have fundamental confidence in one's partner. So until proven otherwise, you have to have confidence that the government is going into this with the ambition of making a parallel agreement. The third thing is that if the government wants a new referendum on 3 December, the government must have an ambition to find other parties that will support the government. There are certainly no other parties against the government in the referendum of 3 December which will be prepared to go out and change their position on the same basis. I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195727	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329195742	Thank you. At the risk of being accused of both a dead bricklayer's mood and a losing mood, and what else has been said, I would like to say that it is no secret that we in the Social Democrats were both sad and sorry about the outcome of the referendum on the electoral system back in December last year. It is not the same as not respecting the Danes' decision, because of course we do. Nor do we have any immediate ambition to reverse that decision in an early referendum just to come Mr. Søren Søndergaard's possible questions in advance. But we are a pity, because we wholeheartedly advocated the transformation of the Danish legal reservation into an opt-in system and that Denmark could certainly become part of a stronger integrated Europol cooperation in the future. There are many arguments in favour of this, and the terrorist attacks in Brussels last week emphasise that we in Denmark are best placed to be a full and equal participant in Europol cooperation, both when we look at how much the Danish police use the pan-European registers. The figures speak for themselves; most of them can come back from the debate in December and when we look at the joint action against terrorism, the joint action against trafficking in human beings, the joint action against paedophilia rings and the fight against international gangs of thieves and the kind of criminals who have cheated the Danish taxpayers for billions of dollars. In order to ensure the safety of the Danes, we need to be involved, especially in Europol. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party warmly support the efforts to negotiate an agreement with Denmark on participation in Europol. But there is much evidence that it will not be quite as easy as the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten let the voters understand during the election campaign back in December. And then you can call it a dead bricklayer spirit or not, but a natural part of what you do after you've been in an election campaign is also that you evaluate that election campaign. We have also done this in the Social Democrats, and we are constantly evaluating whether there were things we could have done better, whether there were messages in the election campaign itself that we put too much emphasis on compared to others and so on. And in the same way, the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten should also evaluate whether the voters were torn into their eyes when they were told that it would be very easy to get such an agreement. That is something that can be considered, and hopefully the two parties will be accountable to the electorate, as they promised it would be an easy exercise. However, as I said, we in the Social Democratic Party support all efforts to reach an agreement on Europol. However, we are also curious to know when the government expects to start the real negotiations with the European Union. As far as we are aware, the government may, perhaps, not be able to formally initiate negotiations only after the new supranational regulation has been adopted in April 2016. This means that real Danish negotiations can begin at the earliest after the June Council of Ministers. In this context, it is therefore interesting whether we can secure an agreement at all by April 2017. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200051	There are some brief comments. The first one comes from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200057	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur said that there is much evidence that it will not be quite as easy to get an agreement on Europol as the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten have tried to deceive the people. Maybe it's not exactly literal, but it was like the message. That is how I saw it, and I can see from the rapporteur's body language that it was not entirely beside it. Now I do not know whether the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten have tried to deceive anyone, but we have just said that we would go for an intergovernmental agreement on Europol. But how does the rapporteur know that it will not be so easy if, according to the Foreign Minister, there have not been any real negotiations yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200141	First there's the thing about what Enhedslisten has been trying to deceive someone or not. Of course I don't know, but I'll try to see if I can get quotes on it. However, I took part in far more than a handful of debates during the election campaign, in which many of the debaters from the Enhedslist said at least that we could get an agreement as easily as anything, and that we did not really need the referendum that we had embarked on. Secondly, I would like to say that I have no insight into or participated in any meetings, but I know what I can read in the daily press. Only today there was an EU expert on Berlingske's website, www.b.dk, who said that the great effort in the EU against terrorism could risk prolonging the entire negotiating game that is about to begin. So much suggests that it may not be quite easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200234	Whose fault is it, then, that it will not be quite easy, and on what does the rapporteur base it? The only concrete point that has been made in the rapporteur's reply is that the timetable may be upset because of these unfortunate events. But why would it really make it more difficult in terms of content? At least we don't have an explanation for that. Then I also look forward to the rapporteur, firstly, providing some evidence of his claim that Enhedslisten has tried to convince the people that something should be easy in this regard. Secondly, I look forward, for another time, to the fact that the rapporteur is just checking such things before he throws a claim from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200317	Finally, I should like to say that I shall try to find some documentation for the rapporteur. I can remember most of all just the debates that I myself attended. Every time you were in the discussion, there were representatives of the Enhedslisten for one and the other and the third debate who said that of course we could get an agreement. To the first part of the rapporteur's question, I did not take part in any negotiations. I haven't even been down to visit. However, I note that it takes time to get started and that something therefore suggests that the experts who were out during the election campaign and warn that this would probably not be so easy are right. I'm sure there's some prospect of that right now. That's what I'm basing it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200355	The next comment is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200400	I also look forward to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen will find the documentation and transmit it. I will look forward to that very much. And by the way, I can tell Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says that basing one's memory is not always a safe model, but we look forward to the documentation. Now the question here is broader than just the question of the legal reservation. This is what has been learned from that vote, and I can still remember ■ believe that the leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, went out on election night with a relatively significant announcement that this would, like it, have some consequences on how the Social Democracy looked at the EU issue. I would not say that it was a voice from the grave that we have just heard from the speaking chair of the Folketing, but I would say that what we have heard did not sound as if much had been learned. Then Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen certainly did not tell us what Mrs Mette Frederiksen learned from the election result on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200500	For many good reasons, I cannot tell you exactly what the President of the Socialist Party has learned from the referendum. I can tell you that some of the considerations we have in the Social Democratic Party all the time and these are also some of the discussions we have had both here in Parliament, but also in the European Committee, which we will also have the opportunity to discuss later today, among other things. The British vote is that it may not necessarily be part of a firm Danish position that we should be as close to the core as possible. But I want to say that we are in a lot of different considerations in the Social Democratic Party right now about how to take this result down, and we have also made various evaluations of what we did right and what we did wrong during the election campaign, and that is the appeal I make to both Enhedslisten and to the Danish People's Party to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200549	It should therefore be understood that exactly what the referendum was about, namely that the people said that they would not abolish the legal exception, the legal reservation and transfer it to an electoral system that would allow politicians at Christiansborg with a narrow majority to opt for anything within the EU's legal policy, if they wanted to do so, that is to say, in relation to what was the subject, and in relation to what the people said clearly no to, the Social Democratic Party did not learn anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200621	We learn things all the time, and one of the things we do, among other things. It is also a question of evaluating what the result was, because there were many different types of 'no' in that referendum. Well, there's the no, as sir. Søren Søndergaard says, but there was another "no," that is, a "no," I very often met here in Copenhagen, people who were frustrated and thought that it was feeble that politicians had not gone all the way out and had also included the asylum and immigration reservation. In other words, there were many facets of that 'no', and that is why we cannot just cut it over a comb, and that is one of the things we are doing over the last few months and constantly evaluating, namely what exactly it is that we have to take down from that referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200701	The last comment in this round is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200706	I must also say that I thought it was such a rather strange, awkward and backward-looking rapporteur's speech that came from Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, and I don't know if it is because Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen misses to see Denmark kick off Scotland tonight, that the dead bricklayer mine also marks the Social Democrats' rapporteur. But I would just like to say that it seems to me that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has actually abandoned that parallel agreement, and that is why I just have to ask the Socialist rapporteur: what does the Socialist rapporteur really prefer? Does the Social Democrats' rapporteur prefer a parallel agreement, or does the Social Democrats' rapporteur prefer a new vote with the same content for Denmark to join Europol a or b?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200758	First of all, I would like to say that it is not, of course, a dead bricklayer's spirit to relate to this issue too realistically, and it would also be desirable for the Danish People's Party to do so. It has been said, and it has been said here too, that it would be easy, that of course we can get an agreement and so on. In other words, the kind of realism that I am at least trying to express could be expressed. The second thing I want to say is that we would have preferred the vote to be 'yes' on 3 December. That's how much I can say. In the situation we are in now, we prefer and support all possible efforts to reach a parallel agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200836	Yeah, yeah, we all think so. I would also have preferred that we had drawn some other territorial maritime borders in the North Sea, so we had got some of the oil that Norway has today. We just can't really do anything about that, can we? So now we have to look ahead and there I just have to ask the rapporteur again: does the rapporteur think that he would rather have a new vote with the same content, or is the rapporteur in favour of us working to get a parallel agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200900	I am in favour of working for us to have a parallel agreement. Secondly, I would like to say that it is now frequently part of the debate what it was that should have been done in the course of history counter-productively. I think there have been many opinions on both where borders should have been drawn in the North Sea and everything else. That is why it must also be part of the discussion, especially when I try to ask the Danish People's Party for a tiny bit more realism in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200926	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329200933	I just don't agree with you about the conclusion. That was the title of a chronicle that I wrote during the election campaign for the referendum on 3 December. What I meant by that was that it was a rather special election campaign, understood in such a way that it was difficult to have a debate on the material content of what we had to vote on. Because when we had a vote on the euro, some people were in favour of us having the euro in Denmark, and some people were against us having the euro. Those who were in favour thought we should vote 'yes' and those who were against felt we should vote 'no'. However, in the debate we had up to 3 December, some thought that we should be a member of Europol, and some others also thought that we should be a member of Europol. Some then felt that we should join Europol by voting 'yes' and some others thought that we should join Europol by voting 'no'. So in this way it was a rather special debate and a slightly special vote, and that is why I wrote my chronicle, which unfortunately did not quite have the impact I had hoped for. Maybe I should have written some more. But that's why I wrote my chronicle about consensus, just not about the conclusion. Because we agreed on Europol, and we also agreed on virtually all the legal acts that we also voted on. The same heading may be used when we look back in 50 years' time and ask whether the Danes would then just go to the voting box with such fundamental disagreements about the whole of European cooperation. Because we wanted something different, and it was the case that a majority of the Danes wanted it to be different from the 'yes' recommended by the Left. Of course I respect that, but the 'no' can hardly be said to be a 'no' to Europol. At least we heard that over and over again during the election campaign, and we heard that after the election campaign. For European police cooperation is an absolutely good thing. Fortunately, it looks as if we are quite in agreement on that. That is why, as the Minister has already explained, we have been able to stand together for a parallel agreement in the field of Europol, and that is a good thing. In the Left we see it as our prime task, first and foremost, to ensure Denmark's association with Europol, but we also hope that we will be able to stand together broadly on what other parallel agreements in the field of cross-border judicial cooperation we might benefit from requesting. So the government is in the work clothes, the Left is in the work clothes. It makes no sense to tone down, that we would of course have wanted a different outcome on 3 December, and for my part I would also like to admit that the result was a surprise to me. However, it does not make sense to ignore the outcome, and that is why the Left, of course, wholeheartedly supports the attempt to get the best out of the situation. Because we must also point out that the things we warned about in the referendum are now marking themselves as the obstacles we knew there would be. A parallel agreement is not something you just get like that. This requires the approval of various political bodies and of the other 27 Member States. And a parallel agreement is not fast to get, first and foremost because we cannot negotiate a parallel agreement until there is an agreement. Well, there has to be something to be parallel to. The roadmap for Europol has not yet been established, and the clock is ticking towards 1 May 2017, when an agreement at some stage must be in place. What Denmark has in its hands at that time will also say a lot about our relationship with the European Union. Because there is a lot going on with the European Union these years, which is also the next question debate that we will have shortly, about the British situation. In the Left, we want and believe in the European project and the cooperation it entails. We believe that we should be involved, that we should have influence and that we should take action. This does not mean that we are equally enthusiastic about everything that comes from the European Union, not at all, but we believe in the importance and necessity of European police cooperation and note that, fortunately, the other parties of the Danish Parliament are doing the same. We therefore support and welcome the work that has been going on since the referendum. By the way, I have a special greeting from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, whom I have been looking forward to conveying, namely that in this case too, the Left and Conservative cargo are bursting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329201348	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329201403	Thank you, President. I think I will start by asking myself what we were actually voting on on 3 December. As I saw it, it was, at least like what was on the ballot box, a vote on whether we would transfer more power or more competence to the EU's supranational legal policy. That is what we voted on. The majority of the population refused to abandon the people's reservations in order instead to establish a system whereby a simple majority of the people could in the future transfer all the powers in the legal field to the European Union as they wished. That is what was on the ballot, and that is what was voted on. I'm one hundred percent sure that Mr. Hummelgaard is right that there were many who had other motives in their heads for how they voted, both for why they voted no and why they voted yes, but I think it is wise to start from what was actually on the ballot. To change the wording we did not like, but that was what stood the reservation of the law as an option. It was not a small majority who said no, it was not a little coincidence. It was more than 6% that marked the 'yes' and 'no' side, and in this way we think it is very important to start any debate by saying that the 'no' of the people must be respected. This is particularly true in the area of the European Union, where we have had a tradition of being able to fiddle a little with reservations, which means that it is important to stick to the fact that the people's 'no' must be respected. So what did we not vote on? Yes, we did not vote on whether Denmark should continue to be able to enter into intergovernmental agreements in the future. It was not for the vote. I do not recall that it was on a ballot, I do not recall that it was part of a debate, in other words that this was about whether Denmark could enter into intergovernmental agreements in the future. Of course, we did not vote on it. That is why it is also quite obvious that, of course, we can conclude intergovernmental agreements according to the rules that apply, whether the majority of the Folketing, five sixths, possibly, referendums, if there is a need for it according to the rules applicable in the field in question, we can conclude intergovernmental agreements. That is, for example, the case. What we can try to use in relation to police cooperation, and we think that should be done when there is a majority in the Folketing that wants it. Of course you have to do it. I think I have to say that we expected that the government, if it wanted to respect the referendum result, would get more into gear. For that is not enough simply to say: well, we cannot reach an agreement at this stage, because there has been no precise formulation of a Europol regulation. No, that is true, but the reality is that an agreement could have been reached on the principle of Denmark's location. That discussion could have been taken, and it could have been used there, that it has been discussed here in the context of the English debate. We proposed this, but they did not, and we believe that the government assumed a great deal of responsibility by not doing so. I have to admit that I get the feeling that some people almost do not want us to have a parallel agreement. That is almost directly said because then the 'no' side can be held accountable to the electorate. I think that's a very unwise idea. I think we should work actively for the parallel agreement, and I think we should do that. Therefore, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I also have to submit the following: Proposal for adoption The people's vote on 3 December 2015 rejected Danish participation in the EU's supranational legal policy. The people's 'no' must be respected. Instead, the Folketing supports the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement on Europol so that Denmark, in accordance with Parliament's wishes, can remain part of Europol cooperation after April 2017. The Folketing instructs the government to work actively to secure such an agreement. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329201916	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329201932	Thank you. On 3 December, a majority of the Danes voted against the proposal to abolish the reservation. We in the Liberal Alliance are pleased about that, because that is what we recommended. I believe that there are many reasons why this was a 'no' and I believe that the main political reason was that the citizens did not want the power to surrender sovereignty to the European Union in the area of legal policy to be deprived of citizens and given to the Folketing. In the Liberal Alliance we see it as an enormously positive expression that the Danes insist on a leash in European policy and want to retain their constitutional right to involvement prior to major decisions on the surrender of sovereignty. It is, in fact, an expression of a strong democratic commitment, which I think we in the Folketing should welcome and appreciate. There are, of course, others in the 'no' vote that was given on 3 December last year. Some of the strings were liberal, and others were different. The liberal strings were about a 'no' to excessive regulation, a 'no' to excessive political interference in individual freedom and a recognition that being globally oriented and open to the world is not about putting as much power as possible into some EU institutions. When people are asked to take a position on a political question, they are, of course, bound by the answer given by the citizens, and that is not just in the legal sense. In the referendum on 3 December, a majority of the Danes voted against a model which received the support of two thirds of the Danish Parliament's parties. This should lead to a serious wakeup call and a subsequent consideration of adjusting the way in which we deal with European policy. Yet it is as if everything is going on as business as usual. We in the Liberal Alliance have proposed several times to open up the European political agreement of 2008, and I would like to reiterate that wish here. The composition of Parliament is different today than it was then. There are currently parties represented in the Folketing, which did not even exist at the time, and Europe is indeed today faced with problems and agendas that were difficult to imagine in 2008. It is at the limit of the absurdity of maintaining that a comma should not be changed in an agreement reached in 2008 and it is time to adapt the European political direction the reality we find ourselves in 2016. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the Government's efforts to negotiate a parallel agreement on continued Danish participation in Europol cooperation. Should the negotiations not result in a satisfactory outcome, we are determined to activate the electoral model after a new referendum, but with the very significant difference from the model that was voted on last year, that citizens' right to be heard in future surrenders of sovereignty must of course be respected. We made that point in the election campaign against the referendum, which we made immediately after the referendum, and we are today putting it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202251	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202309	After all, it is no secret that the alternative had hoped for a yes in the vote on the reservation of law in December. But that does not mean, of course, that we do not respect the electorate's 'no' vote, that we do not listen to the answer that came and that we do not take note of it, on the contrary. Like many voters, we saw a debate and an election campaign that actually screamed for more information, knowledge and debate about the EU, also when it is not election time. In particular, in relation to Denmark's participation in EU cooperation, there are two things that are very important to the alternative: strengthening the democratic debate on the European Union and improving European cooperation, making it more democratic, inclusive and transparent. For us, these two things are inextricably linked. The Danish 'no' made it even more necessary for us to sharpen our EU debate and ensure more information about what is actually happening within the EU, and for the conversation about the European Union to become much more vivid in everyday life as well. The last thing we want is for citizens to feel that centralized and opaque decisions are being pulled over their heads. That is why we are listening very much to the criticism expressed in the election campaign: both the criticism directed at ours, the Danish politicians' approach to the EU debate, and the scepticism that a considerable proportion of the population has about the cooperation itself. We see a fundamental need for us all to be much better at communicating the development of the European Union to the wider public, and then we will have to make much more effort to communicate what our basic plans and visions of EU cooperation are. We would therefore like the government to do even more to clarify its versions of Denmark's future EU cooperation, both in terms of the extent of the cooperation and in terms of what concrete ideas are being made about improving cooperation. I think it would benefit all of us if it became clearer how we from the political point of view look at future EU cooperation. The alternative has a strong focus on the need for democratisation of EU cooperation through reforms and decision-making processes, through actions to increase the transparency of cooperation, and through a strengthened public debate. All of this does not mean, of course, that we in Denmark should not do as much as possible to get the best possible parallel agreement home to an agreement that benefits both Denmark and European cooperation. We want to work together to find a good balance between ensuring Danish interests and this participation and finding a model that does not undermine and undermine the mutual commitment of EU cooperation. Specifically, we hope for the outcome of the vote on the legal reservation that the government is doing everything it can to secure a good parallel agreement between Denmark and Europol, where Denmark's continued cooperation is essential in order to prevent and combat cross-border crime. I therefore think that today's debate could actually be really exciting if it started to be about something other than this parallel agreement, which many people have talked about, so that we got on the table, what kind of vision it is that is at the root of EU cooperation. For that is what I think is left as the big question after the vote on 3 December: where do we want to go with the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202650	Thank you. We will take a brief comment and it is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202657	It is always interesting to hear the rapporteur of the alternative, because the likelihood of being surprised by what has been said by the rapporteur of the alternative in relation to all the other rapporteurs is always greater. I would say that here I was perhaps not quite so surprised. However, I did attach myself to one thing, which the rapporteur would very much like to clarify for me. The rapporteur said that the rapporteur believes that there is a lack of information in the Danish population about the European Union. I am not sure that I agree with the rapporteur, given that there are surely no people who know more about the European Union than the Danes do. However, I should just like to know whether what the rapporteur said should be understood in such a way that the rapporteur believes that it was because the Danes were uninformed that they voted against the abolition of the legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202754	If sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth had listened very carefully, so I said in the same sentence that there was a need for more information, more knowledge and more debate about the European Union. And that is because I believe that if we are to have a good debate, we need to be enlightened and knowledgeable and, indeed, I sometimes find that people lack knowledge about what is going on in the European Union, how cooperation works. It has nothing to do with whether people voted 'no' because of ignorance, rather, I think that many voted 'no', also because there was a lack of debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202824	I am not quite sure that I agree with the questioner on that. I think that there was a great deal of debate in connection with this vote on the reservation of the law, and it was in relation to many of the other debates that we have been conducting in the European Union area, after all, a relatively limited debate that was in the pipeline. That is why I think I have to say that I do not agree with the rapporteur very much. However, I hope that the rapporteur will, on the other hand, help me to tell you what the rapporteur means when the rapporteur talks about more transparency and transparency in the EU system, because these are fine words. That's not it at all. But it'd just be nice to know what's kind of behind those lovely words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202903	The fact that there is no agreement between the questioner and myself when we come to EU issues is not likely to surprise so many. After all, we have been discussing this for a few months together. What I mean by transparency and transparency is that there must be more democracy in the decision-making process, is that we as citizens, as a Parliament, should be able to see much more clearly when decisions are taken. That is why we have among other things. signed the DiEM25 manifesto, which goes in and says that there must be a hundred per cent transparency at Council meetings and that decision-making powers must be transferred from the Commission to the elected Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202939	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329202943	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. What did the rapporteur mean by the lack of debate was a reason why the people voted 'no'? Is it to be understood that if there had only been some more debate, a majority would have been able to convince them to vote in favour of abolishing the reservation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203007	Now for me, it's nothing to persuade anyone to do anything. I believe that what is a great, great deficiency in the EU issue in Denmark is a debate about what we want with European cooperation. That discussion and debate seems to me to have been lacking, even in the 3-4 weeks we ran the major debates on the reservation of the law, because the retention of the rule of law and the creation of the electoral system are also about what we want to do in the European Union, what we want to do in binding cooperation with the 27 other countries. I don't think so. This is a debate which I think is lacking and which I have said over and over again I would very much like us to have a lot more of: a debate on where we want to go with our cooperation with the rest of the European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203056	I didn't get so much smarter from it. I have taken part in quite a number of debates, some of them with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, and I think there was a broad debate on both the legal reservation and, of course, on the different positions of the parties in relation to where they want to go with the European Union. So I simply do not understand what the rapporteur meant by that was a lack of debate. It almost sounds like sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth was perhaps still a little bit right in saying that the rapporteur's position is that it was a lack of knowledge among the population. The population was not informed enough since it could decide to vote against such an extremely good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203142	If the questioner can get it out of what I am saying, I think the questioner should listen better because I would never say that. I do not think so, but I believe that a more fundamental debate about where we are going with our European cooperation, how we want to work together, do we want to make it binding, or would we rather be left out? In December, it is very important that we get to grips with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203209	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203221	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising this important status debate, one can say, just over a year before Denmark gets out of Europol cooperation, goes out of cooperation on counter-terrorism, and goes out of judicial cooperation unless the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance honour the promise to the Danes and ensure that Denmark can remain a member of Europol in some way. On the radical side, we meant exactly the same thing before the referendum, as we mean after the referendum, and that is that we believe it will be difficult to get the whole and full membership of Europol, which at least the Danish People's Party has promised the Danish people, without becoming, if I may say so, a full member of the new Europol. We did not say that in order to scare someone, we did not say that because we thought it was the sure way to win the referendum, but we said it because it was our sincere opinion that it is difficult to enter into an agreement on an equal footing with other countries in Europol if we do so only through intergovernmental cooperation. We interpret the 'no' vote of the people of Denmark as a 'no' vote based on the fact that all 'no' parties promised the Danish people that 'no' would not mean 'no' to Europol. I do not think it would have been a 'no' in the referendum if the Danes were not convinced that a large majority in the Folketing would guarantee continued Europol membership. In any case, that was the prerequisite on which all the 'no' parties were based. This also means, if it turns out that we are right, that it will be very difficult to negotiate a parallel agreement, which is, of course, the first step, that we will have to define together what we understand by full membership of Europol. Should Danish police be able to participate in all kinds of interventions in Europol? Should Danish police be able to join the control groups and control units in Europol? We need to have access to exactly the same intelligence as other Europol Member States, etc. etc.? What does it really mean to be a member of Europol? We have to agree on that. And if that can be achieved by means of a parallel agreement, then that is fine and we respect it. But I just think, as the Radical Left believes, and as we also thought before the referendum, that it will be difficult to negotiate through the European Union, simply because we know from experience from Norway and from other countries that it is possible to access parts of Europol cooperation, but that it is difficult to have full access to the whole of Europol cooperation. That is why we have emphasized in today's debate that not least the Danish People's Party, which was very explicit about this in the referendum, should insist that if the government fails to negotiate a parallel agreement home, we must find other methods so that we do not get out of Europol by April next year. And I'm sure there's gonna be a wave of questions about how I could hear it already from Mr. Søren Søndergaard's side, that is to say yes, but it is also just because we are again trying to manipulate and run scare campaigns and that we are already on our way to the next one. No, it is, in fact, very transparent: we say what we have said all the time, that it is really difficult to get a full Europol membership through a parallel agreement. That's what we said before, that's what we're saying now, and that's how we still think it is. But let us at last try to do the same. But we have to be honest about what we think, not least those of us who have tried to work a little with the EU system from within. Mr. Søren Søndergaard too, so I'm actually not convinced of anything but that Mr. Søndergaard... Søren Søndergaard well knows how difficult this will be. Well, peace be to it. We hope that the government will soon find it, one can say, clarity among all parties, including the 'no' parties, about what a full membership of Europol really is and what it is we are going for, so that we are ready when the European Union hopefully gets ready to negotiate these things with Denmark in the middle of everything else that is going on in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203637	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203643	I fully acknowledge that basic premise that the Radical Left has a self-understanding the size of the Round Tower and that they are wiser than all of us. That is why, when the Radical Left has said one before an election, it must be known that it is actually the case when we come around on the other side of an election. I acknowledge that is the radical self-understanding. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Martin Lidegaard, about Mr. Martin Lidegaard... basically... if you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard feels that it would be more sensible to ask the Danes to take a position on the same question as they were asked on 3 December, again, or on Mr. Martin Lidegaard believes that a parallel agreement would be preferable to that scenario. To be honest, I have some doubts about that when I hear Mr. Martin Lidegaard expresses himself from the Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203739	I am happy to repeat what I have said. Now it is not just something that the Radical Left has come up with, that is, the fact that full Europol membership can be difficult through a parallel agreement. Indeed, a great many experts, lawyers and the police themselves have expressed this, so that is not something I can take credit for alone. That is also why I cannot really see that we are voting on the same thing again, if we cannot get it through a parallel agreement I cannot see that. Perhaps I can see that we are voting on another package, in which a large part of the legal acts against which the current 'no' parties have been opposed are taken out; but that Europol and the totally related acts remain in place to ensure full membership of Europol, as the Danish People's Party has promised, I can see for myself if the parallel agreement solution does not go. But, of course, it cannot be the same thing that we voted on on 3 December this does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203841	But then, frankly, I think that sir... Martin Lidegaard has to understand that Mrs Christina Egelund had a point in her rapporteur's speech when Mrs Christina Egelund indicated that it was precisely the distrust that the Yes's could manage a mandate which was about the future being able to give up sovereignty to an unlimited extent in the judicial and foreign fields that caused it to be a no. I very, very much believe that this was precisely why it became a 'no' because there is a lack of confidence in the parties which, like Mr Tugendhat, are in the process of building Europe. Martin Lidegaard's unconsciously recommends a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203918	After all, I was not the one who promised the Danes full membership of Europol, even though it was a 'no' vote. It was the Danish People's Party. Therefore, it must also be the Danish People's Party that gives the Danes an answer to how this should happen, and if this cannot be done through a parallel agreement, then you have to find another solution. That's kind of just what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203935	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329203939	Well, I'd like to thank you for the transparency we're experiencing here. After all, the plan is being put forward completely. A parallel agreement is being negotiated. If that is not possible then we must have a referendum. There it is, then, that, in order to make it absolutely clear in the name of transparency, I will ask: if now Mr. Martin Lidegaard, if the Radical Left were to be completely free, irrespective of the popular vote and the majority and the mandates and everything possible, could choose between, on the one hand, a parallel agreement with which we were fully involved and, on the other hand, a limited electoral system, with which we were fully involved through the electoral system in relation to Europol, what would Mr. Martin Lidegaard then prefer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204033	If it was a full and complete membership, and we could thus get the Danish Parliament as a whole, including the Enhedslisten, which is against us being a member of the EU at all. Moreover, we have not yet been informed of this, so whether the EU will support such membership.I would then prefer it because there was broad Danish support for it in the Folketing. But since I don't believe in it and now Søren Søndergaard makes it sound like I've come up with a great revelation and have revealed a secret plan that we've had lying in the drawer all along I have to disappoint and say that's what we've been saying all along We've always said that the reason we recommended a yes was that we didn't think we could get the same thing through a parallel agreement. That is the same thing I am saying now, but it should not prevent the government from trying it, of course, just as we negotiated some reservations many, many years back, even though the then government did not think it was the right solution either. But it would be quite strange if I were to stand here and say: well, if a parallel agreement does not succeed then it must just fall on the floor, then there is no alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204138	Yeah, and that's where the transparency might have stopped anyway. Because, of course, that's the way it is, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, that Mr. Martin Lidegaard at any time would prefer, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard and the Radical Left have always made an agreement which involves the surrender of sovereignty. I guess that's why they suggested it. I guess that's why they suggested it. So the case is self-evident, and that's why Mr. So if you'll excuse us, Martin Lidegaard, because we don't trust Mr. Lidegaard. Martin Lidegaard will seriously work for a parallel agreement when Mr. Martin Lidegaard so clearly both here and in all sorts of other contexts says that the goal is to get an agreement where Denmark surrenders sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204229	Now it is not my job to negotiate it, but the government, so Søren Søndergaard can sleep safely. But at no time has it been the surrender of sovereignty that was our goal. We believe that we will win sovereignty over the terrorists, over the paedophiles, over all those we can fight together with the other European countries by standing with them. And yes, it requires us to join forces and thereby formally surrender some sovereignty in order to actually win sovereignty in areas where there is cross-border crime and where we cannot win ourselves. And if it is transparent to recognise it, I am happy to say yes, that is why I believe in European cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204307	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204310	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. It wasn't the dead bricklayer who spoke there. It was the undertaker himself, and even at a time when there was no body, the undertaker was already so far ahead that he could see Paradise in front of him. Congratulations on that. What can you say? To find out where the rapporteur is actually going, I would like to ask the rapporteur this question: is it the case that the Radical Left will say no to an intergovernmental agreement if it does not involve full membership of Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204357	I believe that Denmark is best placed to participate fully in Europol, and that is also what the people have been promised throughout the election campaign. That is what the 'no' parties have said over and over again. We can get in both bag and bag, you can just vote no, we will get full membership of Europol anyway. So I would expect the 'no' parties to stand by that promise; I think there are some out there who feel cheated if the 'no' parties cannot deliver it. I would certainly feel that the people will be cheated if they do not have full membership of Europol in one way or another, but of course I respect the referendum. When Mr. Søren Søndergaard asks what I would prefer, I would say that I respect the referendum, so now we have to try the parallel agreement in respect of the referendum, but the referendum was also a number of 'no' parties that promised full membership of Europol, so if we cannot deliver, what do we do? There are so many, undertakers or not undertakers who, if I may say so, lack answers to that. Here I just see the sun rising instead of dark speech, that is, there is only one solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204506	Thank you again for a clear answer. The rapporteur has just confirmed that this is how I see the answer: 'No' to an intergovernmental agreement if it does not involve full membership of Europol, and the rapporteur used the majority of his initial proposal to say that it is not really possible, or that it will be very difficult. It's kind of how you weigh it. So I'm absolutely right. Søren Søndergaard is right. From the point of view of the Radical Left, some clear lines have been laid that lead to the surrender of sovereignty, which is in line with the rapporteur's view of things. I would just like to say that it does not matter what a rapporteur from the Radical Left is saying to the Minister and to the rest of us. Would the Minister not listen to that and would the rapporteur then admit that he is not very helpful in getting the intergovernmental agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204554	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204556	I just don't understand where Enhedslisten is going with these things. We say exactly what we have said all the way through: what our assessment is of the possibilities of getting a parallel agreement and what we think is necessary if we do not get it. Those who have a problem are, after all, the parties that have promised the Danish people full membership of Europol within the next year, while at the same time recommending that they vote 'no'. We can talk about a credibility problem if we failed to get a parallel agreement home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204629	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204641	I think that the alternative rapporteur had some interesting and correct considerations about the lack of vision in this debate. In other words, it might be relevant to have a more general debate on this • What do we want with Europe and the future of Europe? Unfortunately, however, this is not the way the debate is being conducted. And I have to say that the way the debate is being conducted, I think it is deeply untimely and completely irrelevant. I am completely incomprehensible that it should be discussed this late evening, because it turned out to be a no in the referendum. We were sad about that, but there is so much, and then you have to work on it. The government does. It is negotiating in Brussels to get a Danish agreement with Europol, and that is what it must do, and no more than that. What was said before the referendum was that it is possible to get an agreement with Europol by means of a 'no' vote, which means that we are still away from Europol, and that is what the government is working for, and that is also what is said in the proposal for adoption that a number of parties have put forward here today, and that history is not much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204814	There is one brief comment for the time being, so I would ask the rapporteur to remain in the Chair. It's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204819	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the fact that the rapporteur has enriched us with his presence, since the rapporteur believes that the debate is a waste of time. After all, it's worth taking your hat off too. Unfortunately, others have not been able to do so. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur, quite calmly and peacefully, something. Does the rapporteur think that if the rapporteur were the one who had to decide and the rapporteur has been the Minister for Foreign Affairs, then the rapporteur has had the opportunity to decide at some point, could he say that the rapporteur would be aiming for a parallel agreement, or would the rapporteur be aiming for an opt-in system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204905	Well, I do my job, I always do. I learned at home that you have to work for your bread. That's why I'm here tonight, of course. How to negotiate? The question is, of course, that the blind are discussing the colours. We don't know anything about that here in the Folketing. I've been Secretary of State, that's right. I know that diplomacy is working hard on this. If we sit and learn whether this is one solution or another, and how and how, then it is pure amateurism, and I would strongly advise against us starting to stick our fingers in and get involved. That is why it is very clearly stated in the proposal for adoption that the government is working to obtain a Europol agreement as a consequence of the referendum. That's it. I just think we should back that up. We are also doing so in the motion for a resolution, which the Danish People's Party was kind enough to put forward in this Chamber. And then that story isn't much longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329204957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205000	Well, you're about to get to the point where you say that if Mr. Martin Lidegaard was the undertaker, was Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's body. Because we cannot soon become more negative about the framework set up here in the Danish Parliament today. But I just want to say to Mr. Simpson... Holger K. Nielsen, that now the Danish Parliament knows nothing about this and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has been Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is precisely the right person to be able to answer whether what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen had such in mind, in fact was an option rather than a parallel agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205040	Well, again, I can have a lot of opinions about it, but it wouldn't be very qualified because I don't have my fingers in the dough trough, and that's what you have to have if you're going to discuss this in a qualified way. But we do not have that here in the Parliamentary Chamber. That is why we have left that task to the government, and I know that the government is working intensely, determinedly and hard to get an agreement ashore, and that is what we have to confirm in this Chamber today. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205111	I have to say that the morbid remarks made in this debate are not enough. The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205121	I can hear that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen is trying to sweep up Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and this is a very good attempt. But now that we are in this historic discussion, which we are also discussing, that it is something the officials are running, that it is not something we should interfere with in the Folketing, what is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's assessment of the fact that when the Treaty of Lisbon was concluded, was the only way forward that was mentioned, a path that was called the constant abolition of Danish sovereignty and the conclusion of electoral arrangements? The possibility of obtaining a parallel agreement was not negotiated. Was this an expression of due diligence, or was it, on the contrary, an expression of a very specific line that could lead to only one result?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205215	I don't know if it's because I'm dead, but I mean, I don't remember those negotiations, sir. Søren Søndergaard. So I can't answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205225	We'll take that another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205230	Then we thank the SF rapporteur, and the next person to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205250	Thank you. I understand that the Foreign Minister does not want to say anything. In some contexts it may be wise not to say anything, but I simply do not understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not find any reason to comment on the otherwise excellent debate we have had now and which I certainly do not think has been a waste of time. Because this is precisely how we have identified the positions of the various parties. And there I think it is essential here to attach ourselves to the fact that there are some parties that do not really seem to go wholeheartedly into the proposal for adoption that we otherwise share. So that is what it is, it can be said, because different parties can have different views about it. But I have to say fairly that the person I would say was most loyal to the proposal for adoption, in itself the rapporteur of the Left. And I guess I have to say that the Left and thus the government are loyally working on the basis, that is, an ambition to establish a parallel agreement. But I'm just still unhappy that we haven't gotten some kind of government action in relation to what the government wants. I mean, does the government want the investigation warrant to be included? Does the government want PNR to come with us? So what exactly does the government want to do? I can also say that I do not feel that we have any idea on the inside, and I have to say that now is the time for the government to come up with that proposal. So I do not understand why the Foreign Minister has not chosen to enrich us with such an announcement this evening. I think that would have been very appropriate. However, I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it has been quite excellent and certainly helped to draw the outlines of where the various parties in the Folketing stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205453	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205510	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 March 2016. We shall now proceed to the explanatory statement of the question, and I give the floor to the rapporteur of the questions put to us. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205543	Thank you, sir. President. It is now almost time since the Danish People's Party announced this inquiry debate. It was November 11, 2015, after all, a lot of water has flowed through the stream since then. At that time, we did not know the outcome of the negotiations between Britain and the European Union, but we are now doing so. There is no doubt that Denmark has a strong interest in Britain remaining a member of the European Union. Hopefully, when Denmark takes a more EU-reserved course, including at government level, it will undoubtedly be easier if Britain sits at the helm and thus together with a number of Eastern European countries and therefore Denmark can move towards an EU that deals with fewer things and leaves more to the nation states. With the agreement between Britain and the EU, progress has already been made for Denmark, for example. in relation to the possibility of indexing child benefit, the neutralisation of Metock and progress on the interpretation of the scope of the principle of subsidiarity. But these are conditions which are neutralized in the event of British voting out of the European Union. It is important for me here to make it clear that, of course, it is the British people alone who must decide whether Britain should continue to be a member of the European Union. We cannot and must not interfere in Denmark. Yes, the parties themselves know, from their bitter experience, what effect it can have when foreigners interfere in a national election campaign. Having said that and stressed it, it is possible to hope, on the basis of nationalist considerations, for a certain livelihood to support a particular development of EU cooperation. There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party believes so far that the British agreement is the ultimate objective of a review of EU cooperation. It is only the beginning, and that is also what the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, has said. Cameron has promised that if the British vote in favour of continuing in the European Union, the British Government will press for more democratic reforms of the European Union, for more influence on the nation states and for fewer tasks in the future to be left to the European Union. It will be exciting to hear the government's reflections on this, because I have no doubt that the Danish people are asking for answers on the direction in which the EU should move, and whether the government still stands for its ambition that Denmark should be as close to the core of the European Union as possible to an ambition that is undoubtedly shared by ever fewer Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205814	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329205821	At the European Council of 18 and 19 February this year, agreement was reached on an agreement addressing the wishes for reform of EU cooperation raised by the British Prime Minister in his letter of 15 November 2015. To start a step further back, there has been a long way to go since Cameron announced that, in the event of election victory, he would ask for a renewed referendum in Britain on their association with the European Union and for a dialogue with a large number of people, including governments, including, of course, the Danish Government, on what kind of framework such a renewed agreement was within. That is why we knew in advance that there would be four points in which Britain and David Cameron would ask for changes in the relationship. These are questions of solutions in areas relating to the following: (1) euro countries and non-euro countries; (2) competitiveness and better regulation; (3) the issue of sovereignty, not least an enhanced role for national parliaments; (4) a special British interpretation of what was already clarified in 2014: how, as the Treaty of Rome states, the concept of ever closer union should be understood in a British context. So these have been four areas in which there has been some progress before and a long dialogue on the eve of the European Council on 18 and 19 February. The agreement also contains solutions in the area of welfare and freedom of movement. This is among other things. has been agreed that it is possible to index the children's cheque to EU citizens in the future, whose children do not live in the same country as the parent who has earned the allowance. It was also agreed that the much-mentioned Metockdom of 2008 will be rolled back. It is no secret that this government has been very forceful throughout the whole process from the warning that Britain will be asking for a change, and during the discussions up to Cameron's letter of 10 November, and not least during the period up to the summit, has strongly supported Britain's efforts in the negotiations. There are many reasons for this: Britain and Denmark have an historically close relationship, we came into the European Union at the same time and in the same age, we have followed along and had common priorities along the way in order to ensure that the European Union was as effectively managed with as much focus on competitiveness and job creation as possible, and we often look at things the same way. Therefore, it is also the case that Britain and Denmark have worked closely together to get the individual parts of the agreement on Great Britain in place. Many of the things that Britain has got into their agreement are things that Denmark has wanted for a long time. Nor should I conceal the fact that, from a Danish point of view, an EU without Britain will be another EU, it will be a weakened EU, it will be an EU without the same economic capacity, without the same cultural diversity, and it will be an EU without the same political force in terms of being able to speak with a common voice. That is why it has also been important for the government to be able to help to land an agreement that can form the basis for a vote in Britain which can be won. The British Prime Minister thinks he can do that with this agreement, and I hope so too. I don't want to hide the fact that this has been a very difficult fight. All the discussions at the summit on 18 and 19 February were very intense and with very different positions, not only from those parties that wanted to help Britain find an agreement that met the objectives set by Cameron, but also from a number of countries that wanted to move in the opposite direction, which wanted to remove some of the things that were actually on the table and which wanted to water down the basis of the agreement. Therefore, it was a battle in which a large number of countries discussed back and forth, and where it was also important that Denmark was on the field in relation to the rules that apply, for example. for indexing the children's cheque, for Britain, if they vote yes, so that it will be possible for other countries, including Denmark, to bring those rules into the legislation forward-looking. From the Danish point of view, it managed to hold onto the achievements of the negotiating table, and from the Danish point of view, it is a very good agreement with many good elements that provide solutions to issues that we have fought for ourselves. This applies not least to the possibility of indexing the children's cheque. It has, of course, been a Danish wish and wish expressed by the government on several occasions, so that it should be the case that the payment that is being made is of course intended to cover the additional costs of having children and that the sum paid must reflect the actual costs of the country in which the child is staying. This is about the roll-back of the Metock judgment, on which we have disagreed over all the years from 2008 onwards, as far as the conclusions are concerned, and we, on our part, have worked to change the rulebook behind the judgment that was taken so that a new decision can be taken. I am also very pleased with the result in relation to relations between euro countries and non-euro countries. I myself have had to raise this issue at the meeting of the Ministers of European Affairs some time ago. The euro countries must, of course, have the opportunity to meet on what is relevant to the euro area countries. However, where it is relevant to all 28, it is the 28 countries that are to meet, not the euro countries, which, as it were, meet on their own. I am also pleased that the principles here have been put in place. That is why the result that has been achieved, which is now to be voted on in Britain, is well along the road and in the direction that the government would like the European Union to move forward. Nor do I believe that we have finished the discussion on the basis now, among other things. the question of the rights of migrant workers, what is called Regulation 883. This is a regulation that we have asked the Commission to propose to amend to ensure that it is possible to have the right to travel as a worker, but not to travel for welfare benefits. It is a regulation that has not been negotiated in the context of the agreement that lies for Britain here, but a regulation that needs to be worked on in the future to ensure that you can travel to work, but not to travel for welfare benefits. Now it is up to the British people in a referendum to decide whether they want to become part of European work or whether they want to leave the European Union. And that is important not only for Britain but for the whole of Europe, not only because, as I said, a Europe without Britain will be another Europe, a weaker Europe, a weakened Europe in a large number of areas, but also because the elements with which we in Denmark are very satisfied are contained in the agreement, will only come into force if it becomes a 'yes' in Great Britain. It is the case that part of the agreement is bound up with those elements, for example. The indexing of children's cheques alone can happen if it becomes a yes, and therefore there is every reason for Danish to look forward to the vote with excitement. I do not want to interfere in the votes of other countries, just as I do not expect other countries to interfere in Danish referendums, but, as I think most will be clear, the government hopes that Britain will vote in favour of the European Union. This will allow us to benefit from the elements of the agreement, but it will also ensure, and perhaps more generally, that the EU will be able to speak with the strongest common voice in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329210721	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We shall move on to the debate. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329210739	Thank you to the Minister for his statement, which, it must be said, did not contain so much news. One would like to ask the Foreign Minister the question: what is this for? Because that's really what's interesting. Above all, the statement by the Foreign Minister did not contain what the Danish People's Party has been asking for over and over again, namely that the government takes stock of the fact that there is also a fundamental scepticism among the Danish population about further integration into European cooperation, and that the government is thus taking a more EU-sceptic approach, as I also thought we were agreed before the parliamentary elections that took place last year. The government attaches great importance to Britain continuing in the EU, but there seems to be a big difference in what the government and the Danish People's Party will be using a continued political membership of the EU for. The Danish People's Party will use it to force fundamental and necessary reforms of EU cooperation. The government, as I hear it, will use it to maintain the status quo at best. But in the Danish People's Party we are not interested in the status quo, we are interested in a new European political course and that course is put in line with the British. There is a violent over-representation here in the Folketing of EU positive parties, but that is not out there among the electorate. The European political agreement, in which the ambition is that Denmark should be as close to the heart of Europe as possible, is precisely an expression of the disproportion. There is no doubt that there is a need for a new European political agreement, a debate which the Minister can call for with benefit, when the British may have voted 'yes' in the referendum of 23 June. In the Danish People's Party, we cannot live with an EU that is taking ever more power from the nation states through new treaties, new regulations, but quite so much through integrationist judgments from the European Court of Justice. We need a new, more democratic European Union. If the European Union is to survive, the European Union must not just be dressed in new robes, the European Union must fundamentally change, and that is what we can use Britain for, because we need at least a large Member State to address precisely the need for fundamental reforms in the European Union. The Skepsis vis-à-vis the EU is pronounced throughout Northern and Eastern Europe and in broad parts of Western Europe, as recent elections in inter alia. Slovakia and Germany have, of course, given their views on the matter. If confidence in the European Union is to be rebuilt, the European Union must fundamentally change its structure. You can do this by sanitising what the European Union needs to deal with. Today, the European Union is dealing with far too many things. Why should EU ministers of education, for example? sitting at a Council meeting and discussing what should be the right to vote in local elections in the Member States? Why should the EU dictate what social benefits migrant workers are entitled to in the Member States? Why should the European Court of Justice be obliged in all cases to judge towards more EU integration? Why should the EU interfere in how many people of each sex should sit on boards? Why should the EU redistribute large amounts of billions between the Member States so that the EU can boast on large banners that the EU has helped co-finance projects that are actually paid for by taxpayers themselves? Why should the EU demand that there should be no border controls between Member States? Yes, you could keep asking these questions about why the European Union is interfering in big and small things, something that the European Union should basically not be doing. The first opportunity to make a fundamental change of course is in relation to the forthcoming negotiations on reform of the regulation on the coordination of the social security systems of the Member States of the European Union, the so-called Regulation 883, in which it is expected by the Danish People's Party that there will be a significant reduction in what migrant workers are entitled to, and a fundamental debate should be opened on when they are to be regarded as migrant workers, so that we get away from the situation that 9 hours of weekly work qualifies one as a migrant worker and thus, for example, as a recipient of the Danish SU. Within a reasonable period of time, the EU's Treaty basis will have to be revised. This opportunity must be used to launch an ambition for a fundamental reform of the European Union, in which more tasks are left to the nation states and where nation states are endowed with the necessary power to stop unnecessary intervention by the European Union. If there is also to be binding European cooperation in ten years' time, then that is what needs to be done. On behalf of the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, I shall read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to support and pursue the course of reform that the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, has indicated will continue to pursue in the event of a British 'yes' to continued membership of the European Union. The Folketing is actively instructing the government to work for a reform of the EU, in which the nation states will have greater influence, for a reform of the provisions on migrant workers, and for the government, in the context of future negotiations on treaty changes, to work for the return of power from the EU to the nation states. • V 46).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211257	The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211319	Thank you. I should also like to begin by thanking you for the question. I think this is a good and relevant debate. I would like to begin by saying that we in the Socialist Group also believe that it is entirely the British's own decision to be taken in June. On the other hand, we also believe, as the Foreign Minister also explained, that there are a large number of different advantages for Denmark in the agreement concluded by the British. It is about the recognition that you do not have to go in the system all the time for an ever closer union. We also welcome the indexation of the children's cheque that has been proposed, and the same applies to the roll-back of the Metock judgment. Having said that, we very much hope and I very much hope that on 23 June the British will vote in favour of staying in the Union first and foremost because it is clearly in Denmark's interest. The Minister for Foreign Affairs presented a large number of the many benefits. And, of course, this includes continuing opportunities for strong trade and strong relations with Great Britain. In addition, however, we, together with the United Kingdom, are also faced with a large number of common major challenges. And that is also the balance that we must constantly seek to achieve when we talk on the one hand about having a healthy debate about the EU not having to decide everything, but, on the other hand, recognise that many of the great challenges of the time are some that we have to solve together. It is about the refugee and migrant crisis, it is about the increasing challenge of placing very large amounts of money in tax havens outside the Member States' possible tax collection, it is about a common interest in employee protection, and it is basically about regulating the financial sector so that we can avoid future financial crises. In addition, I also believe that it is in Britain's own interests if they are to avoid a race against the bottom for employees, such as several trade union leaders, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The prospect of disintegrating without my otherwise interfering with it can also have very incalculable consequences. And last but not least, it is also in Britain's own interest to be able to remain part of the very great freedoms which are associated with being part of the European Union. Therefore, I will read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption • The European Council of 18-19 February 2016 agreed an agreement with Great Britain. The agreement addresses the requests for reform of EU cooperation made by the British Prime Minister in his letter of 10 November 2015. The Danish Parliament notes that the British Prime Minister has welcomed the agreement, which he considers to be a good basis for the referendum on 23 June 2015. At the same time, the Folketing expresses its support for Britain's continued membership of the EU. Finally, I should like to say that the radical rapporteur could not be here, but that he supports the proposal for adoption, as I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211638	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There is one brief comment for the time being. The questioner is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211650	We would like to ask the rapporteur what this is for. Well, the thing is, I read that Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and Mr. Nick Hækkerup has indicated that the social democratic EU course has now been set up, among other things. in relation to Eastern European benefit recipients, SU, etc. etc. The Social Democrats have set the course, yet the rapporteur stands here and speaks on behalf of the old SR government. I was just about to say, but it is fortunately many years ago, if ever, that there has been such a thing as the Social Democrats and the Radicals are in the middle of EU policy. Is that so? Is the social democracy and the radical vice bursting about EU policy? If that is the case, what should be added to that, as Mr. Nick Hækkerup and Mrs Mette Frederiksen have talked about is social democracy's EU policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211747	First of all, I have not spoken on behalf of the Radicals. I have read out a proposal for adoption which the Radicals support, and then I have promised, on behalf of the radical rapporteur, to say from the platform that he could not be here during this part of the debate. But I should not have to say, fortunately, that I would have liked to say that I would be taken as an income for what the Radicals think and do not mean. As far as the social democratic EU policy is concerned, I would like to take the example of myself. in writing. - (FR) In my rapporteur's speech, which I also expressed during the previous debate on the question, I said yes to the fact that we are currently in an evaluation phase, calling it an evaluation phase, calling it an adjustment phase in which, on the one hand, we are assessing exactly what the outcome of the referendum should be, and, on the other hand, we are taking a closer view of the development of the European Union, which is not only moving towards everything being closer. However, as I have just said in my rapporteur's speech, there are a number of points on which we would like to cooperate more closely. It is about the regulation of the financial sector. It is about a common fight against tax havens and a large number of other things that only common EU solutions can solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211900	It all sounds very exciting. It actually sounds like something the alternative could come up with, that is to say, the thing about sitting and evaluating its own efforts and things like that. What I just want to hear is: what is it in the proposal for adoption put forward by the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance that we disagree with, that is, the proposal that we write that the nation states should have greater influence; that we should have a reform of the provisions on migrant workers; and that power should be returned from the European Union to the nation states? Which of the three sticks does the Social Democratic Party disagree with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211927	In other words, we have chosen to write a proposal for adoption together with a large number of other parties, in which we note that the British Prime Minister has expressed satisfaction with the agreement which he considers to be a good basis for that referendum. We support Britain's staying in the European Union, and that is what this question debate is about, and that is why we have agreed on the adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211952	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329211956	Thank you. It's just that sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen mentioned some trade unionists who were supposed to support it, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen stands for. I am absolutely sure that is true. But it is just to clarify that we are in agreement that the agreement which the Socialists in Denmark and as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen stands here and praises, is an agreement that the British Social Democrat leader has spoken vertically against. He has said that this is a really bad agreement and he has urged the European Parliament to vote against part of that agreement and prevent it from ever happening. He then calls for a 'yes' vote because he wants Britain to stay in the European Union, but the starting point is that he says it is a really bad agreement. It is just to be aware of where the Social Democratic Party places itself in the international social democratic image. So it is far away from Jeremy Corbyn and the British Labour Party, and it is very close to the Conservatives and the Left in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212112	I'm actually getting a déjà vu, because I think I've got exactly the same question from Mr. Søren Søndergaard before, namely a month ago, and I also think that I replied relatively clearly at that time. I am not going to be wise about what Jeremy Corbyn has for one reason or another, but I note that the British Labour Party and Jeremy Corbyn are clearly in favour of Britain staying in the European Union. That is also what the Danish Social Democrats are clearly in favour of. At the same time, we may think that the agreement that David Cameron and Britain have made with the European Union can also be used for something in a Danish context, and we can of course express satisfaction with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212154	I'm sorry, sir. Søren Søndergaard from the second brief remark? Then we say thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and we go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212214	Thank you. I would first of all like to say, as a new rapporteur in the European Union area, that I have looked forward very much to the debate on this question which has come about in the light of the wishes of the Danish People's Party. After all, the future of the European Community and, in particular, of the European Union depends very much on what happens after 23 June, when the British vote on their future membership of the European Union. It is therefore not only relevant, but simply urgent, that we should have a debate here in the Folketing on how we stand in relation to the British's wishes for a reform of EU cooperation, because reform is needed. On the left side, we have long expressed a desire for a leaner European Union, which, in turn, is stronger in those areas where it makes sense for free trade, security policy and the safeguarding of external borders, all things that we want to be part of the European Union of the future. The path to that future goes, of course, through one of our most important partners, namely Britain. Denmark's relationship with Britain goes back many years, even before there was something called the EU. When the political strife of the 1800s had settled, good political and trade relations flourished between Denmark and Britain during the 20th century. And in World War II it was Britain, with Montgomery in the lead, that tilted the occupying power of the stick here in Denmark, and subsequently the Danish-British trade relations developed to such an extent that nothing less than 20%. of Danish exports in the early 1970s ended in Britain, which at that time was our largest and most important trading partner. Today, Britain is our third largest export market and, at the same time, one of our most important allies in Brussels, when it comes to the question of which way EU cooperation should go, and therefore there is no doubt that it will have major consequences for both the British and the Danes if Britain joins. In the words of British EU Minister David Lidington himself, no will be a leap into the dark for both the British and the rest of the European Union. In relation to the question, therefore, I am aware that the authors of the question have expressed the wish that Britain should remain in the European Union at least for the sake of the Danes, and of course we on the Left agree with that. However, we believe that this interest goes beyond our own national interests, because for us it is not only crucial for Denmark but for the whole of the European Union that Britain remains in the Union if we are to hope in any way to implement the reforms of EU cooperation envisaged in the agreement between Great Britain and the European Council. A 'no', on the other hand, would require a great deal of hard thinking, not just about British membership, but about the future of the whole of the Union and, at worst, it would be the beginning of the end of the cooperation which generations of Europeans have laboriously built up after having fought each other for centuries. I can't let that happen. That is why the British referendum is crucial to the fate of the whole of Europe, and that is why we all have a great interest in the fact that such a major player as Great Britain remains a part of the European Community. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to stress that we in the Left are in favour of the agreement reached between the British and the European Council and, at the same time, we hope that the British, with a 'yes' on 23 June, will ensure that the agreement can be implemented in the interests of a united, strong Europe. In this case too, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they support the joint proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212550	Thank you. There is one inscribed to a brief remark, and that is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212559	On the basis of the rapporteur's presentation, I feel somewhat compelled to put a very simple question to the rapporteur: does the rapporteur feel that the Left, prior to the parliamentary elections last year, committed itself to a more EU-sceptic course?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212623	Do I feel? I don't really know how I feel about that. I'm not such a emotional politician. So, the Left has a positive attitude towards the European Union. We have always had that, but that is why we look critically at which way the European Union is going. And it has been the position of the Left for many years that the matters which are best dealt with at national level must, of course, continue to be resolved at national level. By the way, we do not share the fears which, among other things, we share. was expressed in some of the Enhedslisten's electoral documents up to the vote on 3 December, so that the European Union would interfere in everything possible, whether one had to marry others of the same sex, and what I know is what was said by mysterious claims. So the things that are best solved across borders we think must continue to be solved across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212723	I guess that was, at the end of the day, mostly a no. So, I just have to ask the rapporteur the question: does the rapporteur think that when we are going to start a new treaty, and we have to do so within a reasonable period of time, the Danish Government must, in the context of that treaty, draw in the direction of more powers being left to Brussels, or should the Danish Government, as a starting point, follow the line that David Cameron has indicated, namely that more powers have to be granted to the Member States?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212810	I don't think it's that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212815	We thank the rapporteur of the Left and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329212834	I think we should congratulate the British, not necessarily with the agreement. I do not think there is any reason for that, but with them having the opportunity to vote on EU membership. I think that's a good thing, I think that's right. Well, Cameron has negotiated the best he could and made an agreement that a majority of parties here in the Folketing praise. That agreement will then be put to a referendum, and here the British will have the opportunity to say so if they do not want to join the new European Union under the conditions set out by Cameron. Then they can choose to leave the EU. It is clear that we are not fans of David Cameron's plan, but we actually think it is a very good idea for the people to have that choice. In fact, we think that we should do exactly the same in Denmark. Why should the Danish people not be allowed to take a stand on EU membership? There are parties from the right to the left who talk in time and early about how well it would make the European Union and how many changes it would bring, and we think that is right. But then go together and try to make those changes, like Cameron has done. See what improvements you can get through; see how far you can get, then put the result you get over the population, and ask the people: should we continue in the European Union on that basis, or should we step out? That is the decision of the people. After all, there are many good reasons for having such a referendum. It is more than 40 years since Denmark joined. Time has passed, the European Union has, to put it mildly, developed in every way compared to what you are dealing with and what you are not dealing with. You go in and deal with areas with which the Danish people were explicitly promised you would not deal with. This is true, for example. the right to strike and social policy. In a number of areas you go in and deal with something that the people had otherwise been promised you would not touch. I guess it's very reasonable that at some point they say: okay, let's see if we still have the people with us. What can happen to that? Yes, it may happen that the people are right and say: we must stay in the European Union under the newly negotiated conditions. That's good. Then it can happen that the people say that you do not want to stay in the European Union, and then it is probably good. Because if the people want something else, it is the will of the people that must be put through. Or do some people think that it is a good idea for Denmark to be in the EU, contrary to what the Danish people want? If so, that does not sound very democratic. So this is a pure win-win situation that everyone should be able to support. We have even purchased some ideas as to what things the government should negotiate in relation to a new regime, and there we are sure that both the SF and the Alternative will back us up. Something needs to be done about social dumping that we have discussed earlier today. Something needs to be done about self-determination in terms of welfare. It must be possible to take the lead in terms of health, the environment, food safety and animal welfare. Just take today, when it has come to light, that the number of animal transports from Denmark over 8 hours in which the animals are suffering has increased to twice the number and because of the European Union, the Danish Parliament has no right to take a decision to defend animal welfare and to impose a limit on the duration of transport of live animals. In such areas we must have the opportunity to take the lead. Let us fight for it together, and then let us present that result to the voters. We offer the government our support for this as a starting point for a referendum to bring the attitude of the Danish people into line with what is the actual policy. That is why, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I should also like to make the following points: proposals for adoption The government is called upon to enter into negotiations with the European Union immediately on a new regime which will give each Member State the unconditional opportunity to combat social dumping, including self-determination with regard to welfare rules, and to take the lead in areas such as health, the environment, food safety and animal welfare. At the same time, Parliament calls on the government to follow the British example and to issue a referendum on whether Denmark should remain in the EU under the new conditions or opt out completely. • V 48).
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213356	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. The rapporteur is asked to remain in the chair. There is one brief comment for the time being, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213409	There is, in fact, a great deal of what the rapporteur has said here, to which the Danish People's Party can easily subscribe, including, in fact, the desire at some point, if it is appropriate, to hold such a referendum as the rapporteur has just indicated. It's not necessarily that far away. I just have to understand this for myself: provided that these things were now put into the EU framework that the rapporteur is asking for and came through with these things, would Enhedslistens then, in such a thoughtful scenario, go out to recommend a yes to continued membership of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213500	In other words, Enhedslisten is in favour of the withdrawal of the EU... we are still doing so away. However, we are willing to help those parties that put forward the view that you can get all sorts of good things through the European Union to test that theory, that is, it is clear. It is clear that these things will in any case make the European Union that we are facing better than the European Union that is today. Perhaps we can now consider whether anything will come out of the negotiations I doubt myself. But we are willing to give it a try, try it out, give it a chance, and then put the two things opposite each other. Then it will also be a win-win situation for us. If the people follow us around a resignation, we will have won. If it follows us around a slightly improved European Union, yes, it is not good, but it is certainly a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213556	Yes, of course, it is also a tactic that can be adopted, and I fully acknowledge that. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that there is now such a break-up in the European Union. So there are many different political parties that are about to have had enough of the European Union and that want a different way for the European Union or want to withdraw from the European Union. Does the rapporteur not think that it might somehow make an impression? Or does the rapporteur think that we need to go down and have something falling together so that we can build something up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213638	We don't know. Well, we don't know. But we're willing to try. We are saying that the model chosen in England can actually be an option, understood in the sense that you try to get as far as you can, and then you give the people a choice. What we may think, since the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is asking, is that it is a little strange that the Danish People's Party does not wholeheartedly support the possibility of having a Danish referendum. In other words, we think that the Danish People's Party should give its wholehearted support to the people's ability to vote on EU membership. And that is what we want to give the people the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213725	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329213740	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the reform agenda that Britain's Prime Minister has set for the European Union. Against this background, for example, we have. Today there is a political debate on the European Union and the need for reform. I think that is a good thing, which is why I would also like to sign up to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in the question debate. The agreement that Britain has concluded with the European Union has been called both groundbreaking and historic, and in our optics there is such a need for a groundbreaking break with the course that the European Union has set, and for our sake, the battle must be historic, as long as what comes out of it is a narrower, but stronger, European Union. The only pity about the situation surrounding Britain's renegotiation of its relationship with the European Union is that a large Member State has felt it necessary to put its membership of the Union on high ground before the reform agenda really got under way. And I sincerely hope that on 23 June a majority of the British will vote in favour of staying in the European Union. We in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of strong European cooperation based on voluntaryness; cooperation which includes the special agreements needed to allow 28 different Member States to see themselves in the Community. In my optics, the so-called cherry picking is part of the solution, not part of the problem. The reform agendas set by the British Government are also relevant to us. The question of not putting the Member States outside the euro worse than the countries in the euro zone is relevant to Denmark. The possibility of indexing welfare benefits is relevant for Denmark. The possibility of derogating from the vision of an ever closer union is relevant to Denmark. The possibility for national parliaments to draw a so-called red map of EU legislation that does not respect the principle of subsidiarity is relevant to all Member States. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, we warmly support the implementation of the reforms negotiated by the British Prime Minister, and we call on the government to pursue the reform agenda in the European Union, even if the really boring thing should happen that Britain had to vote to leave the Union. Until then, we call for support for the British Prime Minister's efforts towards the referendum, and we sincerely hope, as I said, that on 23 June a majority will vote in favour of remaining in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214020	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214037	As I said earlier, in the alternative, we are always happy to have a more in-depth discussion of what we want with European cooperation. For European work is greater than what we have seen in recent years. The need to take up this fundamental discussion can hardly be emphasised enough. The European Union faces major global challenges, which require much better answers than those agreed so far by the Member States. Today, European cooperation is extremely challenging. The refugee crisis, the climate crisis and the very high youth unemployment are all cross-border crises requiring collective responses. If we in the European Union fail to sit down and have the difficult discussions on how to improve the European Union, then we run the risk of the refugee crisis getting even more out of hand because we did not dare to use the necessary tools. We risk losing the fight against climate change and pushing huge bills on to our children and grandchildren. We risk losing an entire generation on the floor because we were unable to give young people the opportunities they deserve while they were in time. That is why it is high time for us in the European Union to come together and have the political courage to dare European cooperation, even when the challenges seem great. Reform of EU cooperation should therefore not result in closing ourselves down, but rather in a united and progressive European Union, so that we can once again lead the way in global reforms that can bring about a serious, sustainable transformation and a positive change at global level. This change requires both political priority and investment, and not least it requires leadership from progressive countries of which Denmark could be one. The alternative vision of EU cooperation is crystal clear: we want to draw Europe in a more sustainable direction. This applies at both economic, social and environmental levels. However, this also applies to the spread of human rights and equality, where we in Denmark have used our vote in the past to take the lead. In the alternative, we do not want a reform of the European Union to take the example of the agreement between Britain and the European Union. Britain's agreement with the European Union does not solve the deep-rooted issues of European cooperation. We believe that a reform of cooperation should focus on strengthening democracy and cooperation and creating more transparency in the European institutions. Nor do we believe that a reform of the European Union based on the points of the agreement will solve the great crisis of confidence facing the European Union in relation to the people of Europe. This will probably have the opposite effect. Let me give just a few examples. Many people have said that we do not want the European Union to develop into a social union, and it is proposed that special suspension arrangements can be put in place with the English agreement to try to stem what has been very ugly called welfare tourism. Firstly, I still believe that we have not seen any evidence that there are real problems with welfare tourism. Secondly, I fear that with measures such as these, we are unnecessarily helping to suspect the motives of some European citizens in order to come to other European countries. With measures such as these, we can help to put our core values at risk, because it is freedom of movement that is the cornerstone of European cooperation and we need migrant workers, including in Denmark. Instead of supporting an over-simple myth formation on welfare tourism, I think we should look at the challenges we really face. Another major focus of Britain's agreement was the focus on the EU's competitiveness. This great and often narrow focus on national economic gains from European cooperation seems to me to be a real shame. This is a shadow of the fact that the European Union is much more than a growth project. The European Union was, and is, above all, a community of solidarity and a peace project that even has the potential to become a lever for global green conversion. So let me come to what the alternative means that a reform of European cooperation will have to contain. In the alternative, we usually say that Denmark must be the best country for the world. It is the same that applies to the European Union. European cooperation must be the best international cooperation for the world, a cooperation that dares to show political courage to take the tough decisions and take the lead in the fight for climate and human rights, for example. We also need to address the democratic deficit in European cooperation, the deficit that feeds popular distrust and creates a problematic gap between citizens and the European institutions. We need to open up decision-making processes even more so that the citizens of the European Union do not feel powerless and without influence. A number of measures could easily be taken to meet this. It only requires political will. For example, a proposal could be to livestream meetings of the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214545	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. We move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214608	After all, it is always important to have debates in this Chamber, and certainly many important things have been said in the speeches that have been made so far. But again it is a rather strange debate we have, because we do not know the outcome of the British referendum. After all, it is difficult to discuss the question: if one thing or another happens what then? It is bound to be a very hypothetical discussion that we are entering into, and it does not really make any sense until 23 June, so I think there will really be grounds for discussing the consequences, especially if the British say no. Then we have reason to engage in a major discussion. But until then, this is a matter for the British people, and we can go in as individual politicians and take part in the debate over there, but I do not think that the Danish Parliament should go in that way and deal with it so much, except that we can express a general desire for Britain to remain in the European Union. And we're actually very much in agreement that would be an advantage for them to do so. However, the agreement negotiated by Cameron is not much I should like to say. He has probably negotiated on the basis of what he thought would be best for Britain, and that is the agreement that is the basis of the British referendum. We must then have confidence that it will be enough for the British to say yes to stay in the European Union. The crucial thing, I think, is that Britain does not resign from the European Union, and that is the starting point for our approach to the whole discussion and also our approach to the agreement negotiated by Cameron.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214805	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214812	I think, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has misunderstood what the Danish People's Party wants to do with this. What we'd like to do is look at the possibilities this offers. If this gives us some new opportunities to really save the European Union, save the project that I know Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is deeply fascinated by and in love with? For the alternative to doing nothing and the alternative to continuing the course that has been set up so far is quite simple, then it collapses. And we don't think we're served with that. We are served by cooperation at European level, and I just have to say that I have no doubt about what Holger K. Nielsen wants to do. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen would like more of the same, I have no doubt about that. So this was more of an enlightenment to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen on what the facts are like. So this is about the prospects of a British vote, in a yes or no, not about the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214910	No, I don't think I've misunderstood what the Danish People's Party wants. The fact is that it is totally incomprehensible what the Danish People's Party wants, so there is not so much to misunderstand there. It is simply not to understand what it is. Then there will be a lot of tirades about what will happen if that and that happens, and I don't know what. Let us not take it very concretely and take it as groundy as this should now be taken: Britain has a referendum on 23 June and there we hope the British will agree to stay in the European Union. Then leave it at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214946	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329214949	It may be, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has not understood what the Danish People's Party wants, but there is 21 per cent. of the voters who have, and that is also very good. That's what I choose to trust. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen that it is the perspective that it is the idea of what it is for the European Union we want to go towards. Once upon a time, sir. Holger K. Nielsen wanted more power for the nation states. Then he became afraid of some parties like the Danish People's Party, and suddenly he became fully-toned European. It's a rather strange development, but it has to be, sir. Holger K. Nielsen himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329215023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329215024	Well, here's the thing: I've been working on European visions since Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth wore a diaper and went to crèche. That is why I do not really want to hear him lecture me on how to discuss European politics. There is still real reason to debate how Europe should develop, because we have also proposed several times that we should have more flexible European cooperation. It is certainly possible that the British referendum will give rise to this, but there is just not a devil who knows that. That is where the Danish People's Party like to patent to know everything about what the British referendum will provide the basis for what it means and what can be drawn from conclusions. It is quite, quite untimely and unspeakable, and there is no basis for it. Should we not wait for the British referendum; should we not wait for the outcome; should we not wait for the reactions in other countries? Actually, we don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329215136	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, then, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, asked for the floor in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329215153	Thank you. I have to say to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, that I am glad that I am not a member of the Socialist People's Party Parliamentary Group, because there are up to several members of the Socialist People's Party Parliamentary Group who are considerably younger than I am and if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen doesn't bother discussing with them either, so if I were one of them, I would think it was a little too bad to sit in that group. But I understand that you have to be the age of sir. Holger K. Nielsen, in order for him to take a political debate, and we must then take note of that. I am standing here and now, and I am actually doing so in amazement, in deep and fundamental wonder that we have a Foreign Minister who does not want to take part in a debate on an historic crisis in EU cooperation and who will not make himself available for the Members of Parliament to ask him questions about these things. It's really amazing. I have no opportunity to ask questions to the Foreign Minister when the Foreign Minister is up to answer the question. I have the opportunity to put questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs first if the Minister for Foreign Affairs takes the floor at the end, which is why I have not had the opportunity to put questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Having said that, I do not know whether I think we have had a good debate, but I have to say that I do not understand why the Left and the Conservatives cannot be included in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, but instead are co-signators of what I would call a lirumlarum text which does not really contain anything and in which there is little perspective. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, if the European Union is to survive, something new must happen. Otherwise, I agree with the view that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has indicated that there is then probably only one way, and that is down the slope. After all, the migrant crisis, the Greek crisis and the British vote are all symptoms that there is something quite wrong in the European Union, but I just see a strong will to ignore that fact today, and I think that is something deeply sad. The realization that there is something wrong should hit everyone, whether you are an opponent, skeptics or jubilee Europeans, because the house you are building now has no foundation on which to stand. And if the foundation that is, after all, is becoming increasingly porous, countries are falling away, countries are not going to stand up to being defeated, and the people feel abandoned by the European Union because the EU has not acted in relation to the immigrant crisis and the threat of terrorism, then the last remnant of support for that project will disappear. So the jubilee Europeans run the risk of their house falling apart, and we skeptics want to see another European Union that is more democratic and transparent and that has better room for nation states. If it all fucks up, it is bad for us too, because what about the things that are good in EU cooperation, for example. free trade or part of cooperation within Europol? This kind of thing is also in danger of falling into the trap. Then there are the opponents, who are represented by Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten. In principle, of course, they can laugh all the way home and say: What did we say? But as I understand the Enhedslisten, the Enhedslisten will not resign from Europe. And if they want to, they will join the world, and of course you can ask the question whether it is a better place to be, after all. I'm not quite sure, but that's the way it is. So I just think it is better to engage constructively in working for a better European Union, an EU that can generate popular support, because it is an EU that is not above the Member States but in agreement with the Member States. I think it would be wise to take stock of it, and I think it would be wise for the so-called 'yes' parties to take the temperature of reality and to note that there is a very long way to go from the European enthusiasm represented in this Parliament and the growing dissatisfaction of the population. The answer to the EU's challenges is no longer the European Union. The answer is another EU. And if the question remains for the citizens whether we should have more EU, then the answer will also be no, thank you. It's as safe as the amen in the church. I had hoped that today we could take the lead in using the British vote constructively to point forward and to play along the line that David Cameron has been setting up, but unfortunately I have to admit that I have been disappointed, and I believe that the citizens who have followed this debate behind the screen have also been disappointed. Denmark must be completely behind the British reform efforts now and in the future, and we must do so first and foremost for our own sake.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329215651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. That is not the case, and that concludes the debate. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160329215716	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 30 March 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
