ParlaMint-DK_20160524130029	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130037	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130045	Thank you. After all, it is the last question hour of this parliamentary year, and it could be an opportunity to look back. But we also have a final debate next week, so let me look forward to tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, when I have invited you to a conference on Danish economics held by the government at Marienborg. Participants will be trade economists, managers and organisations. We have also invited the party's financial rapporteurs. Everyone has said yes, and I am very pleased that the invitation has been welcomed. The purpose of this conference is, of course, to look beyond tomorrow and to give a slightly longer perspective on the challenges Denmark faces in the next decade, to have a discussion on possible solutions and to gather inspiration for the economic 2025 plan that we will be presenting after the summer break and which I very much predict will be the focal point of autumn's political work here in the Folketing. How do we meet the challenge that we in Denmark are not good enough to create growth and jobs, and the danger that we will not be able to maintain the position of the richest in the world in the long term? How do we respond to the challenge of having an historically small room for manoeuvre in the public economy because of declining oil prices, refugee pressure and others in a situation where we want to prioritise core welfare? That is what the government is concerned with basically. How can we bring about the development and progress of living standards in line with what the Danes expect? These are some of the issues that we are discussing at the conference and which we will move forward into the debate. And, as I said, I welcome the positive reception that has been given by the parties, who are all sending their financial rapporteur to the conference. May I then make a few brief comments on the new Europol regulation, which was finally adopted last week. After all, it is now in place by Parliament, and that means that from 1 May next year we will have a Europol system which is supranational and where Denmark will therefore have everything else just slipping out unless we resolve the problem before then. This is also the reason why, immediately after the definitive adoption of the regulation, the government has now formally applied for a parallel agreement. This has been done with the support of a broad majority here in Parliament. I would like to sign for that. This is a good starting point for the work that has now begun, where we are working intensively and actively to get a good parallel agreement. I myself have had in-depth discussions with the President of the Commission and other key actors, and most recently during the visit of the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, to us last week, I had the opportunity to discuss this matter. We've never concealed the fact that this could be difficult. Our assessment today is the same as it was before the referendum; everything else would be weird as well. It is not the case that you can simply withdraw such an agreement from a machine à sous machine. It is difficult in legal terms. This requires the support of various institutions in the EU system, and it is also difficult because there are many other major issues on the EU agenda at the moment. So our task now is to convince the Commission and other Member States that Denmark must have a new special scheme and that we do not want to use the electoral system that Denmark negotiated in the context of the latest EU Treaty. It is not simple, but we are putting all our energies into it, because clarification is urgently needed. That is also why I have indicated that we must have such clarification in the course of the autumn, because that is what needs to be done if we are to know our legal position and have things in place before the regulation comes into force. Otherwise, we risk losing the Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime after 1 May 2017. Of course, the government wants to avoid this, and I assume that as a matter of course is a wish shared by the other responsible parties here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130454	We thank the Prime Minister and now proceed with questions from the party leaders. I would point out that in the first round the questioner and Prime Minister have both up to two minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, where the questioner and Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130510	Thank you. The last time we stood here, I allowed myself to say that there was a little quiet on the part of the government and that it had been difficult to find statements from the Prime Minister to tie up the Question Time. Instead, I took the opportunity to take stock of the Prime Minister's own success criteria as to when to call it a successful government, and we then jointly found that had not gone so well so far. Now it has to be said that something has happened since then, because suddenly we have to understand that we have to roll back. We need to roll back in relation to our ambition to bind Denmark together by means of a train fund to ensure faster trains for all parts of Denmark, and we need to roll back in relation to our green transition and our ambition to secure jobs throughout Denmark. After all, all this means a lower level of ambition and potentially very many jobs, not least for many of our unskilled and skilled workers. This is something that will hit our rural areas very hard and cost jobs, growth and thus the cohesion of our entire society, and it must be said that we are surprised at the fact that we have a Prime Minister who chose to strengthen rural areas, and I really think the latest proposals seem a little like a confession case. When it comes to the large investments that are seriously creating jobs and transport improvements, the government is simply not on the side of rural areas. In my view, it is a joint responsibility to secure funding for the investments that bind Denmark well and properly together. It goes without saying that the falling oil prices make it necessary to look at the economy of the Train Fund DK, and we want to do so, but of course without reducing our ambition. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister a very specific question, namely whether the Prime Minister will not confirm that the funds which, so to speak, are lacking in the Togfonden DK are realistic to finance under the Finance Act, as long as reliable calculations show that this corresponds to approx. 200 million kr. annual.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130727	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130729	Thank you. May I start by arresting it with this common consensus, which apparently should have developed at the last meeting we had with each other, that it did not go so well. Because things are going very well in relation to the points the government has set up. We have said that we would have more private jobs and private employment has increased. We have said that we would have fewer people on public support, and the number of people on public support has fallen. We wanted to strengthen core welfare, and core welfare is strengthened, among other things. in the health sector with 2.4 billion. kr. this year, and the municipalities have more money. Ceased against the 3 billion. kr., taken from the municipalities when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was in government, the municipalities have 0.5 billion. kr. extra this year, and we have, by tightening up foreign policy, to some extent countered the pressure that we have seen in our neighbouring countries. I just want to mention that. We have no ambition to roll anything back. We have an ambition to roll some things forward as it can be paid. It is true that there are some parties, and then it does not cover my own party, which has agreed on the basis of a completely unrealistic assessment of the oil price, a project which is in many ways exciting and which in many ways also originates from the infrastructure fund which I myself helped to agree when I was Minister of Finance, that is, the ambition to bind Denmark together. But the money is not there, and that is why we have to sit down responsibly and look at it, and that is also happening at the moment in the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen's party takes part in the discussions itself. This is quite the same with regard to the green transition. We have no ambition to roll anything back. We have an ambition to move a little slower in view of the fact that the energy agreement concluded in 2012 has proved to be based on conditions that have fallen apart. The PSO has been overruled by the European Union, so we need to find another way of financing it, and price developments, including global ones, have been such that the economy linked to what we agreed in 2012 has gone out of hand. That is why we have to sit responsibly in the circle of parties that have concluded that agreement and ask: what are we doing about it? This is a sense of responsibility, and it is, of course, discussions that are currently taking place, and I also hope that those countries will be able to do so in a memorable manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130941	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524130943	Now I have to say that the good thing for the further discussion is that the Prime Minister and I are often followed in different contexts, and it is not quite the same summing up that the Prime Minister himself does when he meets the Danish business community. After all, we have just been there for a couple of weeks at major gatherings, both at the CO industry and subsequently at the Danish Business Department, and there we are agreed that we are challenged in the Danish economy. Growth is too low. We need to make sure that we also have a competitive Danish business community in the future. It is a problem that the Danish economy has not really recovered. That is why I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to give a picture of the Danish economy, to have all the facets, and also to remember that we promised an immediate halt in the area of asylum, which we have not delivered in any way. But I will return to the Train Fund DK and ask: Does it not make an impression on the Prime Minister when prominent mayors of the Left, for example in Esbjerg, say that we need an infrastructure that binds Denmark as a whole together, including the west coast of Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131055	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131057	As far as the Danish business community is concerned, I am not hiding any challenges. In fact, that is why I used the beginning of my speaking time here today to say a few words about the conference that I have initiated will be held tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. For Denmark has challenges. That does not alter the fact that, in relation to the four points we had when the government came in and which I have set up with regard to the three of them, we have provided quite clearly and that, in the case of the fourth, which concerns refugees, we have delivered in the sense that we have taken a number of initiatives which have tightened up. And, of course, where there has been an explosion in the number of asylum seekers in our neighbouring countries by 100+ per cent, the increase in Denmark has been less. It must be kept up against what was under the government that sat before and that made relaxation, and it must also be kept up against it, and I think everyone can just sit and think about it a little bit about what a policy it would have been if the SR government had continued. With regard to the mayors, I would like to say that everything the mayors of the country say makes an impression on me, and I am also impressed today, when we are debating local economy, that the municipalities would like to have an economic space to enable them to provide core welfare. After all, my challenge and the challenge that we all face is that the money must fit both at the beginning and at the end of the month, and it is just necessary to say quite quietly that the project that was negotiated home before the elections is based on conditions that have been cracked. It is based on an assumption of the price of oil that does not stand up at all, and that is why the money is not there. And when the money is not there, you have to sit down responsibly and discuss how to make it last as long as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131227	Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131229	But the fact is that the country's mayors are concerned about the welfare society's economy because of the government's policy and not because of any other given conditions, and if we take the Train Fund DK, it is not true that the conditions are cracked. What is true with regard to the Togfonden DK is exactly what the conciliation parties said before the elections, namely that if there is a reduction in revenue from oil, we must find another form of financing, and that is the discussion before us. For instead of cutting off the project that can bind Jutland and Zealand together, and instead of delaying what makes our infrastructure work, so that we get a growth throughout Denmark, we could sit down and discuss how to secure funding for it, and it is basically a question whether we want to prioritise or not. What we expect to come up with in order to secure a train fund and secure trains throughout Denmark, which drive faster and more up-to-date, is approx. 200 million kr., and this corresponds approximately to the amount that the Prime Minister has chosen to spend on lowering the registration fee. Would it not be wiser to spend the money on an infrastructure that benefits the whole of Denmark, including a city such as Esbjerg, instead of lowering the registration fee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131342	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131344	I fully support the fact that we have reduced the registration fee, by the way, at the expense of one of the parties with which we have concluded a financial agreement, namely the Liberal Alliance, if I remember correctly, because that is what brought us together to the end of a financial agreement that creates more optimism, among other things. Because we could roll the NO x So that's politics too. In relation to a Denmark that is to be linked, Denmark must be linked. But it is of no use that, when you have built something on a foundation that is completely cracked, you just insist that everything be as it was. I think we should be careful not to stare so zealously blindly at an hour model. And I say that, although I have helped to conceive it myself, what may have gone by some people's noses, but it was so with the infrastructure agreement back in 2009-2010 that we formulated this vision of an hour model but to be so zealous about the last second that you, for example. We must build a bridge over Vejle Fjord for a billion dollars in order to save a few minutes in a situation where, moreover, pressure has been exerted elsewhere and where this is in competition with other infrastructure costs, we will not be involved. If Mrs Mette Frederiksen can hold the original majority together and find out in the majority where to give priority to the money from the Finance Act, then Mrs Mette Frederiksen must do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131510	Thank you. We move on to the second round, and here both the Prime Minister and Mrs Mette Frederiksen have up to two minutes' speaking time, followed by questions of 1⁄2 minutes duration. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131519	This isn't about zeal. It is about ambition, and what the Prime Minister of the country is saying today is that you would rather spend money on lowering registration fees in favour of very few people than tying rail traffic together for the whole of Denmark. That's a very, very clear message. Not least, it is a very clear message to rural areas, to the mayor of Esbjerg, to all of West Jutland and to North Jutland that it is more important for the Prime Minister of the country to lower the registration fee for the few who benefit from it than it is to ensure growth and development throughout Denmark. And it was perhaps very good to write that conclusion, although I disagree with it. Since we are now talking about ensuring a good framework for the whole of Denmark, the Togfonden DK is not the only example where ambitions are being lowered right now. In Denmark we have a strength position in the green transition. We must take advantage of this, not least because it guarantees us thousands of good jobs. After the Paris climate summit, successful Danish companies could tell about potential new markets for green conversion solutions. It is all investments that enable the 3F to get a job in the future. That is why we are very concerned when the government has raised doubts about Denmark's green ambitions in the context of the restructuring of the PSO tax. This could potentially cost us many jobs, again jobs located far away from Copenhagen in those parts of Denmark that really need them. We are strong in the whole area of energy technology, and global demand will certainly increase. Against this background, there should be no doubt in the Folketing. It is the wrong way to go down on the green ambitions. This would potentially damage our exports and thus our growth and mean fewer green jobs. When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister in 2009 said the Prime Minister: We are in the middle of a serious economic crisis. This leads some countries to turn down green ambitions, but it is short-term strategy. Which Prime Minister does the Prime Minister agree most with? The Prime Minister who is proposing today to turn down the green ambitions, or the Prime Minister who actually said very wisely in 2009 that it would be short-sighted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131738	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131740	We have high green ambitions. We have that as a country, we have had it for a number of years under changing governments. This is the policy that has been pursued under changing governments, and I myself have had the pleasure of participating in 11 of the last 16 years, which has led to Denmark having a leading position, and we will also have the unabated position, although we now have to deal with what is a reality and which I look forward to hearing Mrs Mette Frederiksen's answer to: the PSO, the way we finance the green conversion, is under-disclosed, we have to find a new source of funding. You have to understand what Mrs Mette Frederiksen says, so that there is absolutely no need to tamper with a bill. That bill just needs to be brought into the Finance Act and financed: how? This is a rhetorical question I am asking here. It will then have to be financed by crowding out some other expenditure, i.e. infrastructure expenditure. That was not the Train Fund DK, I had to understand. I'm sure it wasn't the municipal core welfare either, I had to understand. Then I don't know where exactly it is that the money should be taken from. We are trying to be responsible about this, sticking to a high level of ambition in a situation in which the conditions on which the agreement was reached at the time have gone. This is part of responsible government management, and Denmark had a responsible Prime Minister in 2009, and Denmark also has that today, so I agree with both him and myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131910	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524131912	I believe that, for the present Prime Minister, it may be beneficial to agree in both places, but that does not necessarily make the answer more credible. After all, it is not a discussion whether or not we should reorganise the PSO. We have to, it's a bottom-up job. We have entered constructively into the negotiations. The question is, what are the ambitions we are going to turn down? Of course, what concerns us is not least the coastal offshore parks, because that is where many of the jobs are located, and I have to say that when you visit Esbjerg Harbour, when you visit the old Lindøværft, when you visit a number of Danish companies, it can potentially have a real, real effect both for the specific companies and jobs for West Jutland, but also for the overall Danish growth. Perhaps we could then not agree in the further discussion that we should look after the offshore wind farms, because that is not least that many of the jobs are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132002	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132004	Now I do not understand whether we are discussing offshore wind farms or coastal mills, because our approach to this is that we should stick to the green transition, and then we should try to make the bill as small as possible, given the green ambition one has, because we now have to get into another regime where the bill has to be paid in a different way. It may well be that Mrs Mette Frederiksen can drive a free ticket here today, but it does not last long, because the bill we agree on must be paid and which must be lifted into the Finance Act must be financed, and it must be financed by setting up the base tax, or by crowding out some other things, and I understand that the wish list is long. That is why we say that, in a situation where the conditions have gone, where, moreover, when we look at our share of the RE, we have largely already achieved the ambitions expressed in the energy agreement, it is sensible to look at whether there are some places where you can take the top of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132059	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132102	But you can't both at the same time. You cannot stand as the Prime Minister of the country and claim to maintain a high level of green ambition when you turn it down. Then you have to be honest and say that you want to compromise on it. Or you can choose the path we have chosen in the negotiations, namely that there is a bottom-up task in finding another funding. We want to go constructively into this, no free tickets. It is a task that needs to be undertaken, but we want to do so in such a way that we maintain Denmark's position of strength and that, as far as the Togfonden DK or the green conversion are concerned, we do not let Vestjylland sail in its own lake, because we need a Denmark that is connected. This requires jobs throughout Denmark. We believe this requires both a good infrastructure and the necessary investment, among other things. in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132149	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132151	I think that requires a lot of things. This presupposes, moreover, a balanced economic policy which does not use everything in this field, so that there is no bent penny to make a way forward, there are also roads out in Denmark where there is no money to support regional development, where there is no money to remove excise duties and other constraints on our industry. I think there's more to it than that. I'm gonna have to arrest this whole thing about us winding up something green. After all, we have no suggestion that there should now be a team and start to tear down wind turbines. We don't. In other words, we have a proposal that we should develop, i.e. continue to develop, among other things. Kriegers Flak. This is part of our proposal to a completely new offshore wind farm. So we're just saying that when the whole construction you've built up has split up and the money can't be charged the way you thought, and the bill has run away from us, we have to find a new way to lift the bill, and then it's natural to do a service check, where you can see if you can take the top of the bill, and we can do that while maintaining a green profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132254	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. We move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132301	Thank you for that, President. And thank the Prime Minister for his introductory words. Now we have already touched on the west coast of Jutland, in particular on Esbjerg, but close to Esbjerg, in Ribe, there is also a discussion, but this is about the area of foreigners. Yesterday, TV 2 was able to report about a Syrian who has been granted asylum in Denmark and who has now been given the right to have family relations with 17 of his 20 children for the time being. He has then only been allowed to bring one wife with him by the three, he believes to have the other two should then supposedly still be away in Syria. For us in the Danish People's Party, it illustrates very well that immigration policy is partly about what we have done together in recent months, namely tightened up a lot of rules, compared to how many people can or must come here, and introduced border controls, things which, thank God, have caused the number coming to Denmark to fall noticeably, and we in the Danish People's Party of course are very happy about that. But it also illustrates the fact that there is another aspect of foreign policy which is at least as important, and that is to ensure that the people who come here and who, during a temporary period, receive help, actually end up here temporarily. There it frustrates us in the Danish People's Party that the Prime Minister has chosen that the second part of the immigration policy should be about the need for full speed on integration, full speed on how a Syrian like him, who has now been given the right to have the 17 of his 20 children for Denmark, can be integrated into Danish society, instead of looking at how to help him until he can return to Syria, which should be the goal. That is why my question to the Prime Minister today at Question Time is how the Prime Minister will see to it that there is a return strategy which actually means that these people get the help in Denmark, but that they get it temporarily, and that they end up at home in their homeland again, when the opportunity is there, and not, as is otherwise the case, also with the tripartite agreement which we in the Danish Parliament dealt with in these weeks, namely that full force is being given to integration, full force on the element of staying here in Denmark permanently and even earning the benefit right with the so-called Igu association, for which the Prime Minister in the tripartite agreements has made himself a spokesman.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132524	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132527	Well, in my world, one doesn't rule out the other. I take full responsibility for the fact that we have drawn up a tripartite agreement which takes account of the fact that we must try to see whether we can, a little better than has been done historically, get those people who have come to Denmark and who have been granted asylum and who have a right to be here and who will be here for a period of time to earn their own money rather than to live on the money of the questioner and my money, to put it bluntly. I therefore believe that we can go hand in hand with the idea that people should be here on a temporary basis. This is among other things. Therefore, we have jointly extended the period from 1 year to 3 years • thus in the context of the temporary basis of stay which is an example of not only having been here for a short period of time can be granted permanent residence. And I'm completely open to going further that way. We'll be here in the autumn, and I can announce that already now to discuss how we do repatriation, and we'll be discussing various aspects of it. Some will be about how we make more demands on countries in the world that it should be something too much, because the problem we have seen historically when trying to send people back home is that if the countries do not want to cooperate, it is something near an impossibility. After all, many of the countries involved here are countries that are dependent on our aid, our assistance and our development aid. In future, we will have to demand that it be something for something that we need help as a country, and we must also be prepared to take our citizens back. It's just to mention one aspect. So I am actually very open to that discussion. I think you just go wrong in the city if you think it can be alone. So, we are facing some complex challenges, and unfortunately there is not a simple answer, so in my book we have to make sure, on the one hand, that people, while they are in Denmark, support themselves, otherwise we other people will have to do it, and, on the other hand, have a focus on the fact that when people no longer have a protection basis, they will of course have to go home again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132722	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132724	In these weeks, the Folketing is discussing a proposal that, if you have been here as a refugee, migrant and associated with the labour market for two years, you have also earned the right to benefit for the following two years. It is true that we have tightened up together, where we said that this temporary nature was extended from one to three years, but that means that the third year is then the time to receive daily allowances and has earned the right to two years' daily allowance in the Danish system. It is clear, then, that the individual must believe that Danish society is running the integration path as the decisive and not repatriation or repatriation strategy as the crucial thing. That is why it is so important to me that we have a clear return strategy and that we oblige the municipalities and others to draw up a return strategy for each of the refugees and migrants who have now arrived in Denmark. How else are we supposed to keep the individual's focus on that being what you have to do? Now that this Syrians from West Jutland have gotten the 17 of the 20 children to Denmark and they start going to school, and when the municipality starts a long integration effort, how are we going to maintain the return perspective, so that in a few years we can say: By the way, you are going home again? We must, of course, maintain that return perspective from day one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132845	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524132848	It is not the case that the right of residence is the same as the right of residence. I say that so that we do not take things too lightly. We have made a tripartite agreement, and we have made it with the social partners, employees and employers. It's just like making political agreements in here, you give, and you take. And we have wanted to create a system where you can enter the Danish labour market in a situation where you do not have the full qualifications relatively simple and for a wage that is not too high. We have had to have employees accept that. Of this, an agreement has been reached which provides for the acquisition of the right to benefit in connection with the EGU. That's the way it is. But it is not possible to conclude that you automatically have a residence basis. So I have to say that we need to find a way for these two things to go hand in hand. It is not so simple that one can solve it by one thing or another, i.e. by saying that we are integrating ourselves out of it. At least we have not been able to do so historically, because only three out of ten are in employment after three years. Yesterday there were figures showing that among the family members it was only 2 out of 10. Nor is it so simple that we can just put people behind a fence and feed them and then wait for the wars to end, and then we can return them. We cannot do that when we know that the international figures show that the refugees generated in the world community today are refugees for a number of years. So things have to go hand in hand. I have given a commitment here today that I would very much like to discuss a repatriation strategy, including with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133021	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133022	I still think most Danes who listen to this can see that it is difficult to keep the individual, for example. Syrians' ambition to come back when what we are really starting to do, after the Folketing has legalized this in these weeks, is that you enter the labour market, let's say for 49 kr. you have been there for 2 years, you have earned the right to 2 years' benefit, i.e. transfer income in the Danish system. There is not much return perspective on it, and that is why the Danish People's Party will insist that we have a clear return strategy, that for each of the people who have come to Denmark we have a plan for what it is about for the individual in terms of the perspective of coming back. For then the discussion about what competences we are pouring on people, on children, etc. will have a completely different content: what competences you need when you return one day. It is in this way that we can ensure that the individual Syrians I am talking about from Ribe, too, that I should say, be maintained with the perspective that he should return, instead of in two years' time coming on transfer income in Danish society and then be here forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133131	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133133	I am, in fact, very pleased that you are using the phrase about what competences you should have, because there is, after all, an openness for you to have some competences. In my world view, at least, if we simply put people into some camps and put them to wait for peace to sink so that they could be returned, the prospect of their coming home and making a positive difference would certainly not be there. That's why we have to attack this in several ways. I regret that it is not very simple. I also think that the people can understand that unless we make a demand on these people that they should work, only people, that is, the Danish population, will be able to pay the bill. I will not accept that. I will not accept that the room for manoeuvre we have fought to provide, among other things. In the case of some difficult reform decisions here in the Parliament, the pressure for refugees is being eaten up. That's why we need to get the number under control. We have worked on this, and we have managed to do so to some extent. It is currently under 100 per week, but now we have to make sure that it lasts all summer too, but at the moment it looks nice. We need to make sure that the people who are here work while they're here. And then I agree that there is a third element that is about the fact that when peace lowers when the basis for residence is no longer there, we need to find a way to motivate people to return home. We have not been much involved in this exercise now, but for the third time I give a commitment that we would very much like to discuss this, including with the Danish People's Party, in the new political season.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133255	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133303	Thank you. I would like to go a little back in time, not so far, just a little less than a year more during the election campaign. In fact, we could not get an answer on that exactly what the Left's ceiling on cash aid would mean. It wasn't because they weren't asked. There was just not really the answer so much or at least not with so much content. But something was actually quite clear, and it was that the Prime Minister at that time, loud and sacred on television, promised that he would never pursue a policy that sent children below the poverty line. After the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, the ceiling for cash aid was dealt with in the Folketing, and there we had so much difficulty in getting answers to what the consequences would really be. Although the Folketing asked how many children would smoke below the poverty line, the government could not actually answer. It could not do so until the ceiling on cash benefits was adopted. On Wednesday we were finally able to read in Berlingske after 7 months of reflection, and long after the bill was finally adopted, that the government's so-called modern cash aid ceiling will send 7,000 children below the poverty line. It is 7,000 children who will be poor compared to their peers; who cannot afford to go camping; who are left seven weeks in the housing block when all the others go on summer holidays; who cannot invite friends home because they are ashamed; who do not get healthy food on the table. They are children who grow up in loneliness and isolation and who often end up without education and more often in crime. This is what relative poverty means for children in Denmark. So my question is quite simple: when the Prime Minister said during the election campaign that he is never going to pursue a policy that brings children below that limit, how does that relate to the government's ceiling on cash aid, according to the Minister for Employment, sending 7 000 children below that very limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133529	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133530	According to the Ministry of Employment. May I first of all welcome Mrs Pernille Skipper here in this context. Congratulations on the mail. I'm looking forward to working together and counter-playing and co-playing and everything. Then comes the answer to the question: that is, basically, we do not recognise the way in which poverty was established by the previous government. It is an extremely static concept, and it is also difficult to calculate because it is based on some people who have been in a certain income range for three years. How to sit here today and calculate how people from now on and the next 3 years will stay in an interval is really a mystery to me, but that is what you have legal models for. I can only say that I do not dream of pursuing a policy that should send people below any poverty limits, and that is why our policy should not be judged on individual elements either. It must be assessed on the overall impression that we are putting, and it is a combination of having a ceiling on cash aid to create motivation to get into employment; that hopefully in the autumn we will be able to give some tax relief to people with small incomes; that we are pursuing an overall economic policy that makes there growth and that there is work to be done; and that we are pursuing a better foreign policy. Because if you read the answer given to the Folketing, it turns out that two thirds of these children can be related to immigrants and descendants of immigrants, and that is first and foremost evidence of a failed integration policy. We would also like to do better. So I simply do not accept that my policy should be crystallized into atoms which should be put on separate calculation formulae. It is the overall impression that counts, and the overall impression will be able to read when this parliamentary term is about to end. It also fits in with the fact that, from the entry into force of the ceiling on cash benefits, something similar to three years has gone by since it was introduced and, quite rightly, three years will have to pass before we are able to determine whether people meet the criteria to be defined as poor according to the methodology of the old government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133735	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133738	First of all, thank you very much for the congratulations and so on, that's great. I really, really want to discuss whether poverty disappears at some point by defining it differently. That is, of course, what the government is trying to do when it comes to tackling the problems by saying that there is no recognition of the poverty line. I believe that very few of the single parents and their children can use it for anything, that the government just stops calling poverty poverty poverty and removes the border. After all, there will be neither food on the table nor money for medicine or anything else for that matter. I would just like to stick to what the Prime Minister said during the election campaign, namely: I will never pursue a policy that sends children below that limit. That is what it sounded like, and with that limit it was referred to the then poverty line. Now the reality is that, according to the Ministry of Employment, 7 000 children fall below that limit. Would the Prime Minister not agree that that promise was made and that it will now be clearly broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133848	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524133849	Now I'm repeating myself. Our policy must be judged on our overall policy and on the overall impact of our policy. Then there is no point in taking out an element, and then you weigh it off, by the way, on the basis of some models which are based on some historical assumptions as to what the world looks like for the next three years. That's what you do. I simply do not accept that. I agree, once this parliamentary term has passed, to stand up for our economic policy. Yes, the ceiling on cash benefits is to create such an incentive with the hard hand. The tax relief this autumn should very much have been given with the soft hand and the positive hand, as it were. Then there is a focus on creating greater professionalism in primary school, so that we create some more social mobility, and on pursuing an alien policy that makes us do away with failed integration policies, because the vast majority of these children in these computational models are immigrant children. It is, after all, a reflection of a failed integration policy. At least we have to change that, and I would like to be the target of that. Having said that, we cannot eliminate poverty by defining it in a certain way, we can turn it around and say that we must now be careful not to define poverty simply by defining it in a certain way. In the numbers and in the models that lie, there are plenty of people who are mobile and who are moving. It is young people who are students and who get a job, and people who are temporarily unemployed and who get an employment again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134015	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134018	I mean, just to get it right: what the Prime Minister is saying right now is that the promise is still valid, namely that there will not be children below the poverty threshold which has, technically speaking, been removed, but from which we can still calculate things. Although it certainly looks as if this is a flagrant breach of the law, where one thing was promised before the elections, namely that children would not fall below the poverty line and where we now see something else, namely a ceiling on cash aid, which sends children below the poverty line, with all the consequences it has, then we other people just have to arm ourselves with patience, and then this will be fixed. So, can the Prime Minister confirm that there will be no more children growing up below that poverty line when elections are held next time than when the Prime Minister stepped in, and is that a promise we can count on this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134112	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134113	I cannot guarantee that. I think it's hard to guarantee that. Nor can I give a guarantee that there can be no single element in any policy that, if you calculate it, in this very technical way, falls out like this. We saw that under the previous government too. The cash aid reforms made by Mrs Mette Frederiksen also contributed negatively to creating more poor children. I think that when the previous government gathered together did what the effects were of the policy of the previous government, the previous government would not have sat on it, that it just created many more poor children. And it's kind of the same thing that applies here. I do not have an ambition to pursue a policy that drives people into poverty. On the contrary. I have exactly the opposite ambition: to pursue a policy that drives people to become self-employed, to be able to take care of themselves, to earn their own money, so that children have something to stand up to because parents stand up and go to work. That is the policy I want to pursue. The ceiling on cash benefits is part of what is in the toolbox, plus everything else. And I do have a dream and ambition and a hope that the effects of the government's overall policy will emerge over time, so that more people are in employment, fewer are on public support, more children are doing well in school and have a hope of having a better life. That is, in fact, my ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134228	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. We move on to Mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134234	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that it is interesting to hear the Socialist Group against the tax reduction that we decided together in the context of the financial legislation negotiations on vehicle registration tax. What we can never really get an answer to, and at some point we have to get them out of the bush, is to find out whether the Socialists are going to vote on raising the registration fee again. They want it up to 180%.? Will the left go to the polls to raise the registration fee again, or will they just thunder against what we others have agreed? I doubt they're going to go to the polls to raise the registration fee. But I think they should be smoked out of the bush at this point in time. Another question which in fact also relates to the Socialists and which is difficult to get a direct answer to here, but which is nevertheless interesting to get the Prime Minister's point of view, is that, as Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen was out here during the weekend, namely that a ceiling should be set on how many spontaneous asylum seekers we should accept in Denmark. The answer was that it had to be somewhere between 1,000 and 10,000, and that it had to be closer to 1,000 than 10,000. How does the Prime Minister view that view? In the Liberal Alliance, we are in fact very much in agreement. We have said that we must take 4 000 from the camps and then we must abolish the possibility of spontaneously seeking asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134359	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134400	So I do not think I am right to interpret the policy of the Social Democratic Party, and on this point it is probably a little unclear. I've seen a birthday interview and I haven't really seen anything since. I know that it is called Question Time with the Prime Minister, and I have readily answered everything, and now it is the last time, and therefore I am sorry to fail here in the end, but I cannot answer what the Social Democrats imagine. On the other hand, I can say something about what I think about numbers myself. It was the case that when we had elections last year, it was on a backdrop that there were about 15 000 asylum seekers the previous year. That's the number we kind of knew when we went to the polls. I said that it was too high and that we wanted to bring it down; it was more than Denmark could handle. Have we had it brought down? Not in the first place. We slowed down because we tightened up and we have therefore been able to see that the increase in Denmark has been much smaller than that seen in Sweden and Germany, but that does not shake the fact that last year we had too many asylum seekers. That's why we've tightened up. That is also why we have pressed for it. I welcome the fact that the European Union has now come so far that it has closed both in the Western Balkans route via a border facility for Macedonia, but also in the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which means that in January, when 60,000-70,000 from Turkey entered Greece, the figure was well down to around 3,000 in April. The policy is starting to work. And I hope that leads to a situation where we can see that the figures are falling, because they have to be significantly lower, and they should not be five figures. They're going down to something four-digit, that is, something called a thousand, which can be counted to a maximum. Two hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134548	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134550	Thank you for the preliminary answer. No, I would never dream of asking the Prime Minister to interpret the policies of the Social Democrats. That is why I also asked what the Prime Minister thinks about the proposal. So what is the position of the Left or the government to introduce such a maximum?? The truth is that the most humanistic thing is to stop the possibility of applying for spontaneous asylum in Denmark. And why is that, even though it immediately sounds like a nonhumanist view? It is, of course, because as long as you open that gate, you have an opportunity to come up here and try spontaneous asylum, what is happening? Then it happens that there is traffic going on up through Europe, where we know from those who came last year that 90%. of them searched through Europe through agreements with criminal networks, traffickers, etc. Those who are rewarded are the strongest, whereas the weakest are left behind. 3,500 drowned on the way up here trying to get to safety, and a large number of women are raped along the way. That is why we must put an end to this, and it is, of course, necessary to stop the possibility of spontaneous asylum and to break up with the conventions where they stand in the way. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister is ready to take part in this dispute with those conventions, because it is urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134705	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134707	Yeah, I guess it's a little more complex than that. I agree with the position underneath, because in this way it matches the policy we have had for many years, and that is why we have never had a view on open borders and closed boxes and such. We have always worried about looking after Denmark, which is why we have always said that the number matters. We have also consistently argued that more people in the neighbourhood can be helped. For every fugitive who comes up here, you'll be able to help a number of people at home in the neighborhood. That is the objective we must pursue, and so do we. That is why we have restricted the basis of residence to being temporary and that it is a 3-year period. That's why we've created border controls. That is why we in the European Union have advocated that the European Union begin to protect its external borders. And I am delighted about that, after all, is a view which is also beginning to gain ground. That is why we have seen the closure of the Western Balkans route now with a much lower number of asylum seekers for Europe. And that is something we must pursue in the future as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134814	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134817	The fact is that it is not enough to try to close the borders. Where there is a will, there is a way and there will be people who can cross those borders as long as they can see the goal, namely the possibility of seeking spontaneous asylum. That's why we have to go in and get that part and say it's stopping now. A clear signal must be sent down to the places from which people flee and flee, that it is not an option that the strongest should be able to be rewarded. For what is happening at the moment is, of course, that it is the strongest, those who come all the way up, who get an opportunity, and then we have no resources at all to take some from the camps in addition to it. Basically, the left, which is so enthusiastic about what the Canadian Prime Minister is doing, should perhaps dive into what he is actually doing, because when the Canadian Prime Minister actually accepts 25 000, which he picks from the camps, he is doing what we are proposing here. After all, no one is really seeking spontaneous asylum in Canada. What he does is that he chooses to take a number which actually amounts to approximately 4,000 a year, i.e. if you turn it into Danish relationships. That is the way we should go, and that is why I have to ask again: what about the conventions? Is the Prime Minister willing to go that way, because that is the way we have to go, in order to get rid of the fact that we can seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134935	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524134937	In the case of Canada, one must say quite quietly that one is protected by a geography that allows one to put this tool through, as Mr. Anders Samuelsen makes proposals, because there are not many spontaneous refugees coming to Canada. Where would they come from? The boat trip is just as long as it is. That is why we need to start from a reality and in the situation in Europe, in the geographical location of Europe. Therefore, it does not start with me standing here in a question hour saying that now Denmark is just stepping out of all international conventions. It starts with the fact that the European Union needs to understand the seriousness of this, that you cannot have another year of plus one million into Europe, and that is a serious matter. Has it taken too long? Yeah, it's taken too long. Are we in the finish line? No, we're not in the finish line, but it's going the right way. We are in the process of closing the Western Balkans route. As I said, the number dropped from 60,000 to 70,000 after my memory in January to 3,000 in April. It must be kept under observation. And that is the aim of saying that you cannot come from Syria into Europe spontaneously. You are returned against Europe taking a quota refugee instead. So, in this sense, we are massaging, you might say, the European mainstream position towards what the questioner also expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135108	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen Then we move on to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135120	Thank you. It is of course no surprise to the government and the Prime Minister that the alternative seems that the climate crisis is one of the most crucial if not the most significant in the last few months it has been possible to record that January was the hottest month of January ever measured on the planet. The same was true of February, the warmest month of February ever measured on the planet. And that's how it's actually been going all the way to this month, May. And I know that the Prime Minister has been to Greenland and has experienced the consequences of the climate challenges himself. What was remarkable in Greenland in April was that it wasn't just once that you experienced record measurements, it wasn't just 2 times or 3 times, no you did it actually 14 times in a row in April. For us, as I said, the climate crisis is what defines our whole way of understanding the challenges we face. It changes the whole way we think about economics and development, and also the way we think about security risks. So my first question to the Prime Minister is: on a scale from 1 to 5, where will the Prime Minister and the government place the climate challenges as the main political challenge or as a less important political challenge? On a scale of 1 to 5, where does the Prime Minister place the climate challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135254	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135256	I mean, where's the 5 most serious? Uffe Elbæk Yes). I find it difficult to answer questions like that. The climate challenge is a major and serious and global challenge because, in addition to having some implications for humanity in general in the long term, it also helps, if not handled properly, to generate poverty in Africa and thus a bad life for millions of people who will be inclined to move and move to seek a better life perhaps in Europe. So in this way it is related to the climate crisis is, after all, a corner of the refugee crisis, which is a corner of the democracy crisis in Africa and elsewhere. It is a heavy problem and I do not know why I should put figures on it. Well, if it's the case that there's room for more than one five, then for me there's no problem with saying five, but there's other problems that come up with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135406	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135407	It is very nice, indeed remarkable, to hear the Prime Minister say that the climate crisis and the climate challenges are one of the crucial challenges we face. I was also pleased that the leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, indicated the same thing just now. In other words, there is a certain amount of verbal agreement that this is absolutely crucial. And that is not just something we are saying in this Chamber. The World Bank came out with a recent report, including: I quote: the cost of climate disasters has increased ten times in 30 years, the number of people affected by climate disasters has tripled in the last 30 years and climate change will in the future force millions and millions to flee. So, on the one hand, we have these very clearly documented challenges and, on the other hand, we have a government which, when we talk about green priorities, has backed up at least a large number of areas. There is a deterioration in the electricity market in relation to taxes, the downgrading of Denmark's CO2 So how are we to interpret these verbal statements on the one hand and then, on the other hand, the political downgrades of the green area? Well, how are we supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135541	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135543	I think it should be interpreted in such a way that the world is facing major and heavy problems, and Denmark cannot solve them alone. We must make our contribution and it must be a balanced contribution. There's also a problem with poverty, okay. Yes, we have also reduced our development aid. Should we then, if we said that poverty is very, very important to combat, spend 100 per cent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Or should we need 100 per cent? of our GNP on green conversion, so that we took this world challenge seriously? It can't be like that. After all, we need to find our balanced starting point in the world around us, especially when we talk about part of the green transition, how many of the commitments that are being made are some that are being created in Europe and how dynamic it is that if one country does more, another EU country can do something less. Well, that's what's the dynamics of part of this. And that's why we have to do a lot of things at the same time. After all, we also have to fight to ensure that we have some prosperity, so that we also have a generation of GNP that can make it attractive for us to provide development aid to Africa. After all, life consists of finding balances, and I do not accept that we back on the green. Well, I can accept that we are moving a little faster than what was in some plans that cannot be done because the foundations have fallen below them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135721	Yes, please! Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135723	Of course, I hear what the Prime Minister says, I just completely disagree. And the world looks at Denmark and certainly does not see the same picture as the Prime Minister does. In other words, when you talk to employees at the UN, they say that they do not understand at all that Denmark, when we have had this green front-runner position, today lowers ambition, while the UN, that NASA, that all around you say that we must increase ambition. There is something in the logic that I certainly cannot understand and that the world certainly cannot understand, but which the government can clearly understand. The last question I would like to ask is, on behalf of the members of the Alternative, who also have a wonder, or at least a question, namely: what action does the government intend to take now, when it has chosen to abolish the solar system, so that we are once again helping to support renewable energy development in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135827	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135829	So I have no experience that the world has difficulty understanding what position Denmark has. So, quite recently, I myself took part in a meeting in Washington in which, among other things, there was a meeting. an agreement was reached between the Danish authorities and the US authorities to share best practice on the entire wind turbine technology, recognising that Denmark is a front runner nation in this field. Sometimes I get so sad that we have to talk ourselves down. And I know that I am not allowed to ask questions, but is it the whole state budget that we need to spend on green conversion, so that we have an adequate level of ambition, or is it just half of it? Is it the entire state budget that we have to send to Africa in order for us to have a decent development policy, or is it just half of it? Excuse me, I am asking, but you have to find a balance, and you also have to make sure that the economy is linked for our children and our grandchildren so that they can make their own arrangements. That's how I look at it. That is actually the answer, but now my speaking time has expired on the second question. After all, there is a circle of conciliation parties currently looking at how, in a situation where the bill has run a little from us, we can make the bill fit, while maintaining a green ambition. And in this context, we must also discuss whether solar cells can be included. For one of the reasons why the hole occurred in that box is, of course, that there has been a technology break, where this solar technology has suddenly become very, very inexpensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524135955	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. We move on to Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140007	I think the PM's tone was a little sharp in the end. I would like to suggest that perhaps a workplace assessment should be carried out. This is something we have rolled out all over the country where you can see how the employees are doing and how they are doing. I don't know if anyone is making MUS conversations with the Prime Minister, but I have a feeling that there might well be a little Christiansborg allergy, that is, that there is something that upsets life when the Prime Minister enters Prince Jørgens Gård or here at Christiansborg in the Folketing, because it seems as if you are carrying out a modern version of the old game, which you could then call lowering flagships. Because outside the world you are busy with, most recently in the White House, and praise for it, to tell about the great and beautiful achievements that have been with the green transition in Denmark, about our liberalism in relation to homosexuals etc. etc. You pride yourself on that, but when you come back to Denmark and approach Christiansborg, the government chooses to pull the plug on some of the flagships that have made us so famous. It is hard to understand for people who today make a living from the fact that we have invested in the green transition that creates jobs, even in some of the parts of Denmark where it is not always easy what it is for a prime minister who is one moment standing at a festive occasion and shames the green transition for as soon as you approach Christiansborg and the allergy sets in, so to pull the plug on the flagship and say that now we must no longer build the coastal windmills. That's why there's a question burning in me. If the ambition is not just for the festive occasions, then we must stick to the broad cooperation we have had on energy policy, which not only stretches between the parties in here but also extends outside the business community. That is why I just want to ask the Prime Minister quietly: can you take the Prime Minister at his word? Is it the case that when we have finished figuring out how to finance the green transition, so that it is EU-sustainable, it is the same ambition that we have, so that we maintain the intensity of the conversion of Danish energy so that it becomes more green and sustainable in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140218	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140220	Now you can express and assess ambition in many ways. Because if you count it on VE share and something like that, I think we have already achieved the ambitions that were formulated back in 2012. Is that supposed to make us say we don't have to do any more? No, it shouldn't. I'd just like to take a fight with the idea that I should've gotten anything out of my mind. I haven't, because it's far from me to stand and shame myself. I would do that if I stood there and congratulated the green transition, because my party has been involved in the government. We've been in government in this country in something that looks like 11 years out of the last 15 years. I know that you want to draw that picture that when a red government comes, it turns green, and when another government comes, it turns brown, but it's a, excuse my plain language, a lie story, because we've been perpetually pursuing this ambition over a generation and still doing so. Then there is a question of pace, which, in the real world, we have to reconcile with economic capacity, and that is what this is all about. We are in the situation where the way in which we have financed the green conversion is known to be wrong. We need to find a new way to do this. Basically, we can choose between taking it into the Finance Act or starting to send money out of the country, and then you might start to approach something that could be characterised as Ebberød Bank. That's why the government says it's probably better to take the money into the Finance Act, and then we'll have to, when we have to take the money into the Finance Act... we might even have to go to the Danes and ask them to pay something extra in tax... to see if we can take the top off the bill. That's what we're working on. It's going on when we're asked whether it's gonna be broad, after all, in the circle of parties that have this deal with each other. I also hope that it will end there that we will find a balanced solution to maintain the green transition, give a boost to Danish business, because we will remove the PSO, which is a burden for them, since other countries have not chosen to do so in the same way as we do, and which does not make it unnecessarily expensive to be a Dane. That is the balance we must strike.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140422	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140422-2	In any case, it has to be said that the green transition, and not least the one in the electricity sector, has served Denmark very well. We are very well in relation to the price level, even when we consider the costs and the charges. But I am glad that the Prime Minister here confirms that there is an energy dispute, and we must stick to that. I don't understand the reaction at all. I think that the Prime Minister should dress up the green driver's shirt on every festive occasion and shame all the parties that have taken responsibility, also like its own. I think that should be done on every occasion. It is just important that there is action behind the words when you come back and conduct the policy. This is also the case with the Train Fund DK. Because I understand that the Prime Minister is very concerned that what has been said before an election and after the elections and such things must be linked. I therefore believe that it is precisely the present Prime Minister who has previously regarded it here with the hour model as a flagship in public transport, and I would just like to ask whether it is still the ambition of the Prime Minister, the ambition of the Left, that the flagship in public transport should be an hour model for travelling between the major cities of not more than one hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140536	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140537	Now I just broke up the word "saccharose." That means praise uncritical and exaggerated, for example. to ridicule or to indulge, according to the Danish Dictionary. That's why I just have to repeat myself from before. I do not want to go and shame myself or anyone else, but I understand that this is a particularly radical discipline. I'll take note of that. As far as the hour model is concerned, we have an ambition that we have efficient train operation in Denmark. I myself have originally been involved in formulating this vision with others, that wouldn't it be great if it took 1 hour to drive between our main cities? It then meets a two-dimensional reality. One dimension is that if you are completely focused on 1 hour being 1 hour that is 1 hour, then it becomes very, very expensive. This is among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation in the area of road transport, where we have to invest something which, according to my memory, looks like 4 billion. kr., to win relatively few minutes. Should we insist on the number of hours, or should we also have common sense in relation to the economy? That is one dimension, and the other dimension is that the money is not there. That is why we have a bottom-up task among many that we have taken over from the previous government, with promises that have been made without substance, and we must find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140653	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140656	Yes, promises without content. So, it was the Prime Minister who wrote in 2008 that the flagship in public transport in Denmark should be an hour model, so it took a maximum of 1 hour to get between the big cities and preferably less. That was the promise, I assume, to the Prime Minister, as it was his own words in a chronicle in Jyllands-Posten in 2008. Since then, we have carried out a reorganization of the North Sea tax, which means that today there is more money available to invest in public transport than when the Prime Minister wrote his chronicle. So there is a two-digit number of billions more money available. That is why the question is quite simple: does what the Prime Minister said at the time in 2008 about the flagship in public transport in Denmark, or is it the case that those ambitions are also being abandoned now, when Christiansborg allergy has been introduced and you have been given the opportunity to act? After all, we hear great words about the need to create room for manoeuvre for the important investments. Well, then it's important to know what we're aiming for. Is the Prime Minister aiming to make his words of 2008 a reality, or was it one of those empty promises that one is otherwise busy warning against?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140810	Before the Prime Minister answers, we need to calm down the discussions in the corner. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140816	Thank you. Well, I thought it was nice if you could take the train to Aalborg in 3 hours and to Aarhus in 2 hours and to Odense in 1 hour. I think so, but it must of course be kept up to what it is for an investment to achieve that objective in relation to what is, moreover, under pressure. If you look at the infrastructure, you see that there are other things pushing you on. If, for example, you're gonna have to... driving a trip up East Jutland on the motorway, you can see that it has hit its capacity limit. If you go further into Jutland, there would be a fantastic perspective in being able to create a growth highway through Jutland around Billund and further up. So we can have many dreams and ideas, and then they have to be kept up against the complex reality where the money has to reach. What we have to say is quite quietly about the Danish Railway Fund is that it is based on some assumptions about an oil price that does not last - not only does it not last, it does not last at all. That is why the money is not there, and then we have to take on that task, although it would be more fun not to look at where we can then adjust these projects down so that the money can reach. Because if we do not do so, we will displace the opportunity to invest as much as a penny, for example. in motorway facilities, and I have mentioned two candidates here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140944	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Østergaard. We move on to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524140951	Thank you. I was going to start somewhere else, but the Prime Minister loved to talk about the Train Fund DK, so I'm gonna follow up anyway. What the government is up to is that people who live in Herning will not get electric trains in the future, and that means that you do not come by direct trains from Copenhagen to Herning, but have to change in Vejle. It is suggested that we no longer have a fast train to Esbjerg or Herning. What does that mean for people who, for example: Do you live in Thisted? Today the trip takes 6 hours. In the future, it would have taken 31⁄2 hours. I think that is a little too bad for the West Jutlanders, but I would like to know whether that is really what the Prime Minister is planning or whether there might be a tiny opening somewhere. Well, back to what I wanted to ask. There is a huge difference in the life expectancy of the Danes. If you take a trip with the S-train now the train comes again from the South Harbour to Gentofte, there is a difference of 7 years in life expectancy. The difference is 13 years in the only 7 km up in Aalborg, between the wealthy town of Hasseri and Aalborg East, as we have seen in DR's documentary. There is therefore an enormous inequality in the Danish population in relation to life and quality of life. Of course, this has a number of reasons. But one thing that's pretty crucial to this is how many people actually rarely go to the doctor. Their disease is discovered far too late. Preventive action will never be initiated. This makes both their subsequent treatment long and quite expensive for society, and it also puts them outside the labour market too early. This leads to a deterioration in the quality of life, and it also results in premature death. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he believes that it will cause more people to go to the doctor in time if, as the Left has suggested, user charges are introduced for medical visits. And does the Prime Minister consider that it will increase or reduce the inequality in life and quality of life when introducing user fees with the doctor?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141150	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141152	However, I am not aware that the Left has made any suggestion in the Assembly that user charges should be introduced to go to their own doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141201	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141204	Well, that's amazing. In any case, I am sure that the government does not intend to change its ambitions in relation to the Train Fund DK. It's all back. But I think the government owes the West Jutlanders a very clear answer to that. However, as far as user charges are concerned, the Left has reported several times that it is the policy of the Left to introduce user charges. It may not be a bill in the Parliamentary Chamber, but it is actually tabled many times. Now the Prime Minister says that the Left has not proposed it. But is the Prime Minister planning to make a proposal on this? And can one totally reject the fact that funding for top tax relief will come from an increased user fee on medical visits or any other form of medical treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141249	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141251	I can certainly reject the latter, because there has not been such a proposal. There have then been some discussions in our party, that is to say, the party of which I am a member, which I think we also have in other parties, we have at least a free debate on whether this is a wise way of charging user charges. For now this picture is drawn here. If we take this seriously, one might ask where we have problems with health inequalities. We have a lot of places. One of the places we have it is, for example. in dental care, where there is a marked difference between what it is for dental hygiene and dental sets you have, depending on what it is for a life situation you find yourself in. Okay, we have a huge user charge for dental visits. The discussion that has taken place in my party, and I agree with that, because I think it is a thought-provoking discussion, is whether it is a wise way of doing it or whether one could imagine that without having to charge another five cents in user charges, it did so intelligently, for example. So you followed this idea of equality, and then you saw, for example. could make it cheaper for people without income to go to the dentist • that would promote equality in health • that some others would then have to pay for going to the doctor. There has been such a discussion, and I am happy to accept it. The government doesn't have a proposal. And in any case, even if we had a proposal, it would never go to finance any tax relief whatsoever, because what has been discussed alone is whether what is being taken into account in user charges is happening in the right places.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141422	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141423	It is true that we have user charges in parts of our health services, dental care, but there are, of course, certain groups that are completely exempt from user charges. When the SF sat in government with the Social Democrats and Radicals, we were just looking at the fact that some of those who earn the most money should have the opportunity to go to the dentist if they, for example, were to go to the dentist. have serious diseases. But now the Prime Minister brings it up and says that you can look at it in relation to other parts of health. That's what the Prime Minister said. I just want to make sure. The Prime Minister is saying that the government has no proposal and that the Left has some internal discussions and peace is not about internal discussions. We do not have internal discussions in my party about user charges for health, but peace be with you having it in the Left, you may have it. But what I think is crucial is, of course, whether one could imagine that the Left would at any time come up with a proposal to introduce user charges on health, on medical visits. The reason I ask is that I do not think it is very clear what the government will do to improve life expectancy; what will be done to reduce health inequalities. On the other hand, I think it is clearer that the government is doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141531	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141533	I think it is a little sin and regrettable, and moreover not characteristic of the way in which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr usually asks, to spend this time so destructively by standing up and drawing up some picture, when one apparently really cares about something quite different, namely how we create more equality in health care. That's one of them. what lies behind the initiative taken by the Minister of Health around dementia, because we can see it is just a small example of the fact that there is so much diversity in the offers made by the municipalities that you get a little depending on which postal code you live in, one or the other treatment. It is, of course, such a dimension to this that I would like to discuss constructively. I can say clearly, as I said in the election campaign, that in this parliamentary term, before we meet the Danes again, we are not making a proposal to introduce user charges on health. I have said this very clearly. I have then said just as clearly in the election campaign, but we have now made no suggestion as to whether we are doing so yet, I do not know that what we might be minded to do was to get some to sit down and look at the wisdom of the way we collect user charges in the Danish health service. Because it's a myth that we don't have user charges. We actually have as much user charges as in most comparable countries, but we have put it on the teeth and on a few other services, as opposed to what you do elsewhere. However, I can give an assurance here that we will not make any proposal on user charges during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141659	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141706	Thank you. Violence, gross violence, ruthless peril, extortion, threats, witness threats, violence against officials, possession of weapons, enrichment crimes, including theft and trick theft, and false testimony. These are just some of the 26 convictions that have fallen on Gimi Levakovic since his 18th birthday. The man is not born in Denmark, he is not a Danish citizen, he does not contribute to the Danish labour market. On the contrary, he alone contributes to Denmark becoming a worse place to live and live in. I'd like to read aloud from an e-mail I received. The sender wants to be anonymous. I understand when I read the e-mail. The person writes: "I don't know who to write to, and I write in some form of impotence. As I see your statement on Twitter, I understand your dissatisfaction. I have lived underground for 4 years and may leave my own country if I want a fairly normal life because Levakovic is now allowed to stay in Denmark. The whole family has been blackmailing me for a long time when I was living in Copenhagen. I have since moved around the country, but the family, which is huge, always manage to find me. I've gone to the police several times, saying they're having a hard time doing something for me. I'm devastated by the Supreme Court ruling, and I don't know if you can use my story for anything. But if one day I have to leave Denmark because of this family, I will never look back. Another embarrassing case for Denmark, unfortunately. ▪ In many ways the person describes a impotence and frustration that I actually think many Danes are sitting with after they have heard of the judgment. Outside, and I also think within these thick walls, people are wondering how we've got a community that's holding hands under criminal types from Shadow Denmark, while people who are contributing whether it's a cook from Fanoe or an engineering student in Herning can be sent out of the country. Major criminals are allowed to stay, and I understand from the Prime Minister that the government will now take the initiative to tighten the expulsion rules. Better late than never. When this majority appears to represent that we are going to do so, I want to hear the Prime Minister: how long must we wait before they are tightened and how quickly can it take place so that we can get reasonableness and respect back into our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141931	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524141934	Thank you. As far as the position is concerned, I would like to say that I fully agree with you. I also want a Denmark that is open to those who can and will and closed to those who will not. We people, most of whom we are, are sometimes surprised that the rules are designed in such a way that people think: you should do everything possible to make them stay. They're gonna have to get out of here. And people, whoever you think, what they're doing here, are so protected. So I can easily understand that impotence. We must then act on this with respect for the fact that the country is a state governed by the rule of law. We're not the ones making these personal decisions. It is the Supreme Court that has delivered a specific judgment. I cannot do much more than take note of that. But, of course, we will do what we can in the future to ensure that criminal foreigners are expelled as far as possible. That is also why we believe that it was a mistake for the previous government to relax the rules. We will make that right. That is why we will immediately put forward proposals in the new session to reinstate the words 'with security' in the expulsion rules, so that the bell-clear signal is sent that expulsion should only be omitted in cases where it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. This is the sharpening that we will propose, and the Folketing will meet again immediately. And I am counting on the support of the fact that the proposal we are going to make is based on a common policy and an irritation that the previous government has softened the rules on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142115	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142117	I have full support for this, I can at least promise in advance, and I will also follow the matter to the door, because what we have seen is grotesque. Now that we are reasonable and respectful, I would like to hear the Prime Minister's comment that it has come to light that there are several officers who say that they need to acquire their own equipment in order to feel they are dressed for the task. We have recently made a police settlement in which we have secured more resources for the police. We are, of course, glad that we think it has been drawn in the right direction, but I think most people can see that, this year, the resources of the police have already been very high. You can take border controls as an example. We also think that this is necessary, but now that so much resources are being drawn there, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he has the stories that are coming forward and we must have looked into it further, I agree, will be ready to say within the conciliation period that if it is necessary to further strengthen the police, we will have to find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142220	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142223	In any case, it should not be the case that, in order to do your job, you have to make your own investments. It has been said quite in principle. I do not know the details of the examples that are presented, I suggest that they be taken up with the Minister of Justice. After all, a certain buffer has already been agreed in the police agreement we have concluded, as I am told. That's one of them. the one that has been compromised in relation to the recent discussions that have been about relieving the police because of border controls. So I am not going to rule that out, but I have to point out that we are having this discussion with the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142307	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142310	We will be happy to do so. Now we see inappropriate young people acting threateningly in different places in our country. Most recently we saw it at Nørrebro at the now famous Mucki Bar, where we saw young people behaving threateningly. And that's just one thing out of a lot of really, really many people where we see young people, very young people who just haven't understood what it's like to behave in order to behave in this society. Then I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether it was not time for us to speed up what we agree on together: a juvenile low age and a juvenile court for young people from 12 to 17 years of age, when the bandit is running and doing something in town, that is to say it has a consequence, instead of believing that everything can be solved with talk and educational conversations. Does the Prime Minister agree that there is an urgent need for us to implement together what we went to the polls and, if so, this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142415	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142417	This year we have two meanings in our world, both the parliamentary year and the calendar year, and the parliamentary year is about to come to an end. But it is the case that the Minister of Justice is working on a proposal to deal with juvenile criminals in order to be able to put forward a proposal in the new parliamentary year, but in this calendar year. It was a long way from saying that after the summer holidays, the government will play out with a proposal on how we deal with this challenge, which is a little paradoxical, compared to the fact that at one and the same time we have more and more young people who are free of crime and who, by the way, look after their school and do everything well, and then we have a hard group which may also tend to become harder and harder and which we need to do something more effectively. The Minister of Justice is gonna come up with a proposal in the fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142508	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, thank you to the Prime Minister. This is the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting on the basis of the vote by approx. Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524142954	The sitting is resumed. The Minister for Transport and Building (Hans Christian Schmidt) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Draft law amending the law on the carriage of goods, the law on bus services and the law on taxi services, etc. L 118). Does anyone wish to record this bill? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143039	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143105	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 71 by Benny Engelbrecht (S), René Christensen (DF), Jacob Jensen (V), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Johansen Lebech (RV) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 20 (EL, ALT and SF). Proposal for adoption No V 71 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 70 of Rune Lund (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143246	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 74 by Carsten Bach (LA), Karin Gaardsted (S), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and Aleqa Hammond (SIU). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 89 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and SIU) voted against, 0 abstentions 23 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 74 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 72 by Mr Søren Espersen (DF) and motion for a resolution No. V 73 of Christian Juhl (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143448	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143516	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 16 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143548	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143616	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. We shall conclude the vote. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143650	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143714	The final adoption of the proposal will be put to the vote again, and we will start the vote now. That concludes voting time. In favour of 20 votes (EL, ALT and SF), against 68 abstentions (S, V, LA, RV and KF), 23 abstentions (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143832	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143857	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143916	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524143944	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144008	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144034	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 20 (EL, ALT and SF), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 5 (RV). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. After the rejection of Amendment No. I consider Amendment No 4 to be acceptable. 13, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Twelve, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-7, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and SF)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 20 (EL, ALT and SF), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 5 (RV). The amendment has been rejected. I now turn to Amendment No 3. 9, 17 and 18, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10 and 11, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF)? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14-16, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF)? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 19-22, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144351	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144412	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF) that the draft law is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The proposal referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code]. years etc.PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the CF)? It's agreed. The proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of the Minister for Transport and Building, elected by a minority (DF, V and LA), and a vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of voting 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144538	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Pernille Skipper of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144603	I would just like to take the floor for a small comment and say that the Enhedslisten, together with the Alternative, has tabled an amendment on which we are going to vote now and which is extremely important. Of course, we support the increased focus of the government and the Minister for Justice on rape. It is really, really needed, and a very good work has actually been started, for which the Minister of Justice should be commended. We have a problem with the fact that far too few rape victims dare to report rape, and for those who actually do, far too few cases ever reach trial. At the same time, it is a form of crime which is still marked by both guilt and shame, not only when victims meet authorities, but also when they meet relatives and the surrounding society. These are systemic errors, these are cultural problems that we must overcome. However, the amendment is about separating this bill, because where this bill really makes a mistake, there is where the bill links an increased penalty for rape with an increased penalty for false rape. So it is almost between the lines that there should be a special connection, and we believe that this is to increase the suspicion of the victims of rape. Because there is no indication that in the field of rape there should be more false reports. On the contrary. And if you blow to that myth and you do that with this bill by connecting the two things you risk increasing the suspicion of victims of one of the most horrible crimes you can imagine. In fact, those victims are already deeply reluctant to ask society for help. We are therefore very, very reluctant to contribute to this suspicion. There are already far too few women who dare to report rapes. We should not have blown to some false idea that there should be many more false reviews in relation to other crimes, because that is not true. So the proposal is simply about dividing up the bill. It's really, really important. And even if we are going to vote for both, we should at least send out the very clear signal that the two things are by no means connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144843	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524144853	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL and ALT), joined by a minority (DF, LA, RV and SF), that the bill is divided into two proposals. A vote can be taken now. We shall conclude the vote. For 56 votes, we try again, and then all Members have to be awake when we vote. We will have a new vote and we will be able to vote now. That concludes voting time. In favour 56 (DF, EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (S, V and KF), abstentions 0. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. You guys need to be a little quiet so you can hear what I'm saying. After the draft law is now divided, Amendment No 2 lapses. 3 by the Minister of Justice, joined by a minority (S, V and KF). The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the criminal code]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF) and can now be voted on. The vote is now closed. In favour of 31 (DF and LA), against 80 (S, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524145207	Does anyone wish to speak? I can hear that there are many who want to speak, but not here from the platform. So since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524145318	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524145340	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524145419	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524145457	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524145521	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF have proposed, with motion for a resolution B 117, to cancel all planned savings in SKAT for 2017, i.e. Next year, and forward in connection with the Finance Act 2017. The proposers propose to finance the initiative of reintroducing the soda-ash levy. It can be said at the outset that the three parties are embarking on a little discussion on the 2017 Finance Act at a slightly early stage. Of course, they should be welcome to do so. I choose to take it positively and see it as an eagerness to be included in the 2017 Finance Act, but it will not be presented until autumn and dealt with in the next Assembly. In addition, I would like to start by pointing out that I agree with the proposers that it is essential that SKAT has the necessary framework and framework conditions to operate and develop an effective tax administration. Therefore, the government also regularly takes stock of SKAT's funding and task portfolio and looks at whether there is a connection between the tasks that SKAT can solve and the frameworks and resources available. This ongoing take-up of the balance is also the reason why, in my time as tax minister, additional substantial resources have been allocated to SKAT in the context of the resolution of key tasks such as the development and implementation of a new property assessment system and a new recovery system, but I also have to say that I, as tax minister, want the government also to ensure that the funding is sustainable, which is not my view and that of the government with regard to the source of funding that the three parties point out, namely the reintroduction of the soda-ash levy. A re-establishment of the soda-ash levy, which was otherwise abolished under the previous government, with the support of among others. My party will have unfortunate consequences for Danish business. We know that re-establishment will increase cross-border trade and it will reduce the conditions for Danish producers. There is one further argument, and I know that this is an argument which may not mean so much to the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, but it means a great deal to the government, and it is also my impression that it actually means a great deal to some of the parties who sat in the previous government. At least it was also a principle that they enforced on various occasions, namely that there is a tax freeze, and the proposal breaks with the tax freeze, which is set out to create financial security and stability for citizens of this country. As I have said, the government is concerned to ensure that SKAT has the necessary financial framework in this area, so we agree with the proposers to ensure that there is what is needed to solve the tax tasks satisfactorily, and therefore the government is constantly examining whether SKAT needs additional resources. There is no doubt about that, too, I would like to say openly and honestly that there is very much pressure on the SKAT. It is relevant to discuss whether key functions in the tax administration can be strengthened. I, too, as Minister for Taxation, have been given the task of cleaning up various tasks and problems that have arisen, some years ago, when my party was in government, and some under the previous government. A significant part of my time goes on solving some of the operational challenges, and this will lead us, when we have an overview of it, to discuss whether we can find the means to add additional resources to the tax administration. There is also a desire in the Folketing about this in a number of policy areas, tax havens and other areas. What matters is that we have to find a source of funding with which 90 mandates agree. If I am going to mention one of the areas which, at any rate, will be on the agenda of the Danish Parliament at a later date and will also be very soon, perhaps before, perhaps on the other side of the summer holiday, then it is the customs area that we have also discussed in the Chamber in the past. SKAT is faced with a very resource-intensive task as a result of the implementation of the EU Customs Code, a Customs Code which, of course, has direct legal effect in Denmark, that is. that we are obliged to implement some things, that there is a bill that needs to be picked up in order to comply with the rules on common customs rules, rules that will create a uniform treatment of customs duties and can create competitive power across the labour force of the EU countries in Denmark and other EU countries. So basically a sensible task, but where there is, of course, a bill that has not been picked up under the previous government, which needs to be picked up in the future. And I hope we can do that together in the Folketing. In addition to the discussions on SKAT, we have also had discussions on the Tax Appeal Board in connection with the legal certainty package II. There is a political desire to look at the appropriations available to reflect the volume of tasks and to see whether any procedural guarantees can be introduced. It also requires some funding, and that is where it is crucial for the government that the funding is reasonable. We cannot agree to finance a resource supply such as the one which the parties are proposing here by reintroducing the soda-ash levy. But this is an issue that I want to discuss under the auspices of the comprehension behind theskat out of the crisis. It is a debate which will certainly also be in the context of a future financial law, where we need to find out what political priorities we want to give to the parties that then have a financial law. However, for good reasons, I cannot go into this in detail, since the proposal for a financial regulation will only be presented on the other side of the summer holiday. But with that argument and with that in mind, in other words, recognition of the premise referred to, but rejection of the source of funding, I have to say that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150137	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150142	The SKAT budget this year is 4.9 billion. kr. In 2019 it will be over 500 million. kr. lower if it's not the case that a majority of this Parliament stops the planned savings. Once we have seen what it has cost the Danes the box in the past that SKAT has been saved to pieces, you can understand what the reason for this proposal is. As far as funding is concerned, it is indeed the case, as we also describe in the comments, that we believe that the employees of the SKAT will be self-financing. We are also so kind as to indicate how we could finance these 600 million. kr. a year by abolishing a tax which is a very small part of a soda-ash price but which costs 600 million. kr. a year. But what I really want to ask the tax minister is that SKAT's employees can earn their living, namely whether the tax minister can confirm that there is a digital management tool in SKAT, where you can see down on the individual employee how much the individual employee drags home to SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150243	I simply cannot answer that question. This is the first time I have heard about this tool, but I will look into it. Sir. Rune Lund can ask a written question, and I shall then reply as part of the committee's proceedings. You can't put it in such a way that you can just add 10,000 employees to the IRS, and then they serve themselves home. Of course, you can make a business case on a few employees in a few areas, and that is a fair political discussion. After all, we agree in the Danish Parliament that what we consider to be the financial calculations made under the auspices of the officials at Slotsholmen is the Treasury Department, and that is the Ministry of Finance and there you cannot make such a business case, where you can finance more tax employees. The previous government had to deal with this, and I, as the tax minister, also have to deal with it. Then I just want to point out that additional funds have been added to SKAT here in 2015 and 2016. This means that the framework that can be seen in the Finance Act is no longer fair because additional appropriations have been made available, among other things. with the support of Enhedslisten in the Finance Committee. So more money has come to SKAT both in 2015 and 2016 than was provided for in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150354	I would like to return to this point of hiring more employees in the SKAT, because it makes good financial sense. And there is a digital management tool in SKAT, where you can see down to the individual employee how much the individual employee pulls in. If that is the case, will the Minister not enter into a dialogue with the Tax Committee that, for each area, we are looking at how much the individual employee earns and that, on that basis, we are discussing together how many extra employees we could hire in SKAT, so that it would not just go straight up, but would actually mean a substantial additional revenue for the Danish Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150432	I always like to have a dialogue with the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee, but you also have to see things in a whole. You can select individual areas and then come up with a business case there, but if it involves a very high cost for the companies you control or the citizens you control, then it is the question of whether the socio-economic accounts go up in the end. That is one of the points made by the DOR and I have already replied to Mr Delors. Rune Lund in writing. But I recognise that in some areas such a one could be allocated more resources, but it is not the same as 1 to 100 or 1 to 1,000 or 1 to 10,000 can do the same. But I am happy to enter into dialogue with the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150508	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150514	Thank you. It is perhaps a little unfair that we should drag the tax minister into the Chamber on this proposal, because it has not been the case for decades that it has been tax ministers who could pull money out of the treasury when you thought that some extra money should be spent on taxes. After all, it is the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and this has been the case for many, many years. But if we addressed the Minister for Finance, he would probably refer the matter to the Minister for Taxation. So we have to. But I shall now turn to my question. The tax minister says that the funding must be sustainable. And what we are dealing with right now is a huge problem with the financing of our welfare societies. For not only do we have a tax fraud case for at least 10 billion. kr., now the whole area of negative VAT is also being culed because there has been a huge increase. I am afraid, unfortunately, that one scandal after another is lurking, which drains the treasury, but which is also very dangerous to the common morality one must have in order to pay the tax that one now has to pay in a country that is tax-financed in that way, regardless of what one thinks about the level of taxation. SF isn't part of this so-called Borg Peace as the other parties are. We are not, together with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, not because we do not want to help the tax minister; this is, of course, a common matter, but because we think there was far too little funding. That is why I have to ask the Minister again, now that there are also new notes from DF and Social Democracy: do we not have to invest here? Isn't it going to be too expensive if we don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150649	It is sensible to invest in SKAT and there will be a number of areas to be invested in. If you read the SKAT out of the crisis, which I presented in the autumn, you can see that there are some areas that are in need. That is also why, in 2015, the government added 267 million. kr. to SKAT • in addition to what was decided on the Finance Act for 2015, which was not our Finance Act, but the former government's Finance Act, and the previous government was supported by SF. In 2016, we have among other things. Through the records of the Finance Committee and most of them, there has been broad support for the contribution of 313 million. kr. In addition to the planned allocation of 4.9 billion. kr. I think we will see that there will be more funding for SKAT in order to invest in SKAT, which is what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is asking about. And then I would like to sign off on the fact that the SF also accepts its responsibility. There were three tax ministers in the previous government and it is a joint task to try to solve some of these problems. However, we must find a source of funding that is more sustainable than a soft drinks tax which will lead to cross-border trade and job losses in Denmark. At least the government can't help that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150756	The fact that the tax freeze has to be maintained is actually a very important thing now I have to find a word that is not a gang word • strange construction, because that tax freeze is no longer worth anything, and it also means that we do not have any dynamic opportunities at all to change the financing of our society. Because according to the government there is nothing that can be set up so we have no chance of finding new revenue by then perhaps being able to put it down in other areas. That's what makes it so inflexible. That is not just what we are saying; it is what all the economic experts in this country are saying. But leave it alone. The Minister for Taxation keeps saying that more money is being provided in this area, but that is not true. You dig a hole of 10 m, and then you pour some soil down there again, so it gets filled up a tiny bit. Isn't it right now I have to repeat Rune Lund's question that, despite the extra funds that have been provided, there will be less money for SKAT in a few years, in 2019 than there would otherwise have been?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150903	That is absolutely right, but it reflects a decision taken under the previous government, and the SF supported the previous government last time I checked it. That was when an administrative multi-year agreement was drawn up, which ran from 2014 to 2017, and that framework reflects the administrative agreement that was part of a financial law negotiation or something else. And the parties that sat in government at that time must, of course, stand up for that, that is to say, those who supported the government and supported the financial law in question. So when that is the case, it is an expression of the fact that no political decision has been taken on what to do. I do not think that it will be a realistic framework when you look at the challenges facing the tax administration. But that doesn't change the fact that we have to find the money, and I don't think we should find the money by raising the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150944	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524150949	The debate here is, of course, a very good opportunity to discuss these rather serious matters. The central objective of tax is what the tax gap is, i.e. how much comes into the Community's coffers, compared to how much should come in. There we can see that we are now over what is actually the objective, and there are a number of problem areas in the SKAT. The Minister himself now says that it is relevant to look at whether there is a need for increased resources for various sub-areas and that it is actually the Minister's expectation that the framework that has been put forward for the years to come will change. That is how I heard the last statement from the Minister here. However, if so much can be said now, can we be told whether there will be an increase in the SKAT framework with the forthcoming Finance Act? Will it be the government's initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151049	I mean, the government hasn't taken a position on a future financial law at all, so I can't say anything about that. But I can say that the purpose of this circle of understanding about SKAT is not that there should be peace of mind, but that there are a number of parties that recognise that they have a responsibility for the problems that are in the tax administration and for the clean-up task that I have as tax minister. I recognise that there is a need to invest, and the government wants to discuss with the circle of parties how we do so, and also to find funding for the various things. That is, for example, the case. the same group that is behind this agreement on a legal certainty package II that we have concluded and that it has been said that we would like to add some more money to the area of the Tax Appeals Board. That is what is needed, but we also recognise that we need to find them in the context of the Finance Act. It's not that kind of teasing thing. It is sometimes in politics, but it is some parties which, in my view, take these problems deeply, deeply seriously and are also willing to take responsibility. So we will have that discussion, and I would like to give an undertaking on that. But I cannot say anything about it at this stage, and I cannot say anything about the Finance Act at all. It's too soon. I don't think the Minister of Finance could if he was standing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151157	In some cases, we have discussed this question of personnel in various consultations and in public discussions, that we see a number of problem areas where we think we can see the need to increase the workforce. This has happened in some areas, but something remains to be done. And in order for this to be recorded in the Chamber, I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that he has heard and understood that there is an offer from us to add votes to an increased appropriation. It can be about the VAT area, it can be about tax havens, about social dumping or about other problems raised in the debate. And there is thus implicit in the fact that the government assumes responsibility for any problems that may arise if it does not make use of that offer. I just want the Minister to confirm that we are aware of this, and hence also that there is support, if that is what the government is playing out with when the budget bill comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151255	Mr. Jesper Petersen said many times, and I listen to what the tax rapporteurs say, whether they are in the circle of understanding or not. So I can acknowledge that I have heard. However, it is a little premature to start this discussion in connection with this motion for a resolution. However, I also hope that Mr. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democratic Party agree with the government that it is not the soda-water tax or increased taxes that are intended to finance the investments needed in the tax system of the future. It must be given priority as a number of other core welfare tasks in the context of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151335	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151338	I am actually hearing it as if, across all parties in the Folketing, we have a joint mission to address the problems we see in the SKAT. I have seen the Minister say that many times, and we have heard the Socialists last say that they are actually very willing to back up. SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative have tabled this motion for a resolution because we want to be able to rely on the plan laid down for SKAT, that is, the foundation of our welfare system, this dynamo that we see SKAT as. There is a lack of trust in SKAT right now, and we really think in many ways that is unfounded, because SKAT is doing quite well. But there are some flaws and shortcomings. As with all turnarounds, when you are going into a company, I personally need those who are at the head of that turnaround not to concentrate on the fact that there is a vote of expectation, that there is a common position that now we must be understanding what is happening. No, we have a huge problem in the SKAT, a huge problem, and there we will be urging that we simply tackle the root of the problem. And then when we say that we want x number of years' work in and that we want to stop the savings, it's because we think it's fundamental. It could be that we changed our mind if we heard the tax minister say: I trust that there are now enough funds to get SKAT on course. But I just never heard the tax minister say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151454	Thank you for the question. I think that would also be unwise of me to say, but I have to relate to it makes all the parties in the Danish Parliament that you have to find out what is needed, what is needed. Is it crew, is it changed legislation, is it more resources, is it moving tasks elsewhere, is it privatising some tasks? There are many different options. It's not at all because I want to go into that room, but I'm just saying that I think it's a little narrow only to look at that it's about removing a framefall and hiring x number of employees. That, of course, simplifies the political debate. Now it is not at all because I find that Mr. René Gade does so, but such an argument simplifies the political debate. The reason for the problems in the SKAT is not only that there has been efficiency and savings in the SKAT. It is also about a number of other things that have gone wrong. Therefore, I want to discuss with the parties that are in this circle of understanding about theskat out of the crisis, how to get that task done. I would also, of course, like to speak with the entire Parliamentary Committee on Taxation and the parties outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151601	I will come back to my question, which I came in with a little late: is it the tax minister's view that right now there is a plan to get SKAT back on track, as we call it. I do not mean a detailed plan. What I am thinking when I see a vision is that you believe in the vision, that there is what needs to be identified. Right now I find that we are making well-intentioned patch solutions because it is difficult to find out what the overall problem is. But what we're going to do here is get the problem identified. After all, we think we have identified a very, very large part of the problem, namely that there is a lack of resources and trust. We hear it from those who are critics of the way it has been worked on so far, and from accountants, that there is a lack of confidence in employees. They need confidence, and that is why we need to go a different way than to remove the funds. So is it the tax minister's opinion that right now we have the plan ready? Otherwise, I think we should assess again whether it could not well be employees who were just needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151656	I want to say that the Treasury Minister is so myself has a plan; the Treasury has a plan; and the SKAT has a plan. But these are some problems that have accumulated over a number of years, and some of them are not easy solutions. There just isn't. You know, take something like a new property assessment system. And if there were any easy solutions, I think the previous government or the previous government would have resorted to them. So we have to acknowledge that this is also fairly complex. At any rate, I recognise that this is not just about resources, but also about the fact that we have a complicated tax system. It's about raising the level of competence of the employees. It's about having the right IT systems. So it is not just resources and framework that are the recipe for solving SKAT's problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151743	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Taxation and move on to the first rapporteur. It's sir. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524151809	Social democracy works according to the principle in the field of taxation that citizens and businesses have to pay the taxes they have to pay, no more and no less. As an ordinary citizen or law-abiding company, you should be able to count on the fact that when you pay your own taxes, SKAT makes sure that the neighbour or competing company does too, even if they try to avoid it. Along with the experience that the public sector provides goods for the tax dollars in the form of high-quality welfare, this leads to a high tax morality and less tax fraud. But if you lose that faith, experience that SKAT doesn't work, and that scammers can succeed in cheating, or that some are systematically riding freewheels, both the tax morality takes a dive, and our trust in each other and our community suffers a crack. In this way, a well-functioning tax administration that enjoys the trust of the people is ultimately a prerequisite for a well-functioning society. Unfortunately, for a long period of time SKAT has mostly taken headlines for serious problems with failed IT systems, potential VAT fraud, much has already been uncovered, but there may be even more, bogus with dividend tax, a flawed and suspended property assessment system. To look at it a little more fundamentally, the VK government in the 00s bears a huge responsibility for the massive problems we are facing now. In the Foghairs, SKAT came under a kind of ideologically conditional undermining attack. Treasure holes were breathing holes that Fogh let the Danes and his ministers understand. The VK government and the Danish People's Party carried out a large-scale reform of the tax collection, since drastic scaling down of the SKAT crew, something justified, but today it is clear to everyone that it has been cut too deeply and too quickly, and that focus on equation, control and lifting its real authority task was set aside far too unilaterally in the new so-called action strategy. One of the major culprits is the extremely ambitious idea of a comprehensive recovery system, which should be able to deal automatically with hundreds of types of claims. As you know, this was not possible despite ten years of work in developing the system and constant promises that it was just around the corner, and despite the fact that that system never really came, the savings were much taken back anyway. We know the result today. The remaining employees are fighting everything they can, but there are major problems in a large number of areas in the SKAT, and now you can't keep to the financial-law target for the tax gap either. Just in this parliamentary term, the government has unfortunately also chosen to weaken the fight against social dumping, one thing we have criticised strongly, and then the whole strip of problems has been uncovered in relation to the tax on dividends, VAT fraud and so on. During our reign we tried to correct various of the problems we had inherited and which we had largely criticised when they were created, and more resources were added in various areas such as social dumping, action against tax havens, and the first year of the S-R-SF government's time, the reduction in the SKAT framework was completely suspended, but we were not able to solve all the problems and, of course, we also have to take some of the responsibility upon us. Therefore, we continue to work in depth with SKAT's problem areas and try to reach agreements with the government and other parties on concrete progress in SKAT. We have a huge challenge in bringing confidence back to our tax system and bringing our tax authorities into gear, everything else is unfair to citizens and deeply damaging to a tax-financed welfare society like the Danish one. We have proposed that SKAT should already have sufficient resources this year so that the investigation of the new information on speculation in tax havens does not affect the other activities of SKAT. We have taken co-responsibility in the understanding of the SKAT out of the crisis, in the police settlement, and in the agreement on legal certainty package II, all three places where more staff are allocated to SKAT, in parentheses none of the parties to the agreements in question are included in the agreements in question. The best area to tackle is the whole VAT control, including the reimbursement of negative VAT. The National Audit Office will make us more aware of this, just as we must understand that the Ministry of Taxation itself has launched an internal analysis of the area. My expectation is that extra power will also prove necessary here. Sometimes it is legislation that has to be changed. Workflows must be the right ones, there must be management follow-up and supervision, the right competences must be present, all this is part of the response to the massive challenges we are witnessing. Specifically, on the proposal, it is therefore proposed that the planned framework be completely cancelled and, as my speech has shown, we share the concerns of the proposers and the problematization of the many challenges of SKAT, but the proposal is not fully funded and the partial funding is not sufficient and the social democracy cannot support it. At present, as an opposition party, we are not in a position to say objectively how many additional employees are needed in different areas of SKAT. I wish there was still a Social Democrat at the end of the Treasury to make that assessment. There just isn't. So we will continue and continue to focus on the problem areas that we believe there are and to keep the government up to its responsibilities and to try to reach agreements that make concrete progress and strengthen the SKAT. So we want to work with the proposers on the common goal and create an effective, well-functioning and fair tax system, both while our parties are in opposition and hopefully as part of the same majority after the next elections. However, we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution here, and I shall tell you from the Radical Left's tax rapporteur, who could not be here for the debate because of other obligations, that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152342	Sir. Rune Lund has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152345	I would like to start by saying that this proposal is overfunded, because if you abolish the soda-ash tax, you will get 600 million at 2014 prices. kr. extra a year. This is equivalent to more than the savings that SKAT would have to make in 2019 if plans continue as they are now. In addition, there is the fact that hiring more employees in SKAT in a large number of areas with which SKAT works is an outright profit business. It would even be a very, very large profit business if, for example, we were to have a very large profit business. the trade union organizations in the field. But this proposal is a start, you could call it, because it's about putting a plug in. It's about stopping the bleeding. It is about stopping the already planned savings for SKAT in the years ahead. From Enhedslisten's side, our position is that once they have been stopped, we should look at how we can then add more resources. But this proposal is all about stopping the bleeding, and I simply cannot understand it when the Socialists say that more resources are needed, that they cannot, at least, go in to plug in and stop the bleeding in the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152458	I think it is wrong that there is funding for the proposal. If you read what is referred to, it is only an income of 460 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It will therefore not be a full financing of the proposal made at all if we are to maintain the expenditure which, as a result of the documents voted through in the Committee on Finance, is to be added to the framework set out in the proposal. So I do not think that is correct. Well, then, sir. Rune Lund knows that if you really have to change these things, it's not a matter of assessing what individual employees are worth. It is our total tax gap that must be reduced. That is what can actually constitute financing: that there is something more to do with because the SKAT works better. I think there is a risk that the government will have to increase what the tax gap is, that it is simply not serious to have the objective that is now being achieved, because there are so many problems there. But the thing about saying that an employee is worth so much, which is why we can hire so many people, is not a logic that fits in with the way we make finance laws. It's sir. Rune Lund knows about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152611	We're actually wearing a belt and harnessing this proposal, because we're saying that employees can earn their own pay. This shows calculations, such as the Danish Customs & Tax Union. has provided, and this shows the calculations submitted by FTF. So only hiring employees will bring a financial gain. We have also been able to see how it has cost the box that SKAT has been saved in pieces over the last 10 years. So that part of the proposal here actually means that it is financed. Then we'll talk next door about the soda tax, but it's kind of just to say there's money for this for a start, if that's what you want. But the proposal is clearly funded. I have to repeat my question: if it is the case that the Socialists believe that more resources should be allocated, why can we not vote in favour of at least no further savings being made in SKAT? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152706	Firstly, it is not true that it is financed according to the way in which we work with a Finance Act in Denmark, and that is Mr. Rune Lund familiar with? He is presenting it in a different way here, but it is simply not correct. Secondly, I would like to say that, in fact, through the political pressure we are exerting and through the fact that we are going in and making agreements with the government, in various areas we are adding more funds. It's just not agreements that Enhedslisten is part of. You have chosen the times when it has been possible to do so to stand outside. It is in the police settlement, in the legal certainty agreement and in the understanding of the SKAT out of the crisis that came on top of the profit scandal and collapsed by EFI. In all these places, more funds are being provided. That is how we will continue to go in the places where we can see that there are problems. That is, for example, the case. In the area of VAT, there are problems with tax havens and social dumping. Here we would say that there is a need. However, we cannot objectively sit as an opposition party and identify how many are needed in different areas and at the same time exempt all those areas of the SKAT where there may be an opportunity to continue to be more efficient. If you can make new IT systems or IT systems become cheaper, is that a problem? It's not. Of course, you also need to spend the money wisely. Therefore, the way in which the proposal is made, as the proposers do here, is simply too narrow-minded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152814	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524152818	I must admit that I really think it sounds as if the Socialist rapporteur is just looking for excuses not to support this proposal, because if you disagreed with the funding proposal, you could suggest something else. I cannot understand why the DF and the Socialists are thundering that more funds should now be allocated to SKAT, but when we come up with a resolution on it, we will not vote in favour while trying to find different ways of arguing for it. An amendment could, of course, be tabled instead. The money has to come from somewhere, so it could be that the Socialists had an idea for it. I cannot even get mad at the tax minister for not doing anything about this problem, because the tax ministers have no power in this country to define where there is to be a massive saving in the tax area or where extra money is to be heavily added. The Minister of Finance has. This has been the case for at least 20 years. But I can be really indignant that the Socialists will not be helping to rectify this, because this is something that has happened over several periods of government. When we sat in government together, the savings of the previous bourgeois government were made, but it was probably a mistake. That is also what we are saying, namely that we have a shared responsibility. When we were not part of the so-called 'Borg Peace Agreement', it was because we said that we simply cannot muzzle ourselves when we can see that it is peanuts that are being added here. If the Social Democrats and the DF, together with those of us who are outside, had pressed so that we could really get some funding that would baptize, it would have been much better to push the government into really finding some money. This is going to be really, really expensive for all of us, and I cannot understand why a soda-water tax should be the most important thing in the world when it is actually the whole funding of our welfare societies that is at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153011	It is my very clear assessment that the government will be forced to allocate more resources to different problem areas in the SKAT. You can almost hear the tax minister say that in the debate now. We will continue to identify those places and strike where we can see that there are problems and work to ensure that in those areas we succeed in strengthening the efforts of the SKAT. I think that is the serious and objective way of doing this, and that is also the way to take responsibility. Well, we're actually gonna do it. Just in the last year we have succeeded on the points I mentioned to Mr. Rune Lund a moment ago, and in the case of the SF too, it is true that we are not contributing to the agreements where we are actually able to get through with more resources being allocated to SKAT. I think that is better for our tax administration than parade proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber. I never called it a Borg Peace Agreement. I believe that those who stand outside and want to maintain not to take co-responsibility have an interest in calling it peace of mind, but I do not think that the discussion in the field of taxation shows that it is a question of peace of mind. I guess we're also pretty hard on the tax minister sometimes and for good reason, but I wouldn't call it Borgfred. SF says here that they could not go along with it and take responsibility for the time they were sitting in government because there was not enough money. What the SF has proposed in the draft budget, which was presented last autumn, was that 300 million should be allocated. kr. More. What the SF said was needed was 300 million. kr. More. That is what was missing, that is what was proposed. Yes, it was, and that's what you can do. In fact, 267 million have been set aside. kr. more than then, so we're almost there, but SF just wouldn't take co-responsibility, and I think that's a shame, because that should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153147	No, 300 million. kr. is not enough. But sometimes we also have to look at what is politically possible. I think that when we are actually a large number of parties, a majority in the Folketing, who say that we need to really invest in this area, then it is we who should work together. And when the rapporteur says that there was no peace of mind, I would say that it was the whole rhetoric that the package was surrounded by the fact that now one had to get together and then settle with the money put on the table. At that time, on behalf of the SF, I told the tax minister that it wasn't to hit him on top of his head. This is not his responsibility, it is something that has happened over many, many years, and we must all take responsibility for that. I just could not say that the money that had been dropped was in any way sufficient, and so I would like to help the Minister to get more money for his ministry, because I think he knows as a minister that they really need it. Once again, I have to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur: when we have a majority and that peace of mind, or whatever it was, apparently not really apply anyway, why not pool the votes behind it to eliminate the savings that were made? Because whatever is coming now and in the coming years, Mr. Jesper Petersen then guarantee me that in 2019 the savings set aside are all gone?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153320	I can't do that because we're not in government. So I can't do that. But Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is in the same consultation and gets the same committee questions as all of us who are members of the Committee on Taxation, and if she wants to describe the discussion about the conditions in the SKAT as a peace of mind, I do not know what you are doing all those many days when we sit in long consultation and keep the government up to ensure that SKAT works better. Then I just have to maintain that the SF chose not to take co-responsibility on top of the problems that were. I was very surprised because the SF was in government and helped to continue the framework plan that was for SKAT and to implement the same efficiency improvements. You were involved in making a series of finance laws since when you didn't change it. Then I thought, when the EFI system collapsed, that it would probably help to lift responsibility. It wasn't because of the lack of money. What is then proposed in the budget negotiations is 300 million. kr. More. It was 300 million. kr. I think it was a fig leaf in relation to not taking co-responsibility. And now we have put forward a proposal which we know is a parade proposal and which is not going to be an objective way of resolving it, and so we cannot finance it in the way that we know we have to finance it in the agreements that have to be made in a financial law context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153438	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153444	I would like to start by acknowledging that the Socialists are helping to take responsibility in the broad sense that we have in order to get the SKAT right. After all, I believe that all parties have a responsibility for the situation in which the SKAT is in, because we have had changing governments and changing majority voting in favour of the various agreements. And that is why I also have to go to the rapporteur a little bit, because the rapporteur says that it was Mr. Kristian Jensen, who made the EFI and that the Social Democrats, when they were in government, had to rectify all the things that had gone wrong over the ages. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur: who put the EFI into operation? Who had the power of government when the EFI was put into operation? And if the Social Democrats felt that the EFI did not work well enough, why did not the Social Democrats themselves stop the EFI when the Social Democrats were in power? Because it was only when the Left came to power that the EFI was actually stopped and something was actually done about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153543	As Mrs Schack Elholm is aware, the analysis and review of the EFI which provided a basis for stopping EFI was initiated by the tax minister Benny Engelbrecht at the time. And when there had been elections in June and the conclusion of that study was leaked shortly after the election, it became the new tax minister's opportunity and allowed to take power from that system. The message given to our ministers, as I have been told, was that it was just around the corner, that it would work, and therefore substantial funds and also the entire functioning of the SKAT in this area had been invested in the fact that that system would work. And that's why it's not serious just overnight to pull the plug on it. I believe that something should have been done before and that we have not been able to rely on the assurances given that the system was going to work. Nevertheless, the whole idea of it was born under Mr. Kristian Jensen as tax minister. It is he who has got a series of noses for his, I think, mismanagement of the tax area since then they are well deserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153652	After all, I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that one has had a responsibility in relation to the EFI itself. However, it sounds as if there have only been waltzes under the former Left Government, and I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that the number of, let us just take such a thing as reports from the Reichsaudit increased in recent years, including under the Socialist Government, and that therefore the problems have not only been under a Left Government. We all have a responsibility for this. It's not something where you can point the finger at each other, because we all have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153728	Well, I would like to admit that the problems in SKAT have many fathers, and that is one of the reasons why I think it is not responsible or a proper way of acting when SF does not want to take that co-responsibility, for example. in the circle of understanding that is made. However, I would now like to maintain with regard to the issues surrounding EFI, the property assessments and the whole change of philosophy in the SKAT, where focusing on correct equation, proper enforcement of authority and control went all the way to the opposite ditch, we have gone far too far, and these are decisions that have been made under the VK government and that we have had to try to correct in various ways during our reign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153806	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153808	Thank you. Actually, I understand when Mr. Simpson... Jesper Petersen will just indicate that there are actually improvements and additional contributions of funds, and that the Socialists helped to bring them through these agreements and documents, which among other things. has been approved and the history that has been. In the alternative and in the other parties that are involved here, we agree that it is a good thing to go in and take that responsibility. The problem for us in the alternative of going along is simply that we do not feel that it is the right thing to do. We cannot see that by doing so we are creating a solution in the future. But if we forget this briefly, what it is all about here is that we actually have to go in to find something, so that we can find the right solutions for SKAT in the future, in particular with the Socialists. Jesper Petersen says we disagree. It may be that the timing and the way we have formulated it, with the 1,000 years' work, disassemble and make it impossible to say yes to. I can actually understand that, because we really can't know exactly how many it takes. It's something we have to look into, but this is a bid. So can we somehow gather together to push the current government to focus on precisely adding resources? Maybe that's as much as we can get on with here, I think. So in the meantime, while there are negotiations while we are making small improvements, how can we try to focus on the need for more resources? That is not the whole solution, entirely in agreement, but can the rapporteur perhaps come to us a little if we forget a little of the wording of our proposal when there are elements we can share in pushing for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524153938	Absolutely. And I think that is what happens when you follow the work of the Tax Committee. If you follow the way in which we run the tax policy area, you can see that we are continuously addressing the places where there are problems in the SKAT and also going critically to the whole way in which, I think, the weighting has moved too far in relation to on the one hand equation, control, proper enforcement of authority and, on the other hand, the blind belief that service and citizen information can solve it all. There are a number of areas where there has been a need to increase the workforce and where there is certainly a need for more. VAT is one of the most recent examples. We have proposed the same thing to the tax minister about tax havens, social dumping and other measures, and we will continue to do so. And we are pleased that we can agree with the alternative on that. I hope that we will also be on the day we hope to negotiate a financial law agreement, and that this is something the alternative will give so much weight that some of its political capital and any funds available will actually be used to strengthen it. Then I cannot help noticing that I would like the alternative to take co-responsibility on the occasions when, while we are in opposition, it actually succeeds in getting some things through; it has narrowed it down a bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154054	The last thing that has been said fell straight out, so the rapporteur may repeat that, i.e. on what it has just cut down on. I am listening and I think it sounds interesting that we actually agree on the vast majority. I really see the Social Democrats as some who want to provide funds for the dynamo of the welfare society, as we call it, in other words SKAT in Denmark. We just lack it in the solutions that are being created. It is small steps that the Socialists are helping to take. If, for our part, we are going to agree to go in and take that responsibility and say yes to those steps, then we have to be able to see that there is actually a will and a majority for us to do the right thing, as we think this big investment is. So is it the question whether I can have the last question again, so can I go home and think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154135	It's kind of a repeat of the other one. I can also feel that we see quite the same thing about wanting to have an efficient and fair and well-functioning tax system, and that we see the same thing about there being a number of problem areas in the SKAT as it is now. So in this way, this discussion is a good opportunity to focus on it, including in some of the places where we agree. What I said was that even when we are in opposition, we think we should try to achieve some results. I guess that's what it's really about, that is, that something is actually happening. And for example... When it came to prioritising the Tax Appeals Board and the whole system of complaints and reducing processing times, the alternative dropped out, as well as the police agreement, which strengthens customs efforts, and is not in the circle behind the agreement on a better framework for SKAT, which means that more staff should be allocated to recovery and profit control.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154230	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen for today's work. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154239	As has already been mentioned, this proposal is about the cancellation of the planned efficiency improvements in SKAT for 2017 and onwards, which will then have to be financed through the Finance Act. It has been proposed that it will be financed very specifically by the reintroduction of the soft drinks levy, which will bring about some 600 million. kr. Basically, I can say that I very much agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that it is essential that SKAT has sufficient resources, because this is the whole revenue side we are talking about here or the dynamo of our country, as the rapporteur of the alternative calls it. It is quite obvious that it is of course important that SKAT is well functioning so that we can make sure that the wheels can drive around. This is also important for another reason. If we have a tax system that works and where people are going to pay what they now have to and have been imposed by law, it also does that that tax morality is higher than the opposite. If people can see that we have a tax administration that does not work and that does not catch those who try to defraud, yes, then tax morality falls, and then people may start doing black work or other fraud, and that is quite bad if we have a society with a low tax morality. So it is essential that SKAT is good and well functioning. There have been ongoing improvements in the efficiency of the SKAT, as the motion for a resolution also shows, and it has to be said that some have gone well. There are, among other things: The area of people, which I think most people agree to work very well. It is good and easy for citizens, and people are being made to pay the taxes they have to pay. I think it is fair to say here that it is perhaps fair enough to deal with it with fewer resources. On the other hand, there are other areas where, to put it mildly, things have gone very badly. I am thinking in particular of the area of recovery with the IT system EFI, which has been abandoned. Here you had the unfortunate situation that you chose to make employees more efficient away before you had the IT management that was supposed to replace. We must honestly recognise that this is a scare example from which we must learn: we must of course wait to reap the fruitage of the efficiency improvements until we can really get them. As I said, the proposal envisages that it should be financed through the re-establishment of the soda-ash levy, which we in the Danish People's Party cannot support, since we were really pleased that it was abolished, in that it was abolished, among other things. helps to reduce cross-border trade. However, I would like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution on the fact that they have a funding proposal in this motion for a resolution. However, I would like to say that, although I cannot support it, the motion for a resolution is, as it were, intended to be from 2017. This opens the way for us to actually have time to look at it in the context of the Financial Act of the autumn. I would also like to sign for what I heard the Minister of Taxation say, namely that he really wants and has planned to call the parties behind the understanding of getting SKAT out of the crisis to discuss how to finance it if that is what you are going to achieve. This also means that the government can be encouraged to look at what is really needed in the intervening period. Because I clearly believe that there is a need for increased resources in some areas. However, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, we do not sit as experts here in the Danish Parliament and certainly not in the Committee on Taxation, and we cannot sit and say that this is exactly the department and another department where we need x number of employees. It has to come objectively from SKAT via the Treasury, and then we in the Danish Parliament have to take a position on it. There we also have time now and up to the autumn, where we can get a look at it, and there I look forward to meeting in this circle of understanding to find out how we can get more resources to those areas where we need it. I would also like to say that I think we need to realise that this is not just about resources, because there are clearly some areas in which things can be made smarter by IT support or other methods. But that also depends, of course, on how to actually control. I would actually like to draw a parallel here with the profit tax scandal, where it turned out that nothing was controlled at all. Then you would have had three times as many employees, but then it would have helped nothing, because you didn't check it, and you didn't find out until you got the tip from abroad. At the same time, of course, there must also be good management; there must be clear follow-up; and there must be supervision by the Treasury. It is not to ignore the fact that resources clearly play an important role, but we would also just like to say that there are other parameters that are also involved, so that we have a good and well-functioning tax system. So it is not alone the resources. In conclusion, we are ready to look at it in the context of the Finance Act in order to see whether resources need to be provided, and therefore, as is proposed here, whether the required efficiency should be removed. But it has to come from the Treasury, i.e. what you see of need. That is why I can only say again that we are looking forward to having this debate here in the circle of parties that are helping to bring the SKAT out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154727	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154732	I have noted that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær this weekend, on Sunday, was out to say that one has to admit that it has been overly effective in the SKAT. But I must also say that I do not quite understand, if that is the way the rapporteur feels, why the rapporteur will not be helping to cancel the planned savings that are in the SKAT in the future. When we have seen how devastating it has been to save on SKAT for the last 10 years, why should the devastating savings just continue indefinitely? I simply do not understand that. I think it is very important to say, in relation to the resolution, that it is double-financed, overfunded because employees can earn their own salary. It shows calculations from the professional organizations. In addition, just to add an extra, double funding, a funding has been provided through the soda-ash levy. It is simply that it is economically sensible to hire more people in SKAT; it is economically sensible to cancel the planned savings in SKAT. I simply do not understand why the rapporteur cannot see it or cannot be on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524154844	What I said this weekend was that in some areas the efficiency of some has been made more effective, and that is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech today. A good example is one of these. The recovery area, where you chose to streamline and fire employees before you had an IT support that could replace it. Then it turns out that EFI will be scrapped after you have actually fired employees, and it is obvious and obvious that there has been too much efficiency and it has been done in a completely wrong way. So that is not new, that is, what I said this weekend, compared to what I am saying today. It's kind of the same thing. But it has obviously not been clear enough that the reason why I do not support it is the funding. I'm not saying it's underfunded. I am simply saying that I cannot support the reintroduction of the soda-ash levy, but the disagreement is not so great, because I have seen the same view of what the questioner has and that the Socialists had when they were in the platform: we would very much like to take a look at how we get resources for SKAT. The minister then said that we will be looking at this autumn. But it also has to come in the order that he comes up with an analysis of exactly what is needed, and then we are very happy to take part in the task of finding the money needed to meet that need. And there I really had hoped that Enhedslisten and the other three authors would have been in this circle of understanding, so that we could actively go in and take a share of responsibility, because now it is quite certain that we are sitting in the autumn and making an agreement to add resources to SKAT without the three parties behind this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155005	It's a little funny about that comprehension or the Borg Peace Party, because it's such a half-A4 page with such little text that there has been a negative mention of SKAT in the media, and then you scold the officials, and then you don't talk about political responsibility. That's half a page of money. In addition, there is the proposal called the SKAT out of the crisis, which Enhedslisten supports, and we are also voting in favour of the documents in the Finance Committee. In other words, we support any strengthening of the SKAT, we have always done so. But then I'm gonna ask you about sir. Dennis Flydtkjær will recognize the thinking and thinks it is a sensible way of thinking about how much an employee in SKAT can earn or how many times an employee earns his own salary. For hiring people will thus also be a way of creating funding not only for employees' own salaries, but actually also broader to the welfare fund. Is this a way of thinking which the rapporteur thinks is sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155056	Let me start by correcting. I simply do not share the view that Enhedslisten supports all the measures that increase the resources of SKAT. In other words, the Socialist rapporteur could mention three examples of packages or agreements in which the Enhedslisten is not part of. The last one was, it was 3 weeks ago, legal certainty package II, and it would not be included in Enhedslisten. So where we really are sitting and moving something, Enhedslisten isn't with us, and that's kind of a shame, because I really understand and feel that we in the Danish Parliament would like to lift this area. But it also requires that we be involved in the agreements in which we then have to put some nails in and where there can be positive things, but also negative things, but hopefully for each party several positive things in the balance. That is where the constructive dialogue must be, and I am really only sorry that Enhedslisten is not in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155138	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155144	When this Borg Peace Agreement was made, the understanding was like, that now we have to come together to find some money for SKAT, and that what has happened with SKAT is a responsibility that is widely incumbent on all of us. And then we were out to say that the arrow did not specifically point to the current tax minister. It was not intended not to go along with it, but to say that we have now done so, that is to say to add some extra funds, and that is obviously not enough at all, but then we will not talk about it any more. That was the framework for it, and that is why the SF said that we could not agree to it. Of course we will vote in favour of any proposal to add extra funds to the SKAT. However, when the rapporteur is out in the media saying that SKAT must have added extra funds, I suppose the rapporteur must also have thought about how it should be financed. If the rapporteur does not like our funding proposal, does DF have its own funding proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155251	First of all, I do not share the view of the agreement we have on bringing SKAT out of the crisis, that it is a matter of such a team of foot-and-mouth agreements, where we then do not talk about it anymore. In fact, I also think that the debate that followed in the media and in the Committee on Taxation has shown quite strongly that we are still quite critical, for example. in relation to the profit tax scandal, in which I think I personally am quite critical, even in relation to the current tax minister, although it is not his responsibility, but it is nevertheless his responsibility to explain it. So I don't share the opinion that it's supposed to be such a fucking piece of shit. In relation to the understanding circle in general, the point is that we are constantly trying to see how we can get SKAT out of the crisis and do not think that everything is solved with a piece of A4 paper. That is precisely why the Minister says that he is now opening the door for us to meet again in the autumn and find out how we can raise the SKAT, and also look at resources and when we look at what is really needed of resources, then of course we also look at the financing of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155345	That wasn't an answer. In other words, one thing is that we do not like the form of funding that we are proposing, but another is that I hope the rapporteur agrees that the money should be found somewhere, at least within the framework of understanding that many people are operating with, namely that self-financing is not something that you want to talk about. So there's got to be some other money, because otherwise the math boys over there in the Treasury don't like it. So if it is another funding proposal that needs to be put forward, then I guess DF will have to come up with it as well. I cannot understand why we can say that we need more funds for SKAT, we do not have a proposal ourselves, but we are going to take down your proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155429	I see no general need for me to sit down and make funding proposals for the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative's proposals. I'm just taking it from the factual point of view that the first step must be to find out exactly what is needed by resources in the SKAT to get them on the road, in addition to having to look at how to have good management and how to construct the right things. As soon as we have clarified this in the autumn, the tax minister has said that we will get a picture of the fact that we will come and look at the funding afterwards. So what the SF's rapporteur proposes is that the Danish People's Party should provide funding now, when we find out what is needed in the autumn, is a little illogical, and I really hope that the rapporteur himself will understand this. The only logical and objective thing must be that we first find out what the need is and then when we have it on the table, we will find out how to finance it. And it has already been announced that we will look at this in the autumn when the minister calls this circle of parties that are behind this understanding of the importance of getting the SKAT out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155527	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155533	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is the view of the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party that the plan that lies in terms of how we should get the SKAT out of the crisis and which we are going to proceed with is a plan that the Danish People's Party currently feels is likely and reasonable and that it is one that can be trusted. 'Cause at least I'm missing a lot of time, and it's not the tax minister's fault to see what's the plan. I hear that there is an understanding which agrees that we should look at it, but I suppose it is necessary if we are not to act and act more strongly, that there is in fact a belief among the parties, and not least among the tax minister, that we can resolve this. What I have heard from the Minister of Taxation so far, and also from interviews earlier, is that we simply do not have the means to do what was actually required. It is not necessarily the tax minister's fault, but is it the rapporteur's view that there are the means and that there is the priority to be given to SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155630	It's really hard for me to know because I don't sit with my finger in the mud and know how many employees are needed in each department. But in general terms, I also think it comes to a situation where the Left injects more resources into the SKAT, and there it is, then, just that we have to wait objectively to know exactly how many it is. Compared to how I feel covered in the plan in the autumn, I can't say if I am for good reasons, because I haven't seen it yet. But I would say that in this understanding that we have, I think there is quite a broad consensus that what we have done so far is not necessarily enough, but that it is such an incessant process in which one has to constantly look at whether there are more things we can do to lift the SKAT out of the crisis and how we can constantly raise confidence to SKAT. And I actually think that's one of the good reasons for being in such a circle. One might have hoped that the alternative was included, because they have many sensible views on this, rather than saying no, because there is a piece of A4 paper with something that one disagrees with. This is a process, and it's going to take many years to restore the SKAT. That is why I think it would be a good thing if we were to be able to influence this debate as widely as possible and not just say 'no' from day one as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155731	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155734	Now legal certainty package II was mentioned before, and there we were, as far as we could at all, and we would have liked to have gone all the way. But the problem there, and as it is with many of the other things we are discussing right now about SKAT, is that we think we need to show the confidence that needs to be given. We simply cannot understand that there is such a big problem in the SKAT, and then you will not say once and for all to the employees who work there: yes, you are under pressure, yes, we have cut down, yes, there is a shortage of employees. Instead, they tell us that it is not safe to have to come more. Well, that's what we actually think is to tell you that it's the employees who do it badly. Can the rapporteur follow me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155812	Well, I would like to say that I also think that there are a lot of employees in SKAT who are doing very well, and that is what the vast majority of them are doing. There have also been unfortunate examples, and I think that is something that has been recognised in the SKAT itself. There are, for example: also some who have been sent home, running over the last few years. But that doesn't change the fact that it would also be unspeakable if I stood and said whether it should be an extra 1,000, or an extra 2 000, or 5 000 additional employees. After all, we have no basis for saying that from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Therefore, we need to get an analysis from SKAT from the Treasury via the Ministry of Taxation of what exactly is needed. Indeed, I share the ambition that we need to strengthen the area so that the pressured tax workers can also see that there are perhaps now some colleagues who will be able to do their job better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155849	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524155857	The alternative, Enhedslisten and SF suggest that the planned savings in SKAT from 2017 onwards be cancelled. Unfortunately, we all know that there are problems in the SKAT, and that is not good enough. Therefore, in September, the Minister of Taxation presented a plan to get SKAT out of the crisis, and among many parties in the Danish Parliament there is fortunately broad support to take responsibility for trying to lift the SKAT out of the crisis. I welcome that. It is not yet clear what will happen in the SKAT after 2016. In the Finance Act for this year, SKAT's budget for the first time in a long time has not been cut, yes, in 2015 and 2016, SKAT has actually received more money. And even the parties who tabled this motion for a resolution have helped to vote in favour of financial legislation where SKAT has been spared. Some members of the parties have even sat on the ministerial chair and saved on the SKAT. We all have a shared responsibility for the problems in the SKAT. In other words, no savings have been decided after 2017. It therefore seems a little absurd to deal with a motion for a resolution on something that has not been decided. The proposers will finance the cancellation of savings by reintroducing the soda-ash levy, which was abolished in the context of the "Growth Plan." The agreement was concluded between the then government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. It's a bad idea to reinstate the soda tax. Too high taxes damage Danish business and increase cross-border trade, and that is not the way forward. It might be added that the Enhedslisten has already spent this money, because in the course of the question debate last week it emerged that the Enhedslisten would finance higher penalties by reintroducing the soda-ash levy. So some of the money has already been spent. In other words, it does not add up. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that we cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that, unfortunately, they did not have the opportunity to be here, but that they also reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160110	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160114	This resolution is about stopping the bleeding in the SKAT. And if you look at the 2016 Finance Act, you can look at the projections, how the SKAT budget will look over the years. There is a table, and it can be seen that when the Finance Act was signed, SKAT's budget for 2016 would be 4.9 billion. kr., and that budget will be about a little over 500 million. kr. lower in 2019 if nothing happens. After all, it is planned savings which continue to be run down over the SKAT forever and ever. This resolution is then intended to say that it must be stopped. The point is, of course, that once we have stopped the savings, that is to say have stopped the accident and stopped the bleeding, we also need to see how more resources can be added to strengthen the SKAT. Because the savings have cost the box for the last 10 years, among other things. because of the structural reform led by the Left, which has destroyed SKAT and cost the Danes billions of kroner. And when it comes to hiring more people in SKAT, it makes great sense because the extra employees in SKAT earn their own salary several times. Is this not a premise that the rapporteur would at least acknowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160233	There were many things to do. But let me start by saying that we have not, after all, passed any laws that say what is going to happen after 2016. And the figures referred to by the rapporteur are, of course, economic calculations of what will happen if we do not take a political position on this. However, we have not taken a political position and we are following the matter closely and looking at what is needed. So we have not taken a political position on what will happen after 2016. But in 2015 and 2016 we have actually added SKAT money. Then there is the discussion about whether employees in the SKAT earn themselves home. I don't know any calculations on the part of the Ministry and I don't know if you can make it up in such a way. At first sight, there is not always a connection between how well the SKAT works and how many employees there are. In other words, when payments were made in connection with the dividend tax, which is not the prettiest example, yet there was an increase in the payouts. This was thought to be right, and then more employees began to be employed to deal with what was actually a fraud, which was not known so that more money could be paid out in SKAT. So it does not mean a good control that more staff are recruited. You shouldn't just headlessly hire more employees. It must also be ensured that it works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160346	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160349	What you hear, if you listen to the employees in SKAT, is that for years they have spoken for deaf ears when they have said: do not keep cutting down and firing thousands of employees. You will have to hire more people and secure them, and it is the majority of the parliament that they are trying to speak to that there is enough money and resources for SKAT to carry out its task. Unfortunately, a political majority in this Parliament, headed by the Left, has done exactly the opposite. And today we see the result: SKAT has been destroyed. That is why I think it is incredible that the rapporteur from the Left will not agree with the idea that it is now time to hire more people and stop the savings in the SKAT, which this motion for a resolution, which has even been financed, is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160435	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160436	Let me first point out that the Left has not been in power for all this time. It is not only the Left that is in charge. We also have a share of responsibility, but everyone has a share of responsibility here. Even Enhedslisten has voted in favour of finance laws, where the number of employees in SKAT has actually been reduced. The Enhedslisten has done so, for it has happened under the previous government. There was not one year during which more employees were added to SKAT under the previous government. That is why Enhedslisten has helped to vote in favour of it too. That's why everyone's responsible for this case. We are happy to accept part of the responsibility and to rectify this matter, but it is not just a matter of headless hiring. You have to be sure that the people you hire can be used in a sensible and effective way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160536	SKAT has big and deep problems. These problems directly affect citizens in the form of higher tax burdens and uncertainty about tax payments. Both are stifling for people's motivation to take initiative and create value. Therefore, it is a bottom-up task for the government to correct the problems of the SKAT. One of the problems for the SKAT has been that there has been a large flow of ministers. The tax office has been used to catapult political careers, and one of the parties among the proposers, namely SF, has participated in this chair dance, where many different people have been in the post for a short time, after which they have been able to collect ministerial pensions. It is clear that when we treat the tax minister's office with such laxity from a political point of view, it will also have a negative effect on the way in which it operates. Another important parameter has been that SKAT has been used for all possible and impossible agendas that have nothing to do with effective tax collection. Here the three proposing parties do not hold back. SKAT must be used to beat down on those who are doing well. SKAT must solve the climate crisis, get citizens to eat healthy, and SKAT must ensure that citizens repair their houses in the right way. All of this politicisation leads to hugging in the field of taxation, complicates legislation and thereby also increases the risk of errors and, of course, a greater use of resources. Thirdly, and I have not heard the authors of the motion for a resolution interested in this at all, a proper tax administration is made difficult by the fact that a considerable proportion of the employees in the SKAT have a so-called civil servants' agreement. Such an agreement makes it virtually impossible for SKAT to dismiss a person who does not possess the right qualifications. be related to purchasing and projecting IT systems in order to hire someone who can. In other words, it is a huge problem that you have to keep employees while there are quite others you need to be able to do the job. Well, all these matters are supposedly a little of a concern for the three authors of the motion. They want to solve the problems in SKAT by allowing the Danes to pay more tax. After all, it is not an unknown phenomenon that the left wing, and here I am counting on the alternative, will pay the citizens for the errors of the state. However, we fundamentally disagree with the Liberal Alliance. The state has to clean up after the state's mistakes. It is the state that must serve the citizens, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160833	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524160842	Thank you for the debate so far. It has been exciting, and I think, as always, when we have these motions for resolutions, that there really are many common positions, and again we all want to help get the SKAT back on track. In terms of how we get the SKAT back on track and whether we feel we've got the SKAT out of the crisis, it sounds like we disagree. Several parties have made statements in relation to the analysis that hopefully comes soon from the Treasury, about what it is that is going to be if it is not these 1,000 years' work, in other words on just these figures, that gets SKAT out of the crisis, what is it that needs to be done? There we would like to stretch out a hand from the alternative. I do not really know if it is 600, if it is 1,000, if it is 1 600 years' work that is needed, but the important thing for us is to get the stick out and make it quite clear that the fundamental problem in the SKAT right now is simply that there are so many gaps that one cannot innovate or digitise oneself out of it. We are great advocates of digitisation, we are great advocates of efficiency and debureaucratisation in the Alternative, but it is essential when we talk about digitisation that it should not just be more effective. For the essence of digitisation is that it has to be better, and so there are elements in the SKAT that we have seen lie and hide because there are simply some who do not take responsibility for it. Why is it that you do not take responsibility if we now claim that it is actually some skilled employees we have in the SKAT? Well, that is if there is going to be a culture where it is so impossible to make sense in one's everyday life, where one has to turn a blind eye too many times and then say: if I am going to go into that, it takes too much of me, I simply cannot accept that solution. We know it from the meeting rooms where they say, "Who wants to run with this ball?" That's a good idea, but who's taking the responsibility? We are experiencing this right now, compared to the fact that the SKAT has been cut so massively that very few people dare to stand up and say: I am running with this ball. Because if you run with that ball, you have to go to another KPI, something you're being measured on, accept that you're being weakened, accept that there are some of those who are looking at you, your leader in the SKAT, who says: Hey, you're not meeting the target as you should. And then the employee can say: Well, that's because we have a big problem over here, which is just lying. But what are your focus areas? What's your KPI? What is it you're being measured on? Oh, yeah, that's it over here. And then you don't look at what may be the crux of the matter and the root of the evil, because it's not your responsibility. For a time, we just have to accept that in SKAT there is a massive need for more resources in the form of brains and hearts and hands. There will have to be someone looking at the problems that we have identified, we can clarify them by the Treasury later this year, but we already know that there is a need for more brains. And there I think it is scandalous that we should go in and say that this proposal is not well funded enough, that we cannot say yes to thousands of years' work. But that's not what this is about. Our proposal is that once and for all we make clear to SKAT and SKAT employees that it is not their fault. There has been poor management, there have been politically bad decisions across colors, and if we had been in the alternative, we would have had shares in it as well. We are not saying that we are standing with pure hands and therefore just have to point to all the others; we are just saying that when you have to get in and get SKAT straight, it is no good that there is a peace of the castle, it is no good that there are some parties that have decided that we understand that things are as they are, and now we take them quietly. We need a turnaround. And at a turnaround someone comes in who isn't afraid to tear everything up with a mess, and looks at what it takes. I hear the accountants say that there is a need for trust. And that's why we don't go along with the patch solutions we call it, among other things. legal certainty package II, where behavioural regulations are to be introduced, a code of conduct for employees. It is already there, but it specifies that a code of conduct is necessary so that they work professionally. That's not what motivates me as an employee, that's not what makes me go the extra mile. So what we need to use this motion for a resolution for the future is once and for all to say: yes, more resources are needed, and we dare say that on the part of the Danish Parliament, and then it may well be that thousands of years of work are not needed. Then it may well be that something else needs to be in play at the same time, we fully agree with that, but we cannot say that precisely right now. However, we lack clear support that employees matter and that employees can earn themselves back home. We lack that when you walk like this and dance a little about the hot porridge, compared to what may be wrong and why things go wrong. Well, that's enough because no one takes responsibility, no one has any profit to take it. Therefore, if this resolution is not adopted, we would very much like it to be said at least that people, hands, hearts and brains are missing in the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161359	Thank you. After all, the alternative rapporteur keeps saying that there is a massive need for resources. This is among other things. in order to create confidence in the employees of the SKAT, that one is not in the various agreements that have been that actually provide resources to the SKAT because it was too little. Well, I guess I'm just gonna ask sir. René Gade: How many resources do you have to add? Is it 1,000, is it 2,000? How many people do we have to get up to before you feel you have confidence in the employees of the SKAT? So I would also like to ask: how does the rapporteur know what the number should be? Is it a matter of fact that you are standing from the parliamentary platform and saying that it should be 1,000 or 1,200 or 1,150, or what should the number be? After all, it will be an empty debate if we are all just going to outbid each other in how much resources it takes and that the only prerequisite for trusting employees is for there to be more x number of employees. How many employees do the Alternative think it takes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161453	It should not be a secret that when we drew up the motion for a resolution, we were thinking: 'Well, does it make sense to say that it takes a thousand?' Do we have to add exactly 1,000? Shall we say 1,000 employees, 1,000 years' work, is it part-time, is it full-time? So the rapporteur is quite right that it makes no sense to be completely firm that it should be 1.000. None of us can say that. What is our argument is that more needs to be added, and I simply cannot get that acceptance from a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly. I cannot accept the fact that we already know that. I hear the Socialists say that they are actually willing to say yes in many areas and cast some bullets to the government, but I do not hear the government say yes, there is a lack of more resources. And that's what we're after. I would like to say that here. More resources are lacking than in the form of people in the SKAT. It can't do it all at all. In the long term, computers will do so much more effectively than we can as human beings, but right now we need to clean up, and some people need to do so with some experience and some opportunities to see things through in a way that we cannot digitise ourselves out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161550	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161553	So there is something wonderfully contradictory in what the alternative comes with today. It is only now on my question that it is admitted that it makes no sense to give a figure or to say how many employees it takes. It has now been said throughout the debate that there is a massive increase in staff, but how many it is does not make sense to say anything about it. I would like to give the assurance that if you come from the Treasury with an analysis that says that there is a need for more staff and I think there is, but it has to come objectively and that way from there we will also be happy to take part in it. But the unspeakable comes from the fact that you constantly stand and say that there is a need for much more employees, but then you agree with yourself that it makes no sense to come with one or another number. There are two chairs, but you cannot sit in between, as the alternative does right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161632	I am sitting there quite well, and I am sitting right in the middle instead of saying that one or the other is right. We also have it in the foreign debate, where we are constantly called upon to say how many there is room for. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is not possible to say how many are available. It is all sorts of factors that do say one number or the other, and I have actually tried to say throughout the debate that it is not crucial for us whether it is 1,000. The interesting thing for us is whether we actually accept that more people are needed to rectify this. They have cut it massively, they have called it an efficiency and getting SKAT out of the crisis, but that is not what we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161706	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161713	Sir. In his speech René Gade has said that a peace of mind has been achieved and says that it means, like, that the whole thing is forgotten and that there is no need for any more. I'm just gonna have to ask sir. René Gade, if he has not discovered that since then there have been personnel assigned to the area of recovery, to the area of profits, to the tax administration, to the area of complaint, to the customs service via the police conciliation, all of which are agreements in which the Social Democrats are involved, but which are not included in the alternative, and whether he has not discovered that the Social Democrats have been involved in the understanding that there are problems in SKAT in connection with a whole series of consultations, questions, etc. The Commission has continued to press for the strengthening of the problem areas in terms of personnel as well. Is that something, sir? René Gade has been included in the last 9-10 months?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161810	That is so, and I have also tried to recognise, among other things. The Socialists for going in and taking these small steps that are bigger than not taking anyone. Right now, the alternative is not taking anyone in this direction, because we are not saying yes when there is a small step towards more resources being added. We have done so in a few areas, among others. in relation to additional resources from the Ombudsman and in the area of taxation, but otherwise we do not see that in the actions, the small steps, such as: The Socialists are helping to deliver in the direction of something better, is the fundamental understanding that one simply has to say that yes, there is a massive lack of the employees I was asked about before, and I would like to say that there are many missing. We say 1,000, and then it may be only 500, but it is really many years' work in my eyes. So that is the debate I would like to have in front of me and the one where I lack a clear indication that yes, something is missing at present. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of giving something to which there is no acceptance by the government, that is to say it is simply a question of people being lacking. We want SKAT and the people who are there and in the state to be referred to as something good. We want smaller states and more communities, but the state is still not out of evil, and that is what it often sounds like when you talk about tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161918	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524161921	I have a little understood that the alternative looked up something that might have been a new political culture, but of course also to be objective and to go to things without ideological dogma. Then I have to say that I think it seems to me completely unqualified and unspeakable that one should stand up and say that it is exactly 1,000 employees that are needed, but of course without being able to say what they are going to do in some areas. And why stop there? Well, if it's such a good business, why shouldn't it be 2,000? And when you say in your speech that nothing more has happened in the SKAT because of this common understanding, and then you have to stand up and say: yes, a whole lot has actually happened, you have to sort out what you really mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162008-2	I think that the easiest way to respond to that speech is to say that there is not really any of what the rapporteur said, as I said. On the other hand, I have said that the Socialists are trying so hard to get closer to a good tax system and get it out of the crisis, but we just disagree that it is the small steps and is not a very big revolution in the tax system. by providing resources so that there are enough staff needed. In general, I do not even recognize that with the 1,000 employees, this is something I hold onto. It is in our motion for a resolution to set a course, and now I have said four or five times that it is not the figure that is important that it is the acceptance of the lack of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162047	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162053	Sir. René Gade says that Mr. René Gade lacks a clear feedback on whether we and the other parties in the Folketing support massively more employees. How many are massively more employees? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162119	I have a dogma that I never actually bring papers up here on the platform. I have a dogma that so far I do not discuss figures which are not the facts behind them. Now we are again experiencing why I have the dogma, because as you start to bring figures into play, it is the only thing you talk about, but it is not the numbers that actually tell us what we want; there are no values in those numbers. We come here with one figure, and that may be the fault of our resolution, but we say quite clearly that we think we should start with 1,000 years of slash employees in the SKAT. That increase will be a step in the right direction. Then there is some of what is going to be offset by the fact that there are some who leave the labour market and there are all kinds of preconditions that can make it a smaller or higher figure that is needed. I cannot give a more precise figure than that we start by saying that it is a thousand years' work we are aiming for, and then we have to remove the savings. In addition, we must look at it when we dig deeper and there is some indication that there is actually a lack of employees. If it's only 700, it's amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162225	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162227	It is difficult to give a clear indication of whether you support something you do not know what is. And in addition, we want to have it clarified thoroughly first and see what it actually is that SKAT thinks they need of various things. I also think this is a bit of a pro forma proposal. Firstly, there is a proposal for some arbitrary figure, because why should it be 1,000? Secondly, we are financing it with something which we are well aware we have an agreement on abolishing, and that means that we will not vote in favour of it. That is why this is a signal rather than a purely real political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162304	We believe that our funding is essential and that there is an agreement that the tax will not be abolished. We just disagree on this, and the best thing we can do is say that we want it to be put in place again, and if we can finance it in this way with some parties in here, then it is gratifying. The problem is, of course, that we do not have a majority, but if we can now approach a majority in relation to the fact that more employees came to SKAT on this scale, which I am talking about, whether it will not be until autumn or when it will be, then we will have to take it with us. All I need is this acceptance. I am constantly asked for figures, no one in the Chamber says: yes, we lack people in the SKAT. It must be hard for those in the SKAT to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162345	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162405	Thank you. This proposal is, of course, on top of the discussion we have had for a few years now, unfortunately somewhat delayed in relation to the warnings we received from people working in this area. Then you can be historically interested and say that it started in 2005 with the structural reform, where the centralized SKAT was centralised. Or you could say that it got worse under the VK government, where these savings were initiated. And it was also too bad that the S-R-SF government did not cancel the savings planned but implemented them. What has been repeated many times today, as I have also said to the tax minister in the past, regardless of whether we agree or not on what needs to be done, is that this is a broad responsibility that lies with many of the parties of the Folketing. When we come up with this motion for a resolution, it is also based on two things. One was this Borg Peace. Some have opposed a word, but at least no one did, as the Minister also used it a few months ago when the parties came together to add extra funds to the SKAT. And there we at least thought from the SF that it was a good idea; the problem was that it was the other thing that was shut down for that discussion. We thought much more was needed. Because we're really on a burning platform. Whether it's the Liberal Alliance or the Enhedslisten, every party in this Parliament believes that society needs to be funded. Then there is a big difference between tax levels. But it is a problem for all of us if we end up where the tax morality is completely at the bottom and where it removes the foundations of our tax-financed society, no matter what we want it to look like. There we are very, very close to being. Compliance for companies is at its bottom. There is virtually no equation and control. We hear from accountants that the morals are down when they're out. The dividend tax has been repaid for at least 10 billion. kr., maybe more. Right now negative VAT is being levelled because there has been a sharp increase in the payment of it. This is insanely important, and it is more than a hole in the treasury that we have to cover one way or another; it is the foundation of our society that is at stake. I do not think that there are any parties here who think it is serious or do not want to do anything about it. However, when we have tabled this resolution, it is also because we cannot wait for a debate on financial legislation to take us into account for social or health savings, or whatever it may be, in order to allocate funds to SKAT, where we think it is important. That's why we from the SF would have liked to have been part of this agreement to add SKAT funds, but that's all, far too little. It sounds in the media as if DF and the Social Democrats have found out that it was far too little. The two parties would like to add more money to the SKAT. Then we say, the proposers: then let us go together to cancel the savings planned, which will also be implemented even with the more money being spent, because at least we will have to remove the savings. It's not safe, it's enough. I believe that the Minister of Taxation is looking forward with some earnestness to the day when the system of complaints is set in motion. It is going to put pressure on SKAT, just like everything that needs to be cleaned up with dividend tax, negative VAT, etc. In fact, we are in a situation where SKAT needs more resources than at a normal time, but in a situation where there are fewer resources. This has been going on for a long time, 10 years. Some 4,000 people have been fired from just over 9,000 to just over 5,000.At the same time, a lot of money has been spent on IT systems that have been oversold and that have not worked, and people have been fired before the systems have worked. And we can now see that EFI has been pulled back completely. We have put a funding proposal into this because we know that we do not accept self-financing proposals over in the Ministry of Finance, and that is why we have proposed this soft drinks tax. We are very interested to hear whether some of the parties that want to participate in this have other funding proposals. But then we'd like to hear them today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524162932	Thank you. And thank you for the contribution of the SF rapporteur, whom I understand that SKAT is on a burning platform, and I would agree with her in part, but the funny thing is that we had another government quite a short time ago where SF had three different tax ministers. In fact, we also had a consultation with the former tax minister from the SF, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, 27 June 2013 on processing times in SKAT, where we also discussed the allocation of resources in SKAT. A former SF minister replied to one of the questions that it is our very clear assessment that the fact that there are fewer employees in SKAT does not go beyond the quality of SKAT's work. That is our very clear assessment. He also answers another question, that we also believe, on the basis of various consultant reports and analyses, that we can do so much more effectively with fewer resources. So I just want to know whether it is the SF's position when you were in government that applies or whether it is the current one that applies. Because it is a bit strange why the efficiency was continued if you could see for yourself that it led to a burning platform. And by the way, if it were to be self-financing, why would people be fired then? I mean, if you thought it was self-financing, you shouldn't have fired them when you were in the tax minister's office.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163053	But the last question, which was indeed asked rhetorically, I would like to answer in another way and say: that is exactly the crux of this. Therefore, I would like to and I will answer the rapporteur's question... read a quote by Ole Kjær, former head of SKAT, who stopped in protest against the Treasury's savings. I quote: "Tax has been saved to pieces. What we are seeing now is an inevitable consequence of the Treasury's constant attack on Tax's resources year after year. Sooner or later, the bill will have to be paid. It will now be, and this whole disaster is, in my opinion, clear proof that the system has failed and must be considered from the outset. I have said time and time again that we all, at least the parties that have been government-led, have a responsibility for this. I actually think DF has that too. There was a time when there was a very optimistic belief that the EFI system, when it was set in motion, was going to work really, really well. That is what the then Minister's statements were based on, in other words, a very optimistic belief that this system would deal with the challenges that existed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163210	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163211	I would very much like to admit, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that we have a share of responsibility, and that is precisely why we are in this circle of agreements to get SKAT out of the crisis. I think it is a pity that the SF has chosen not to do so, because the statements in which it is said that it is our very clear assessment that fewer employees in the SKAT do not go beyond the quality of the work of the SKAT. It is our very clear assessment, a SF tax minister helps fire employees, and even though it is said today that it is self-financing, SF does not choose to take the co-responsibility that one recognises to have. So, should one not have been in the circle of getting SKAT out of the crisis, when one has so openly expressed oneself so firmly in one's own reign that one could just continue to cut chunks after chunks of SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163255	I would like to take responsibility for this on behalf of my party, but it also means that it would be irresponsible to lock us to something that is not enough on all parameters. The ink was hardly dry on the agreement until DF and Social Democracy came running and said that you should have more money for SKAT. With that agreement it was intended that now the tax minister should be calm, that now the Treasury and the SKAT should be quiet, but everyone could see that it was not enough. That is also why we could not agree to the agreement we would like to be involved in finding funding for SKAT. I really don't envy the role of the tax minister right now, it's a huge challenge, so I'm not pointing my finger at the tax minister. But what was played out was hopelessly unambitious, and that was also why among other things. The rapporteur came very quickly and said that there was not enough money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163347	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163350	Thank you. I thought the rapporteur jumped over it a little lightly and tried to make it appear as if the SF got its arm twisted on its back and was forced into the situation that SF came into when one was in government. But let me also read from something from the time SF had a tax minister, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, who in a consultation on 27 June 2013 said the following immediately after the firing of 375 employees in SKAT: It has been characteristic of the development of SKAT that there has been a dramatic decrease in the number of employees in SKAT over the years. And that does not mean that efficiency has diminished. I understand that you can always find a few examples where this could be more effective. But in general it has been made more automated. You use computers and tax returns and do not see people's hands, and in general there is much more machine work so that you can focus on the bigger and more important cases. It is a kind of intelligent equation which I, too, at the last government, put a lot of emphasis on. In this way, you have chosen to say that you want to take responsibility for it and that you want to be made more effective. So I do not agree with the rapporteur's way of wiping out responsibility on others. You have also had a responsibility in this matter yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163509	But I've said that many times. Now the EFI system has completely collapsed, and that is one of several challenges. That is why I say: now that we have all obviously realised that SKAT needs more resources, we are no longer discussing it. The question is how many resources, and then we also have to say that it is not going to come and climb a few hundred million here and there. We need to remove those savings in order to give both the tax minister, the Treasury and the SKAT some tranquillity so that they know what they have to do well with the coming years. So it wasn't to wipe off the responsibility of anyone. I have said countless times that we all have a responsibility here. Compared to the thousands of employees fired under the VK government and the employees fired under the S-R-SF government, there was an overly optimistic belief that new smart IT systems could replace what employees did before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163614	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163615	Well, I'm glad that SF recognizes that you have a responsibility here. I'd like to know when the SF has come to that realization. Because it is only under this government that more people have started to be employed in the SKAT, so it is not something that could have happened before the elections. Or the SF did not succeed in having it changed at the time of the majority that had the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163640	I don't think I'm gonna stand up here botanizing in the internal government discussions that were. We take our responsibility. However, my comment earlier on the Minister of Finance was not specifically addressed to a finance minister in a particular government. It has simply happened that the Minister of Taxation is not allowed to be a minister of the area he is the Resort Minister of the State, at least not when it comes to the economy. And there are a great many experts who say that it is not actually possible for us to have a Ministry of Finance that spends money or commands savings, and then we have a Ministry of Taxation that has no room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163723	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163723-2	Since the SF is so clearly responsible for the situation and has had up to several tax ministers, should the party not also be taking part in the responsibility to rectify things that are possible now? That is my question. I would say, in order to anticipate the answer in relation to this comprehension about the framework of the SKAT, that the arguments we have heard today have been that one did not want there to be muzzle on the parties that the debate stopped and that it was too little money set aside. The first thing about the muzzle is that there is no such thing as the fact that we are discussing it in life now and have been doing so in all the months since, because from the outset we have pointed this out from our point of view. We will continue to keep the government up with the fact that there is a momentum in this area. With regard to the second on resources, SF proposed 300 million. kr. in their own draft budget rather than taking the real progress that was there. And now you propose something quite different. I would like to ask whether we should not shoulder our responsibilities by going into the circle of parties that meet every quarter to follow up matters and thus have a better opportunity to actually change some things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163836	We would very much like to help find more resources for SKAT. I also said directly to the tax minister when we did not agree that it was not a criticism of the tax minister in question, but we just thought that the money dropped off by the government was not enough. When Mr. Jesper Petersen was the financial rapporteur for the SF before we entered the government in 2011, Mr. Jesper Petersen out on behalf of SF and say that SKAT needed 300 million. kr. extra. And it was at a time when we did not even have all these cases of fraud, with EFI etc. So even at that time before the election, when Mr. Jesper Petersen was rapporteur for SF, he said that SKAT needed more funds. So we didn't join that circle now, sir. Jesper Petersen did not like the word 'Borgfred', but it was the stated framework with which the tax minister came, and then I agree with Mr Petersen. Jesper Petersen in that it has not been observed, if that is what was meant by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163948	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524163951	Well, the question is actually left, that is, why you are not helping to shoulder that responsibility. For that is not the case when, when the opportunity arises, you are not included in the agreements which actually make some progress and in the concrete work of taking responsibility for the situation on top of the EFI collapse. I would say that if, in the way one has been able to see that it is developing, it has changed its mind, compared to whether one wants to be in that circle, then I must be the first to support the fact that it is being opened in a way, so also SF and for my sake also like other of the proposers' parties who are here today, can participate in it and therefore keep track of what is happening in SKAT and where more should be done. It is an opportunity, and one can choose it rather than put forward parade proposals in the Folketing, which one knows is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164035-2	But with all due respect, sir. Jesper Petersen, that in connection with the proposal from the tax minister at the time to add extra funds to the SKAT, it was not the case that the Social Democrats managed to push up that number and to get more funds for it. That's what was on the table. But if the tax minister says that we want to be included in the circle and that we cancel the savings or otherwise find a solution, so that we do not have to have these discussions constantly, then we are happy to go along with it. Well, I'm gonna do everything I can to help the tax minister in this situation, and I'm gonna do that in my own special way by continuing to push for extra funds for SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164114	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164119	Thank you. I feel like I'm rolling back five years. This debate is a repeat of what the SF said last time in opposition. Then it was 900 years' work that would be added to the SKAT. Then you got the responsibility. Then you sat in government, and it was some enjoyable consultations we had with SF's tax ministers. There was so much promised before the elections, and that was not taken very carefully, and then several of my good colleagues have referred to what the then SF tax minister said about how irresponsible it would be to spend more money. Can't the SF understand if somebody thinks they've heard this before? In other words, when you are in opposition, you promise that you will add resources. Then you get the keys to the ministries, and you get the power of government, and then you do nothing. Then you are safe and happy about everything and, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, I would just like to wonder why a work has now been started in the Danish Parliament to find a solution, and the SF will not be there. It is therefore a once-in-a-lifetime argument that we are hearing here. When you are in opposition, you can solve the problems when you have the opportunity, you fail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164229	You might have to think a little bit about language. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164236	It doesn't bother me. If this is about spending so much money before we got into government last time, the rapporteur will have to take it with him. Jesper Petersen, for he was the rapporteur at the time. No SF ministers have said that spending more money on SKAT would be irresponsible. But it is true that there have been a number of consultations and discussions, etc., when the EFI was about to be introduced. That's when you had an overoptimistic belief that this might solve a part of it. But again, we take on the responsibility that is ours. But I also think it is incumbent on all of us to find out how to move forward from here. After all, I am not messing with the fact that it is the overall responsibility of the Left to change the whole tax system in the first place. So we can't stick to what we're doing in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164340	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164342	But it is just incredibly easy to stand as an opposition and say that now we can do everything. It was just as in the run-up to the 2011 elections: 900 years' work. That was the message from the SF, and SF must go on, whether you have changed the rapporteur or not. When you sit in government and have the opportunity, you suddenly see the light. Everything's fine. It would almost be irresponsible to spend more money on SKAT, was the announcement from SF's then tax minister. Let's hear it again. Is it not a pity, then, that we do not take responsibility and go in and carry out the task that many parties have jointly said has to be solved, rather than just sounding like an echo from the time of the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164429	The Borg Peace Agreement was actually criticised by several, among others. by a management expert, in order to shut down the self-examination process that should have been. But enough about it. We want to help find extra money. It doesn't have to be the soda tax. This could be the land tax relief of 0.5 billion. kr. a year, including: The left was behind it. It is also a financing proposal. We can find a lot of others. If we all agree that SKAT needs additional funds, then let us find that funding together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164505	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524164533	The reason for today's debate is that it is bad in the SKAT today. SKAT's misery is due to a dangerous cocktail of massive cuts, endless organizational changes and failed IT projects. This has resulted in chaos, which means that less money is recovered, scammers have crowned days and the quality of the SKAT's work has deteriorated. Once again, the sense of justice and the legal certainty of the citizens suffer. Trust in SKAT unfortunately disappears as dew for the sun as both political and management skeletons roll out of the closet. The situation is simply unsustainable. And it's been a long time. As early as 2007, the State auditors pointed out that SKAT was not provided with the necessary resources when it was set up. In 2005, approx. 11,500 employees in SKAT, in 2006 there were approx. 9,200, while in 2015 there were approx. 6,200 years' work. It is simply not possible to ensure operation, product development and reconstruction at the same time, while at the same time cutting resources massively. And scandals we've seen coming as pearls on a leash. We have had the scandal of a common recovery system, the EFI, which was to solve recovery tasks and which meant that thousands of employees were fired at the same time. The system has now been scrapped and the arrears are rising at record speed. Among other things: In reply to question 363 of the Committee on Taxation, it can be seen that when the EFI was shut down in mid-September, recovery fell by an average of 300 to 400 million. kr. a month. So these problems in recovering the money are a problem we very much still have. It is a huge problem, a disastrous problem. We also saw on 1 April 2015 that it came out that SKAT had not responded to information that more than 200 Danes had approx. 4.8 billion kr. in tax havens in Switzerland. In August 2015, it was found that the payouts of equity dividends have been fraudulent. That's about. 9 billion kr., which the Treasury has lost on fraud in that account. And here at the beginning of the year, in January, it also emerged, for example, that there has been extensive fraud with negative VAT, and according to DR's documentary series "How to Fake Denmark" there is also the risk that many of the money that has been fraudulent has been used to fund terrorism. With regard to VAT payments, one must also look at the fact that in 2010 there were requests for payment of 160 billion. kr. In 2015, that amount has risen to 226 billion. kr. It's a huge rise. When only a few percent of these billions of dollars are controlled, you might think that more fraud is taking place than you can immediately control. It is also against this background that professional organisations have been calling out for years that more employees are needed, that more resources are needed, that employees earn their own wages. The Danish Customs and Tax Association has been out with calculations that say that an employee in SKAT earns his salary on average five times. These are the same calculations that the FTF has done. So if political action is not taken, then the savings that have been devastating to the SKAT for the last ten years will simply continue. If we look at the Finance Act adopted for 2016, one can see from the projections over the years that SKAT's budget will automatically fall towards 2019, so in the period from 2016 to 2019 overall there will be a saving of over 1 billion. kr., and that SKAT's budget in 2019 with the base there will be over 0.5 billion. kr. less than at the time of adoption of the Finance Act. For Enhedslisten, it stresses that there is no recognition among the majority of the majority in the parliament that there should be, namely that the savings in the SKAT have been devastating and further savings in the SKAT will therefore be a disaster and that all further savings therefore have to be taken off the table. This motion for a resolution is about putting a plug in and saying: Now we have learned that saving on SKAT is a really bad business. It's really stupid. It goes beyond the money we can scrape into the common fund and into the welfare of all of us, but it also goes beyond the confidence in SKAT, which is, of course, the whole backbone of the funding of our welfare system. Now that it has been wrong for the last ten years, we must stop doing something that is wrong. Then we have to plug in a plug, then we have to stop the bleeding, then we have to cancel all the planned savings in the SKAT in the years to come. That is what this resolution is about. We who are behind this motion for a resolution simply do not believe that it will be possible for SKAT to be restored with the drastic savings that lie in the budgets, and we therefore want to cancel all planned savings in SKAT. As far as funding is concerned, we believe that hiring people is self-financing. It is also important in this context to point out that SKAT actually knows very well what each employee is trying to scrape in, i.e. how many times each employee earns his salary home. From Enhedslisten's side we have tried several times to get those figures out of the tax minister. It has not succeeded. We're really sorry about that. It is not because we want to sit and discuss individual offices or departments in SKAT, but we think that when the discussion on financing comes up, it must also be possible for the tax minister to present the information that the tax minister has access to in SKAT, where you can see for each employee how much money is being scratched in. You can therefore see how much an employee averages, for example. drags in when it comes to the payment of VAT. The information I have, and what I hear, is that it is many millions of kroner that each employee who is employed to work with the control of VAT payments drags home to the common fund. The general logic here should of course be that there should be a link between the revenue side and the expenditure side. It is a problem that the Ministry of Finance sees any employment in SKAT as an expense that just disappears when it is really about an investment in our all tax systems. So we believe, on the part of the proposers, that there is a need for more resources, that it will be a good business. Then we have even been kind enough to say that although it would be self-financing to hire more staff, we would also indicate funding in the form of the reintroduction of the soda-ash levy. The soda-ash levy is a very, very small part of the price of a soda-ash and does not actually have any impact on the border trade. That is also what we hear from the shops that work in the field of cross-border trade. So that's 600 million. kr. to nothing by abolishing the soda tax. You could safely restore it and spend that money to strengthen the SKAT. The money would certainly be very well spent there. Then there is one thing in this debate that is a little interesting, I think. It's becoming more and more unclear what this circle of citizens or comprehension is really about. The paper on it fills a half-A4 page, where it says something about there having been negative mention of SKAT in the media, and there are some officials who have done something wrong, and now we have to look ahead. The parties that are behind it are the parties that have the main responsibility for destroying the SKAT over the last a little over 10 years. But I have heard rapporteurs from all the parties involved in the conciliation or peace circle say: why will the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and the SF not be in it? I have heard the rapporteur for the SF, I have heard the rapporteur for the alternative say that they would like to be involved in discussing the future of the SKAT, they would like to be involved in discussing how to add more resources to the SKAT. Now, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, I say to the tax minister while I look at him: I would like to help look at how we can add more resources to the SKAT. So what's this Borg Peace Agreement really about? If it's about the parties that are part of the Borg Peace Agreement wanting the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and the SF to discuss it here, then I think we should do it together. Then there is a very obvious forum for it, and that is the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee. So I must admit that I do not quite understand what the criticism is about. We would really like to be involved on the Enhedslisten side, and that is exactly the same as I hear SF and the alternative say. Then there are some rapporteurs that are especially Mr. Jesper Petersen said that you wouldn't want to join the SKAT out of the crisis. I can say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that these are a number of good proposals. There are also good elements in legal certainty package II, but the problem is that the cost compensation that will be granted for large companies to be able to use law firms to make aggressive tax thinking and lead endless cases against SKAT, we are not in favour. That is, after all, part of the financing of legal certainty package II. It is, moreover, a position that a united opposition, when there was a second majority, also had when the proposal came forward from the Conservative, Liberal Alliance and the Left before the elections. So it is the Socialists who have changed their minds. So it's funding that's wrong with it. Then there's the police settlement. I do not remember the details of the police settlement, but I do remember that some 500 million. kr. to finance it was to be taken from youth education. That was part of our argument there. However, with this in mind, I would like to say that the proposal is to cancel all planned savings in SKAT, and it is certainly a work that is very necessary to continue to focus on in the time that is coming, also in connection with the Finance Act for 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165604	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are a few brief comments. The first one is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165610	Thank you. First a little funny sighting: Now has among other things. The Enhedslisten used a large part of the debate to criticize this contract circle behind the SKAT out of the crisis, and then you end by saying that now you really want to join the contract circle behind the SKAT out of the crisis. Well, it's a little funny from this debate. I would really like to say something else, and that is that I agree very much with Enhedslisten that SKAT is incredibly pressured, and I also believe that it will end up with more resources for SKAT, for example. in the area of VAT, but it may also be other areas. I would just like to ask Enhedslisten whether one does not agree that the most serious thing is that we are, after all, waiting for what the tax minister announced, namely to make a statement to Parliament's tax politicians, explaining what is really needed and we then take a position on it. 'Cause I'm not assuming that mr. Rune Lund believes that he is the one who can best say whether it is in the accounting department, the legal department, the HR department, or where it is needed for new employees in the SKAT. Isn't there an understanding at Enhedslisten that we're just waiting to get this statement from the tax minister? For the resolution is that it should enter into force from 1 January 2017, and there is, of course, plenty of time for that if we get the statement from the Minister in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165719	As far as the SKAT out of the crisis is concerned, that is a whole series of good initiatives. I say that here, and we said that in September when it was presented. What is, after all, with the Borg Peace Parties, and what is the basis for the Borg Peace Parties, is such a small half-A4 page with a piece of text which says what I have referred to earlier, namely that the media have talked about the fact that there is some negative mention of SKAT and that some officials are being criticised and that, moreover, it is not the case that the parties who write the small piece of text have political responsibility for SKAT having been destroyed for more than ten years. It was the text you would nod to if you wanted to be part of the community of peace/conciliation/understanding, and that text is a gigantic piece of history forgery, and that is why we said on the side of Enhedslisten that we could not participate in it. But of course we will be involved in any reinforcement of the SKAT. In relation to where the new employees are to be recruited, you certainly know better in SKAT than you know here from Parliament's platform, but what I think is the problem, and which I experience as the problem, is that you have a knowledge in SKAT that it will pay you to hire more employees, but it is not a knowledge that you want to go out with, among other things. because it has been signaled for years by political groups that there is no more money on the way to SKAT, and we want to break that understanding, and it is also in this context that we need to see this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165842	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165847	It is a bit strange that the debate first criticises the fact that the agreement reached here was too thin and too small and that it only filled half a page, and now it is being criticised again, because it was also a pity that it did not fill any more so that it could not be accepted because it needed a larger package. The reason why there are not perhaps hundreds of pages of documents in connection with this agreement is that it is an ongoing process. After all, no one is trying to pretend to the Danes that we have now solved it with the SKAT out of the crisis. That's what's happening all the time. We meet at least once every quarter, and there are ongoing initiatives here in the Danish Parliament to get SKAT out of the crisis, and there is a bit of a pity that Enhedslisten will not be in it. Then I would just like to sign that the Enhedslisten is right to say that the most serious thing is to wait for the Treasury to say how many employees there should be, even if the resolution says that it should be 1.000. That may be a bit contradictory.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524165931	I have to say something. There are two documents we talk about when we talk about September last year. There is a half-A4 page, which is the basis of the Borg Peace, and then there is the proposal that is somewhat longer and that came in a glittery brochure called theskat out of the crisis. In the event of a crisis, it shall be possible, inter alia, to take the measures necessary for the recovery of the aid. in adding more resources to SKAT, which means that SKAT's budget in 2016 when the Finance Act was concluded was almost as large as it was in 2015. It is about a supply of resources to SKAT, and Enhedslisten is in favour of it, and I think all sensible people should do so. But that little half-A4 side, there's not much music in it. In relation to the number and number of people to be employed, I would say that the professional organisations, for example, are: says that there is an urgent need for at least 1,000 employees, and that is for example. Some of what I'm listening to. But it is clear that the precise distribution of the staff is not something you can stand here and decide from the parliamentary platform. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170021	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170026	Yes, I fully agree with what my colleague Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says, but in addition, I think it's funny to hear this explanation that for years there has been too much saving in SKAT and that for years there should have been more employees in SKAT. When you think back, it is not a long time since there was a government other than the Left Government and that government had a different parliamentary basis. It was the parliamentary basis that formed the basis of the vast majority of financial laws adopted at that time. Therefore, I would like to hear if Enhedslisten has long believed that there would be more employees in SKAT • why Enhedslisten did not include it as a point in their Finance Law negotiations, as Enhedslisten was involved in the Finance Law negotiations under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170120	I can assure the rapporteur that we did so every year. Every year we had that requirement for the financial law negotiations. Now some quotes have been read about what a former minister meant about such proposals when they were made at the time. And I would say that these were also the positions that we met in the negotiating room. I can also see that there is a change of attitude on this point, and I would very much like to acknowledge that. I don't think you should go teasing people or bullying people who realize that saving on SKAT was wrong. I think it is a much greater problem that there are politicians who, as the questioner, do not take it seriously enough, that there is an acute lack of resources in the SKAT and that there is an urgent need to add more resources to the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170212	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170215	- Sir... Rune Lund then confirms that in the financial laws, as Mr. Rune Lund has voted in favour, has SKAT been spared, and that the last few years have not actually been saved on SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170232	No, I can't. And there is the fact that when we deal with a financial law and savings, we distinguish between what we call old savings and new savings or old deteriorations and new deteriorations. There has been no new deterioration in the SKAT in the financial laws we have agreed with the previous government. In fact, in the 2015 Finance Act, SKAT's budget increased slightly. It was because we could see that if resources were not added to SKAT in 2015, we would be jointly responsible for a saving in SKAT. So there have been no further deteriorations in finance agreements concluded with Enhedslisten when it comes to SKAT, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170310	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Rune Lund. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170326	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524170354	Some people don't want to be photographed from below, and I don't want to talk from below, which is why we need to adjust the microphone in height. The proposers, with B 143, call on the government to put forward legislative proposals to amend the rules of the Services Act and other laws to ensure that the assistance to parents with a child with disabilities is granted in one overall assessment so that the assistance is coherent, manageable, flexible and coordinated so that it covers the overall needs of the family and the child, regardless of the need being met by different laws. The proposal means that parents of children with disabilities must receive one single help to meet the needs of the family and the child across sectors and authorities. The aid shall be provided in the form of a single global grant which can be used freely on the basis of the family's and child's own assessment of what is most appropriate. The background to the proposal is a well-known issue, namely that some parents of children with disabilities experience that meeting with public systems can be both heavy and difficult. And the government recognizes this problem here and agrees with the proposers that it is important to ensure coherence in action for children with disabilities and their families. We would also like to recognise that there may be a need for greater coordination and coherence in the efforts made under the Services Act, probably also across different sets of rules, but we cannot support the proposers' solution, namely to bring together all assessments, appropriations and interventions in one place. There are three main reasons for this. Firstly, on a number of points, the proposal presupposes a new and inappropriate division of tasks in the public sector, which could weaken the quality of the aid given to children and young people. Secondly, the proposal will mean a dispute over the entire sectoral responsibility, which is one of the guiding principles in the area of disability and which is an important tool for inclusion. Thirdly, the proposal will break with the principle that public aid is provided in order to meet a concrete need for help and support. So overall, this proposal has far-reaching consequences, both professionally, organisationally and in principle, and that is why the government cannot support it. But let me elaborate on the three reasons. My first argument is about ensuring quality and professionalism in the decisions on aid and support given to the child and the family, and it will be very difficult if we follow the proposal to bring together responsibility for all relevant assistance, support, education and treatment to the target group of one authority. Such a solution will require a single authority, for example. a single administration in the municipality, gets full responsibility for both social efforts, health tasks and educational support for children with disabilities and their families. But when we have the division of responsibilities that we know it today, it is precisely because many of the children we are talking about here have very complex problems that require a lot of effort. It can, for example, be done. It is a question of both social and educational interventions within the municipal framework, but also of health care interventions, which it is largely a regional responsibility to ensure. Disabled children will typically receive several different health care services, both from the regions, from general practice and from the municipalities, for example. rehabilitation, physiotherapy, respiratory support, etc. All these services are provided and carried out on the basis of a health professional's assessment and never on the basis of standardized offers. Several of the benefits from the regions will be directly vital. For example: it will be essential for the child to receive the necessary and adequate respiratory assistance, which requires a high level of health assessment. Similarly, rehabilitation and physical therapy at the right level will sometimes be necessary in order to maintain a child's level of function. The assessment of the child's need for treatment requires medical competence and often from several different types of professionals. Therefore, it is difficult to imagine that it is an assessment that can be taken together in one place, for example. in a municipality. Also within the municipality's area of responsibility there will often be a need for specialists in several management branches to get involved. For example: at the school authority, typically the school administration's PPR department, very much about the special educational efforts needed to support a child with e.g. autism or adhd in benefiting from school education. However, the PPR department is not prepared to assess whether the family needs relief at home or whether they need financial support for additional costs or for aids or covering lost earnings. The competences typically lie with the municipal social administration. So these large, divided systems, although they may seem frustrating for the individual family, serve a good purpose: the purpose of ensuring that the children get the most qualified effort all around. But of course the responsible authorities, and this is typically where the municipalities, must be able to think across sectors and administrations and also be able to have a look at the needs of the individual child as a whole. This is already required by both the Services Act and the Legal Protection Act, and this must, of course, be highlighted in practice as well. However, if the assessment of the need and the allocation of all aid are brought together in one place, the effort will be separated from those bodies which have the professional competences. This will reduce the aid to those children who need and demand the best possible effort, and that is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands. My next argument is also linked to the distribution of tasks in the public sector, but has a slightly different angle. The distribution of tasks also supports the principle of sectoral responsibility, which for many years has been one of the guiding principles of Danish disability policy. Sectoral responsibility is important for people with disabilities because it states that all public authorities have a responsibility for the availability of their services to people with disabilities. They must also ensure that disability policy aspects are considered in policy development in their respective areas. So, in short, the principle of sectoral responsibility ensures that all areas take responsibility for ensuring that people with disabilities, both children and adults, have the same opportunities as others in their respective areas. So if we follow the proposal and bring together the disability effort in one place, responsibility will no longer lie with the individual sector, for example. the health sector or the education sector, as we know it today. And this will mean that the various sectors will no longer be equally obliged to ensure that the services and services they provide to the population as a whole are also available to children with disabilities. I am, for example. Concerned that schools will not be equally accessible and able to think about the needs of disabled children in all parts of the education, if it is not So, when you start to deal with sectoral responsibility, you risk, in general, that some sectors become less accessible and less inclusive, and thus you risk increasing the exclusion of children with disabilities. My last argument concerns both professionalism and economics, and it is linked to the part of the proposal which deals with the concrete organisation of aid. Because professionalism is also very important when the aid is actually provided, and that is why I am actually very concerned about this part of the proposal where it says, and now I quote: "The family receives one single grant covering all the needs of the family and the child, and that this aid can be used freely on the basis of the family and child's own assessment of what is most appropriate in relation to the family's everyday life. For even if the support should make sense to the family, it must also meet the specific needs of the child and the helper who provides the support must be professionally qualified to carry out this task. For example: the person who helps at school must have educational skills, while the person who helps with the breathing apparatus must have medical skills. And those competences must be used purposefully and sensibly, both for the sake of the child and for the sake of the public economy. You can, for example. take a disabled child who is given special educational assistance at school because it is deemed necessary in the course of teaching. It would be very inappropriate if parents were to have the right to use this support outside the school. It is not for the benefit of the child, and it is not at all socio-economically sound. If the family is given free access to the aid, we risk that the child will not receive the necessary specialized support, which will benefit the most, while instead the aid will be used for something that we do not normally spend the tax money at all on. So it is not a responsible solution and therefore not a solution that we can support. So there are serious reasons why the government cannot support this proposal. However, as I also said at the outset, I agree with the authors that parents of children with disabilities need and need coordinated and coherent action. And that is also why we are ready to strengthen the coordination of efforts, so that we ensure to a much greater extent that it becomes man who comes before the system. This is particularly true in the municipal area where, as I said, a great many administrations and actors are in the process. I therefore hope that during this debate we can find a common runway for how we can follow up this motion for a resolution without going into the very fundamental and very extensive changes presented in the motion for a resolution. My suggestion is that I, as the disability coordinating minister, should set up a working group to look at the issue, which should identify good experiences and come up with proposals for solutions which are precisely designed to improve the coherence of efforts where the family is at the heart. I am sure that we can find support for such work, both in the municipalities and in the regions, which are, of course, responsible for organising the work on a day-to-day basis. For better coordination is not only for the benefit of the citizens concerned, but also for the benefit of the responsible authorities. The municipalities have been focusing on this for many years now, and there are also some municipalities that have come very far in this work, both in terms of strengthening internal cooperation, but also in terms of cooperation with the region. For example: I know that several municipalities are working with offers of a coordinating case worker for families with children with disabilities. So I would like to invite both KL and Danske Regionser to join this working group, which, I believe, should also be made up of representatives from the relevant ministries and possibly other actors. In fact, I believe that with such a working group we can get some concrete proposals for solutions and that we will have a better, more solid knowledge base to stand on before we then take a position on any future action. Therefore, I would suggest that the setting up of such a working group could be included in a committee report on B 143 and I hope that with the debate that is beginning now I will be able to find support for such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524171632	Thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. We shall then move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524171646	Thank you. When Social Democracy is co-sponsors of this proposal, it is related to the fact that we see it as of great importance that the social safety net works, is effective, coordinated and understandable. We further want the safety net to be based on a high level of knowledge and insight into all its functions, and at the same time, of course, we must ensure that costs are met. Unfortunately, we have numerous examples of families with children who have a disability that feels challenged and sometimes almost like a throwing ball between several bodies that do not necessarily coordinate their efforts with the other players. That is the situation which we would very much like to see resolved with the proposal here today. In the context of the municipal reform, much was said about the fact that there should be only one entry point for citizens into the public sector. For this reason, municipalities were given a great responsibility for the citizen-specific tasks. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of pillar thinking, as the Minister himself has also described, in relation to the fact that there are many divisions in different sectors within the municipality. I believe that many good explanations of the divisions can be found in isolation when looking at matters from a systemic point of view. Faced with this point of view, however, a family often has an experience of being throwing ball between different boxes and sectors at the same time, while at the same time having their everyday life to work in a family that has to handle tasks that they did not imagine in their wildest imagination. Our business in this discussion is to take the citizens' side to the systems by ensuring that there is coordination and that there is thought about the situation of each family in everyday life with all the contacts they have and have to make up for when decisions are to be taken and measurements are to be made. Is there the necessary involvement of families in the way we knit aid together for them and their children? We want to make sure that is the result of that debate, and we would certainly also like to sign up for the Minister's extensive hand in helping to set up a committee to help find the good examples and to help find good and constructive solutions. On the other hand, in relation to the Minister's in-depth comments, I must say that I like what was in the second half of the year rather than what was in the first half, where there were many pointed fingers in relation to everything that the systems were supposed to represent. The truth is that within the individual municipality, it is the municipality that disposes and says that they will have the work to do in that and that pillar. It is not necessarily the citizens' conditions, and the municipality has the power to reach out and say that they have a coordinating function, which they put on the task with the intention of ensuring that citizens understand and have insight into, and even sometimes influence, how and how the aid is organised. We think this is reasonable and understandable. We do not think there is much music in changing the distribution of tasks between the regions, which, of course, has the health-care and often treatative aspect. It is like a part that we have to have as an underlying premise, but the municipalities can perform and perform today, according to the Minister's statement, great differences in the quality of the service that many families experience. And that's what we'd like to play on the field with regard to making this proposal. We are happy to participate in the preparation of a report with the aim of getting a better service to citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524172104	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524172111	Thank you. This motion for a resolution is about requiring the government to put forward legislative proposals to amend the Social Services Act and other laws in order to ensure that help to parents who have a child with disabilities is granted according to an overall assessment. Such a bill should ensure that the aid is coherent, flexible, manageable and coordinated and covers the family and the child's overall needs and that it is irrelevant to parents that the aid is based on several laws and regulations. Parents who have a child with disabilities should not only relate to the shock that the child did not quite become as they might have imagined. Afterwards they are thrown into a time-consuming and not least exhausting fight against the public in order to get the help they need and the right to. It reinforces their general uncertainty about the future as parents of a child with a disability, and it also increases their stress. Parents have a hope that the system treats them with care and respect, but they often soon discover that reality looks quite different. Parents of children with disabilities need much help from the social system to make their everyday life coherent. They are ordinary people who have no prior experience with the public system, and often they find it extremely difficult to get information about what they can get help with. And when they find out for themselves, it is very bureaucratic to be allowed to achieve the things they obviously need. The help that parents, among other things. need, are basic things like supplements to go home to care for the child, relief, home arrangements to suit a wheelchair, rails to the legs, training and possibly also weekend stays for the child. I often believe that parents experience suspicion in meeting with the public, and many find that they have to fight very hard and provide much evidence to get the things they clearly need to be granted. This may result in parents also seeking help from independent social workers in several cases, as they may sometimes find that the caseworker becomes a opponent and not a co-player. Having a child with a disability often presents a family with great challenges, as it can be very complicated just to make everyday life work. Nowadays, many rules are often managed by several case officers on the basis of the principle of sectoral responsibility, depending on whether it is the Health Act or the Service Act, or whether the help is to be provided by the school, and families are often in contact with several case officers, depending on the sector that is providing the help. In the Danish People's Party, it is our wish that it should not in any way burden the families, and we have unfortunately seen examples of this. The fact that families themselves often have to act as wrestlers between different case workers, depending on who is to provide the help, is something that requires a lot of resources, which can often be difficult to find when you have a sick child or a child with a disability. In the Danish People's Party we also think that a coordinating counsellor can be a good idea, that is, that there is someone to coordinate and be a ropekeeper for the family so that they do not have to stand with it themselves. Unfortunately, we have seen that some municipalities can be creative, including setting a ceiling on aid, or maybe they do not have that help or care. This resolution can also help to improve the knowledge of the law on legal certainty as a municipality. Some of the paragraphs covered by the resolution include: • additional costs, lost earnings, accompanying, supporting and helping rehabilitation and helping to develop mental and social skills. The Danish People's Party wants strengthened and holistic help for families with a child with disabilities, which is why we support this motion for a resolution on which we are also co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524172540	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524172546	Thank you. The Left recognises the issue, which is expressed in the motion for a resolution, but does not support the proposal for several reasons. We fear, on the one hand, that a new and inappropriate division of tasks can weaken the quality of the work by spreading it, and, on the other, that a dispute with sectoral responsibility, which the resolution also expresses, may lead to people not having the same opportunities in the various areas of responsibility. Finally, we do not want to change the principle that public aid must meet a specific need for help and support. Having said that, the Left also takes the view that the public must think across sectors, but also across administrations, when it comes to providing good and coherent help. I also believe that the municipalities want to assume that responsibility a long way along the way. Already today there are municipalities that have coordinating case workers for families with children with disabilities. When I mention this example, it is because the Left can support the Minister's proposal to set up a working group to look at the problem, to identify good experiences such as the one I just mentioned, and to come up with proposals for solutions to the challenges and problems that I started by saying that the resolution wants to solve everything with the aim of achieving better coherence in the common approach to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524172800	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524172807	A majority of Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative and the SF have tabled a motion for a resolution on simplifying assistance for children with disabilities. The intention behind the proposal is to make it easy and unbureaucratic for parents of children with disabilities to obtain the help they are entitled to, even if the aid is provided by several laws and regulations. In concrete terms, I understand that the family must have one single grant which they can use freely based on the family's own assessment of what is best in relation to the family's everyday life. In the Liberal Alliance, we share the intention to make it easier to access authorities and to get the help that is required, and that is, of course, the safety net that is the whole basis of our welfare societies. In reality, this should not just be the case for families with children with disabilities. This should be the case for all citizens who need help. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the public sector has become far too complex. It takes almost an academic education to find out where and how to renew your passport. When you hear exactly how people are thrown around in the system with disabilities or other challenges, you have to take your head. It is so inappropriate and it must also cost too many tax dollars. You have patched up laws where you should have taken a basic approach, and this has been done for many years. The result has been that it is trouble in the public sector. No one can really find out who has which ball, and it feels citizens being thrown around in the system. That is why the Liberal Alliance fully shares the proposers' desire to clean up and make it so easy and straightforward for the individual family to get the help they are entitled to. However, this must of course be done wisely, and I have difficulty in seeing exactly how this is to be done in practice on a stand-by basis and on the basis of the motion for a resolution before us. Therefore, I think it is positive to hear that the Minister would like to work for this and set up a working group that can look across relevant ministries, KL and Danske Regions on how to do it here, so that as a family, when you approach and need help across laws and regulations, you get one entry and a coordinated effort. I also believe that we should participate politically in such a working group, because, as I read this motion for a resolution, it is a political vision in this area, and I think it is very important to include this in the continued work so that it is not just officials who sit and draft a proposal, but so that we sit politically at the table. So, to sum up, we in the Liberal Alliance think that this is a very good initiative. We think that there are some good overall visions. We support them, and we look forward to the continued work so that we can make it easier for families to get the help they are entitled to and need.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173125	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173131	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is intended to ensure a better and clearer procedure and the granting of aid to parents of children with disabilities, and when you look at who has tabled the proposal, there seems to be a majority in favour of it. This is a need which both parents and various organizations have often called attention to. As it is today, most parents are in contact with several different administrations and case officers to ensure the necessary help for their children, and the help is then put together on the basis of a variety of grants, each with its own individual rules. The aid obtained may then be outsourced to different providers with additional individual agreements and guidelines. And all that, then, is the family's responsibility to find the head and tail in and make sure to make it work. Of course it shouldn't be like that. In general terms, we should simplify the administration of the municipalities and at least make every effort to ensure that it is not necessary for the user to have to deal with the complex administrations of the municipalities. In connection with the submission of this bill, we have received in committee a series of inquiries from parents describing the problematic conditions in which they must navigate every day. And on an almost daily basis we receive requests from frustrated parents who are grateful for the help, but who are frustrated by all the energy they and any helpers may spend on navigating bureaucratic rules and appropriations. We have a welfare system for which we can be proud and grateful, but it should also be the case that managing the many complicated appropriations did not create additional burdens, concerns and frustrations. And the very point with all the help is to assist people to have a more uncomplicated and smooth everyday life. I hope that the support for this motion for a resolution can ensure the debureaucratisation that most parties talk about so much and that we can thus provide a huge relief of everyday life for families with children with disabilities. And at the same time we can hopefully save resources outside the municipalities, which instead of managing and controlling can spend the gunpowder on service and welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173401	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker in line is Mr. Johannes Lebech as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173412	On the part of the Radical Left, we can see very well the intentions of the proposal and fully recognise them. There is no doubt that strong and targeted coordination between many bodies in municipalities and regions and between many professions is desirable, but we believe that it is quite difficult to establish in the real world. Some reservations have already been raised here. Perhaps experience can be gained from some of the resource processes that have been carried out over a period of time in connection with the application for early retirement, where different professions such as social, health and education are concentrated around the individual's need to increase their ability to cope better with themselves. Before a solution may be found for better and more flexible coordination, the Radical Left will propose that a family with a child with disabilities who needs more professional involvement in a better life be assigned a family counsellor who can guide the family and the various bodies with which the family is connected, so that it becomes meaningful and so that the family is in focus. The family counsellor can also arrange joint meetings between the professions and the family. It could be a case worker who was responsible for the individual family. It is a method that could to some extent correspond to a patient counselor. But of course these are also things that can be addressed in the working group which we find interesting the government wants to set up around the whole issue. The working group should, of course, look at more options for solving the task, and we are following this with great interest from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173544	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173552	Having a child with disabilities can change the everyday life of a family, and it takes part of the parents to provide the necessary support for their child. For many parents, one of the biggest challenges is to find a way around the public system to help them and their children. It is the intention of this proposal that it should be made easier. Compensation for loss of earnings, coverage of additional costs, application for AT, social pedagogic assistance and support in day care institutions and schools, relief, advice on the parental role of a disabled child, family care, etc. are just some of the kinds of help that a child and a family may need. The proposal is in no way an attempt to put an end to sectoral responsibility, but it often involves different sets of rules, for example. service law, primary school law, health law, etc., which was intended to complement each other, but which, unfortunately, could work against each other. From my previous experience as psychology in Pedagogical Psychological Counselling and Family Departments, I have experienced how confusing it can seem from the parents' perspective. It may be difficult enough to see the logic of it and make the measures fit together as a professional. I have also learned how important individual skills are to understand the needs of the child, so the proposal is not about eliminating the differences between skills, but rather about strengthening the interaction between them. The comments mention a number of paragraphs on which aid can be granted, but it also states that the list is not necessarily exhaustive. For example: it will also be relevant to include section 52 of the Services Act, from which a number of families are also helped, e.g. in connection with family care. But we must look at it all in the further reading. In the SF, as I said, we are neither interested in changing the importance of professionalism nor in sectoral responsibility, but we believe that coordination and coherence should be strengthened so that the system does not seem so fragmented for families. In the SF, we do not believe that it should be the citizen's responsibility to make the many regulations coherent, and we have an important task in ensuring a holistic and coherent effort, which can be based on a concrete, individual assessment of the needs of the child and the family, and which can also be made so flexible that it gets the help and support to play together in reality. We have therefore helped to put forward this proposal, which is aimed at finding solutions to how aid and aid can be better coordinated. I hope, of course, to be able to continue to support the proposal, preferably as widely as possible, and if it involves any further negotiations, we are, of course, also willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173853	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And the next honourable speaker is Mr. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524173903	Thank you. Motion for a resolution B 143 is about simplifying help for children with disabilities, so that help for parents who have a child with disabilities is granted on the basis of an overall assessment. And that is a proposal with which the Conservative People's Party agrees far along the way. For us Conservatives, it is about the public system being for the citizen and not the other way around. Families with children with disabilities are already under great pressure in everyday life, and so I understand that the family can see it as an extra pressure to have to deal with several different administrations, several different funds, different sectors and different case managers. When parents of a child with disabilities meet the public system, I think it is important that they meet as few faces as possible so that a relationship of trust between the citizen and the system can be established more easily. Basically, the citizen does not care where in the administration the grant comes from. The most important thing must be that the aid is the right one and that the system is seen accessible to the citizen. The Danish Handicap Federation also points out the problem. They write that parents have to run the corner between many different administrations when they seek help for their children. This is obviously deeply inappropriate, and it is something we have a joint responsibility to improve. That is why we also support the need to simplify the system that the citizen encounters, so that it is not the organisation of the public sector that is at the heart, but rather the help that the citizen needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524174038	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524174047	Thank you for all the many positive statements on the motion for a resolution we have tabled here together with five parties. Before making the proposal, I had the opportunity to inform myself and hear a number of parents' descriptions of how difficult it is to make everyday life work when you have a child with disabilities, and the help the child and family receive is fragmented and inflexible. A mother tells how the help for her son, who has muscle loss and goes second grade, is split up so that it is granted three different places in the municipal system. That results, for example. In that when the son is too sick or tired to go to school, what frequently occurs, the child's helper at school cannot relieve the parents. The helper must stay at school while the other helps meetings to solve the job at home. There are two different places at work for the same child. Another mother tells how it causes problems when the daughter is going to birthday with schoolmates and how complicated it is if the daughter wants to go home with friends from school. A father tells us that a couple of summers ago the family counted no less than 28 different helpers in a few weeks. The images speak for themselves of a completely incalculable casework, help and support for individual children and parents. Today, it is unfairly difficult for too many parents of children with disabilities when seeking support and help according to a number of different rules that do not play properly together. There is far too little opportunity to provide a coherent service to support children's social life so that they, like all other children, can develop and maintain friendships and companionships with other children, and the lack of coherence makes it unnecessary for many parents of children with disabilities to make everyday life work in a way that both their working lives and their privacy can be linked. That is why I am very pleased that we are five parties that have been able to come together on a joint motion for a resolution and that we have been able to see that we can count so many chairs in this Chamber that there is a majority in favour of simplification in this area, which can give both children and parents a better life, but also means that we can actually have a more rational use of resources. I note that virtually all the rapporteurs have supported the intentions of the proposal and that the Minister has done the same, but is somewhat opposed to the concrete proposal. I would therefore like to say that, in my view, there is nothing in the remarks made by the Minister to justify not adopting the proposal made by the five parties. I note that the Minister points out that there will be difficulties in ensuring coordination which does not quite break with the traditions of public procedures. I am sure that we can solve the problems that exist across sectors in a way that enables the citizen to see that, although there are more bodies and sectors involved, citizens will experience a simpler procedure in which they will be able to talk to a person who coordinates their efforts. I would like to quote the Vice-President of the Danish Social Advisor Association, Niels Christian Barkholt, and before I may make it clear that it is of course interesting that those who handle the proceedings in this area in the municipalities think it is an excellent proposal and are not concerned about whether it is possible to carry out this coordination. And Niels Christian Barkholt, Vice-President of the Danish Social Advisor Association, says: It is high time that legislation also began to define coordination and cooperation across sectors. So there is nothing wrong with the fact that several sectors are involved in this, but we need to ensure a procedure that brings together from the various sectors and gives citizens the experience that there has been a considerable simplification of the allocation of aid. And we must also ensure, in the practical application of the aid, that we do not have the problems I have tried to describe here with the child, who cannot get his helper with him, whether it be at school, at the birthday or at home, but must be dependent on a number of different helpers. I understand that the Minister is saying that there is a need to look into the matter here, which is why it is also so good that the five parties have not put forward a legislative proposal, because then it was binding, and then we should immediately put procedures in place afterwards, when we had finished the bill here before the Constitution Day, and that could of course give the Minister sweat on the head. I have to admit that honestly. But now it is a motion for a resolution that we have tabled, and it provides ample opportunity for when a legislative proposal is to be tabled before the end of this year. However, there are more than six months to discuss the matter with the National Association of Municipalities, with the regions, with Danske Handicaporganisations, with the Danish Social Advisor Association and, above all, with the proposers who have raised the proposal in this Chamber. So I would say that it is very good that so many positive comments have been made. I think it is very sensible for the Minister to think that we should organise it as a working group or whatever it may be. It is very reasonable that six months should be spent effectively, so that we take into account the issues raised by the Minister in his speech. But I do not think there is any reason why we should postpone the adoption of the resolution. On the contrary, it will provide a very good framework for the work, because then we have set a course for what needs to be done, and then I am sure that we will be able to resolve together the issues raised by the Minister in his speech here. So I hope for a good further debate in committee, and I expect that when we close the Things here before the summer break, we will have a motion for a resolution indicating the direction of the working group what it might be for work to take place towards the submission of a legislative proposal by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524174744	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524174800	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524174838	The motion for a resolution contains three elements designed to provide better opportunities to compensate caregivers and abused children. First of all, by the end of 2016, the government will have to make legislative proposals so that the limitation period for claims against public authorities by caregivers and abused children will follow the limitation periods for criminal proceedings in cases of sexual abuse against children. Secondly, the government must initiate and complete a committee work on higher compensations for caregivers and abused children. Thirdly, the government must make the temporary suspension of child custody on paper permanent. It is appalling when children are subjected to abuse or neglect, whether parents, perhaps foster parents or the public authorities have failed. Therefore, it is also crucial for the government that abused and careless children have the opportunity to get redress, including through compensation or compensation from those who have failed. The government is focusing on cases of child abuse. We have tabled a proposal to increase the penalties for child abuse by one year, on which Parliament will vote on Thursday, and we have extended the video consultation system so that children are treated as gently as possible in the judicial system. That is why the government can support the motion for a resolution, which is fleeing with the government's own policy in this area. As regards the first paragraph of the motion for a resolution on the limitation period, I have already indicated in April, at a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Internal Affairs, that the Government will present proposals for amending the limitation periods in these cases. In the course of the consultation I outlined a possible solution, such as: would imply that the limitation period in cases of claims against public authorities by caregivers or abused children starts to run from the date on which the person reaches the age of 21 at the earliest. Since the consultation, we have been working on the solution and have, among other things, been working on it. also had discussions with the Children's Conditions and the Children's Council on this. The discussions have confirmed that abused or careless children are often unable to take action against a public authority until the child reaches adulthood. And even as an adult, a person who has been subjected to neglect or abuse needs time to initiate a trial, as he or she will often be traumatized by the events of childhood. In order to take account of these particular concerns and ensure fairness for the victim, I expect to make a proposal in the forthcoming session to amend the statute of limitations. The proposal we are working on will extend the general limitation period in cases of claims against public authorities made by caregivers or abused children, from the applicable three years to 15 years, which will not start to run until the victim reaches the age of 21. This ensures that the limitation period in cases of claims against public authorities by caregivers or abused children, as set out in the proposal, is at least equivalent to the limitation periods laid down in the criminal code in cases of sexual abuse. Against this background, the government can therefore support the part of the motion for a resolution which concerns the length of the limitation period. As regards the second point of the motion for a resolution, I have indicated in the past that I will call stakeholders from the courts, the bar and the prosecution, the compensation board and victim organisations to a series of meetings to discuss the general level of tort and infringement compensation in cases between the perpetrator and the victim. My officials have held a meeting with the stakeholders, and I expect another meeting before the summer holidays and expect to be able to return to the Folketing before the end of 2016. The government has therefore undertaken work to discuss the general level of compensation for torture and violation of the victims of crime and can therefore also support the part of the resolution which concerns this issue. Finally, on the third point of the motion for a resolution on child case disposal, a temporary ban on the disposal of municipal children's cases on paper has been introduced since autumn 2014. The stop was introduced for the sake of the possibility for the children concerned to gain a look at their cases later. Now that we extend the limitation period and thereby strengthen the ability of those concerned to take action for damages later, another argument is being created to make it permanent. The government can therefore also support the proposal to stop child care cases on paper permanently. So in other words, the government can support the resolution. I am pleased that, across the Folketing, we can agree to create better opportunities for the recovery of careless and abused children not only in relation to the perpetrator, but also in relation to a public authority that has failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175322	Thank you. Since there is no wish for short remarks, we thank the Minister for Justice and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as rapporteur for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175353	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. It may be surprising to some that the Social Democrats are not in favour of this proposal. I would say that we have had a great many discussions on this, and in the Social Democratic Party we are in favour of the complete abolition of limitation periods. In other words, we are in favour of a more far-reaching amendment to this legislation than is proposed in the proposal. And as I understand from the discussions that have taken place, both in the media and, incidentally, it also seems that there is a majority in the Folketing for us to go all the way. That is why, of course, I would like to call for the motion for a resolution to be dealt with in committee and, of course, I would also ask the parties behind the motion for a resolution to consider whether we will be prepared to go further on the discussions we have had in the course of this debate. When we choose to go that way, it is because we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a special responsibility when it is the case that, as a society, we take responsibility for children who are at risk. All children have the right to have a safe childhood, and there we are far from being there yet, and where parents, because they grow up in a dysfunctional family, are not able to shoulder that responsibility, and society then goes in and takes over, there is of course a need for us as a society to pay particular attention to how vulnerable a situation these children are in, and therefore we must also follow up on the conditions in which they live. Unfortunately, we have a number of examples of this not quite being the case. The latest case in Slagelse has been the one that has been debated, and unfortunately this case is not unique and unique. It is not quite clear from the motion for a resolution whether a distinction is made between the issue of guilt and the question of compensation, and there is, of course, some possibility that we can now discuss it in committee. But for the Social Democratic Party, it is not essential that many decades after that, for example. When we talk about Godhavnsboys • is the basis for compensation questions. That is not what is being asked for. We must remember what it is like for them, where it has been many decades since that happened. When you ask them what the most important thing is for them, they say it's not about money. It is about someone assuming responsibility for having done them wrong; that wrong was committed against them at a time when the state had them in custody. It is, and one knows this, when dealing with child abuse, because an important part of the healing process, if one has been exposed to such things in his childhood, is that someone assumes responsibility and says that there was actually an injustice against them as children. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party would like to discuss in committee whether to separate the two tracks. A limitation period is imposed on the part relating to the amount and question of compensation, against the fact that the sum will then be considerably greater than it is today, in one direction, and then it is said that after some number of decades it is no longer the essential thing. Then it is essential that we get an official apology and that somebody takes responsibility for what has happened. I would like to say that I believe we have come a long way about this. It still annoys me that we cannot get the Prime Minister to give the Godhavn boys and stripes of other children who have been in orphanages back in time, the excuse that I think they ought to get. I hope that this can be the first step on the way to providing support for them to have it. However, I would like to thank the proposers again for bringing this to the Chamber and I hope that we will have a very good discussion afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175746	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175751	Thank you. I just need to make sure that I have understood the position of the Social Democrats correctly. Is it correct to understand that in relation to these civil claims that we are talking about here, against municipalities for lack of supervision, there should be no obsolescence rules at all? And if that is correctly understood, what about the criminal claim against the person who committed the attack? Is the party prepared to have a 15-year limitation period in that case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175820	The last part I will leave to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to decide on, that is to say, the part relating to criminal matters. This is, of course, an incredibly relevant question, and it also needs to be raised, but I think that there should be some strange confusion in this area between the social and justice sectors. To the first part, I can just say 'yes' quite clearly. I guess that's the simple answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175842	I just cannot help thinking that we also have a responsibility to ensure that people do not sacrifice legal costs to actions that are obviously hopeless 40-50 years later, where there is no way to lift the burden of proof. But it doesn't seem to matter. It is believed that limitation periods should be abolished so that people can sue the municipalities with great risk of not lifting the burden of proof after so many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175912	Yes, that is absolutely right, and it is also quite true that this Achilles heel is here. It's not without dilemmas when you move down this road, and this is one of the obvious dilemmas. It is therefore also very wise that, in connection with this motion for a resolution, a stop has been proposed to the automatic shredring of children's cases. Because that means that at least part of the evidence will be there more in the future. But yes, of course it will be the case that some children have been subjected to abuse and cannot prove it because it was incredibly long ago. And if you ask those who are still living today, it is a risk they are at least willing to take, and that is why I think we should let them go ahead with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524175949	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180003	There is nothing more terrible than thinking about when children are abused and abandoned. Failure is a failure, regardless of who commits it, but when it comes to the failure of those who should be closest to the child or young person, i.e. those who have biological relations with the child or the young person, or those who have taken on and been assigned the task of caring, when the former fails to fulfil their obligations and responsibilities, then it is almost what one can call disabling for the child and for the young person. Unfortunately, in recent years there have been cases of this nature which have emerged, not because child abuse is a new phenomenon historically, but because more attention has been paid to it in recent times when it takes place, both in the media and in the political world. This is, of course, a good thing when it comes to the subject, because often it is a matter of cases that have gone on for a long time, cases that should have been discovered and where the atrocities should have been stopped long ago. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in several cases. Legislation has been tightened up in recent years, and my view is that, among other things, there is one thing that needs to be done. with the package of attacks and an increased focus on the responsibilities of the municipalities and the municipalities' own awareness of the need to respond and act on reports, something has happened in a positive direction. This is not to say that we have achieved our goal in relation to this type of case and that no similar cases will arise in the future. It is important when these cases are revealed that there are other legislative frameworks that can come into force and ensure that these children and young people from the authorities can receive assistance, support and compensation, and that they do not find that they are being held up and that they have to fight against a system that has often failed in several areas in the past. The Danish People's Party has recently had both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Justice in consultation on the problems arising from the so-called Slagelse case. It emerged from the consultation that the Minister for Justice is working to find a solution, but I have to say that it did not seem that the Minister was prepared to lift the limitation period in this type of abuse and neglect. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that this is what should happen in order to ensure justice for this group of citizens. The proposal before us today is also, of course, a consequence of the latest information that these cases can be declared obsolete, and so it may end up with carelessness not being able to raise a case. We in the Danish People's Party welcome the debate here today and welcome the fact that the Minister will come up with a solution to the problems that exist with limitation periods today. There has also been a focus on the compensations that can be awarded, or rather the low compensation. We find it obvious that the amount of compensation is being looked at and that a significant change is taking place. We do not want to be determined on certain amounts, but it is obvious that it must be amounts that can help these children and young people on their way to a better life. We are well aware that money cannot heal and the whole lot of wounds that are on body and soul, but there is no doubt that money can help make everyday life and life more manageable. This concerns, among other things: on help and support for psychotherapy, but also on the fact that a replacement can help sweeten life a little. It seems a little like the amounts of compensation that, for example, are being paid. were given to some of the girls in the so-called Slagelse case, were so low that they were actually perceived as a mockery, and this must not be the case. The last part of the proposal concerns the retention of files in children's cases. Here the Danish People's Party believes that it is obvious that the rules that are today, although temporarily suspended, should be changed. It is extremely important that all the material is stored to ensure that there is knowledge and information about what has happened in specific cases, so that it does not end up as a lack of evidence that causes a child's case, for example. abuse and neglect fall. All in all, the Danish People's Party welcomes this proposal and sees it as a step in the right direction. We would like to see further work being done to remove the limitation period and hope that the Minister will be sensitive to the arguments of the parties and involve them in the further work that is going on to change in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180426	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next person to take the platform is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180430	I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, which was unable to be here today. These are the conditions for a small party at Christiansborg when you have to be in many different places. In the main, the proposal relates to three different points. The primary issue is the obsolescence issue. That is the issue of civil liability, I have to stress, in other words, the situation in which the child, who is probably no longer a child, believes that the municipality in question has failed to comply with its supervisory obligations. It is therefore a civil law requirement. So, what are the rules today? I can say that they are so complicated that we should refrain from going into this in greater detail. There is probably an analogy to section 9 of the barring order law, a little analogous to what the municipality stands for in terms of supervision, and, if so, the rule today will result in an obsolescence which expires at the end of the 21st year. I cannot guarantee that this is the correct interpretation. But in any case, the situation of obsolescence is unreasonable today. This has also been mentioned by the previous rapporteur, and we will gladly help to do something about it. The authors propose, in effect, a limitation period running from the 21st year and then in parallel with the limitation period for criminal proceedings, i.e.: 15 years on top of that. That is to say, it expires at the 36th year. I think that is a much more reasonable limitation period than the one that applies today. So in this area the Left can support the proposal. This is also the case in the second area, which concerns compensation for tort. Here too, we have the impression that they are not too high today, to use that expression, and I therefore look forward to having them regulated through the committee work that the Minister has mentioned is running. Finally, what we are talking about is the ban on inadmissibility, that is to say the ban on throwing away the papers. This was just embarrassing beyond boundaries. There is a temporary ban now, and we would like to see this maintained, as in the proposal, as a permanent ban in the future. That is why the Left can support all three elements of the proposal. Two previous speakers, the rapporteurs of the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, have said that the abolition of limitation periods is proposed in full. At least I must warn you about that immediately. That is something that should be the subject of very deep reflection in committees and elsewhere. I am thinking here of the fact that we have had an obsolescence committee which, back in 2008, spent several years working on an obsolescence law and weighing up various considerations. It then resulted in the obsolescence law we have today, which is certainly complex, but thus also considered on every point. It is therefore an obsolescence law for civil claims. What we are talking about here in the Folketing today is a civil demand, and I have to say that if we completely abolish those rules, we will certainly have to take a deep breath and consider what other consequences it has for other civilian demands. Because it has to be said, as I said in my question, that there are various reasons why limitation periods are being applied today. I am not going to go into all of them here, but one of them is also the possibility of adjusting to the fact that the situation has now been clarified. Another is the possibility of warning people, as well as people, not to bring in vain actions, which are actions where they cannot prove anything. I wouldn't want to signal to a 60-year-old that he can make a claim in relation to how the municipality has neglected its supervisory duties when he was 10 years old. For this would most often in fact be untenable in court and would entail only legal costs. So that is certainly something that needs to be carefully considered. But I have taken note of the proposals and then we will have to look at them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180843	Thank you. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180847	I cannot help but be struck by the fact that the rapporteur of the Left says that a hugely prepared piece of work has been done and that legislation has been put in place, which is intricate but sensible. I acknowledge the thorough preparatory work, but I suppose it is ultimately a political decision. After all, it is not a technocracy. Although we have had a thorough examination, it is surely ultimately a political decision where the Community must stand. There I would like to question whether it is sensible for it to be the case that, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. the girls from Slagelse fall for a limitation period. You could ask that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524180930	Maybe I'm the one who made the wrong statement. When I said that it was a sensible and crunchy word, and I did not use the term 'thought-out' in terms of legislation, it was therefore the result of the preparatory work and the preparation of it in the limitation committee which was set up. After all, it is precisely because it has sought to take account of many different situations that can be read in the various paragraphs and because there are some different limitation periods. But of course it is not an indication that it is not possible to completely abolish the limitation periods for these requirements. I just have to say that these are civil cases we are talking about here, and I could well imagine that we would also have to look at a number of other situations in which it was at least as reasonable to have the limitation periods abolished. In any case, it is a rather complicated work that we are moving into, and I hope that it will not happen, that there will be a hoof solution on a particular subject, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181027	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181030	We're going all the way back to the beginning of this century. However, it is a little longer than in 2008. We have to go back a little further until when we first had the debate on Godhavn. It's just to say, I don't know how much hoof solution it is. It's pretty much all the years I've been to Christiansborg that we've been debating this issue. So it is true that it is now that there is a majority in favour of it, and one can then welcome that. But to say that it comes as a thief at night, I think maybe still is stretching it a little far. In the meantime, there has actually been quite a lot of work. It can then be said that we will then reach a conclusion now that is different from it at an earlier time, but it is an expression of the world changing. So do the political majority. I would just like to say that the thing about saying that there is reason in the way it is now connected, I do not think it would be the case if you were sitting in the head of one of the Godhavns boys who, for example, were sitting in the head. hasn't had an apology yet. It's just to give a single example of something where you can say that you didn't take that into account. And it is ultimately a political decision whether you think it is a viable path. But to call it a hoof solution I think maybe still be pulling it a little far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181131	I can say that I heard the speech, but I didn't really understand the question. I also hear the rhetoric about the sad story of the Godhavn boys. But what we are talking about here is regulating limitation periods in civil cases against municipalities, and basically it has nothing to do with an apology to the Godhavns boys.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181152	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181202	The motion for a resolution tabled here by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF and the Radicals requires the government to table a legislative proposal ensuring that the limitation period in cases of child abuse and abuse corresponds to the limitation period in the criminal code for sexual abuse and to set up a committee to consider how to ensure a higher compensation for children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. And last but not least, the proposal must ensure that children's cases are not destroyed but always hidden. It is sad that we have to deal at all with children who are subjected to sexual abuse. It is so insanely difficult to understand how adult people can attack children. I have spent a great deal of time reading cases of child abuse after I was elected, as a social rapporteur, to try to understand how to learn to live with, that a person who has often been trusted and perhaps even loved can violate someone as cruel as it may be, not least when we hear that it may have been going on for years. Although I have met previously offended children, read reports and judgments, I will never understand how much scars it leaves when you have been subjected to childhood abuse. But I understand that they are great, and in the Liberal Alliance we understand the importance of ensuring here in the Folketing the very best framework for dealing with the trauma when an abuse in childhood has taken place, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports this proposal. We support hiding the children's cases so that you can always go back and see the rhetoric. We support considering how to find a more reasonable compensation, even if no amount can ever compensate for an abuse, and we support extending the limitation period, although we do not think it is ambitious enough. Because in the Liberal Alliance, we also believe that the limitation period must be completely removed. It is difficult to know when a previously violated child is ready to sue authorities that have failed. It may be that the trauma doesn't show up until you have children of your own, and it may actually be that it doesn't show up until your children arrive at the age when the abuse began for you. If you have children at the age of 32 and the abuse of yourself began when you were 8 years old, you can be 40 years old before you are ready to take that fight and before you are ready to process the trauma, and then you have to have the opportunity to do so and the opportunity to have a responsibility. Because in the whole discussion about Godhavnsboys it is all about placing that responsibility, which is why it was also the position of the Liberal Alliance, when they talked about the apology to Godhavnsboys, that we would much rather go this way. We will go the way to remove the limitation period so that these men can go to court and place responsibility, because it is through the one we believe that responsibility must be placed. So in the Liberal Alliance, we can support this proposal because we believe that there are good elements in it, but we are also ready to go on an equal footing with the Social Democratic Party and with the Danish People's Party to go further and remove the limitation period altogether.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181517	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181526	Thank you. First of all, we must do everything in our power to prevent these deeply tragic cases from taking place at all. Fortunately, this is being worked on in other contexts here in the Folketing. This resolution deals with how we, as a society, behave when the unforgivable happens and the community fails. In this case, these are children who, because of their own parents' inability to provide adequate care, are left in the care of society, and then be abandoned once again. The most central issue today is whether we should give those people better opportunities later in life to put responsibility for failures and get a fair compensation. Here, the alternative, together with the other proposers, believes that the limitation period for failure by public authorities in cases of child abuse and abuse must, above all, meet the best interests of the children placed. As stated in this resolution, we believe that it would be a clear improvement if the limitation period for the failure of public authorities in cases of child abuse and abuse were to correspond to the limitation period for sexual abuse. We are pleased and proud to be involved in making this proposal, but it is no secret that the alternative would like the limitation period for this type of case to be completely abolished. I have heard opponents of this argue that it may be too difficult to settle a case after many years after it has taken place, where the main characters may have passed away and the details of the case may be difficult to recreate. I have also heard arguments that it is perhaps too hard for an adult victim who has been abandoned in childhood to get the case up again. But this is where I would like to ask: what about personal freedom? Should it not be people themselves who decide whether or not to take up their case again? Should it be difficult, and politicians' concern that it might be a sin for them, to prevent people from choosing for themselves whether to end their past and try to clarify responsibility and get a fair compensation and perhaps close a very unhappy chapter of their lives? No, the alternative means. The amount of compensation to be paid by the victims must also be targeted so that they are better suited to their purpose. The compensation must not only be symbolic, but must create a real economic space to enable the individual to cope better with the violent experiences. Finally, the proposal is also about the permanentisation of the stoppage for the shredder of children's cases, and this also supports the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181811	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker in line is Mr. Johannes Lebech as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524181821	At regular intervals, cases come up in the media about people who have been subjected to abuse as children, where authorities have been responsible for the children concerned. There has been talk of the Greenlandic children who were sent to Denmark, people who have been in mental care, and there are many more groups who have suffered both legal and illegal treatment during the time. These are some principles that have been discussed here in the Folketing for many years, and the result is that one cannot apologize for past atrocities because there were some other standards at that time. Various governments have also rejected it on the same grounds. • Most recently, both the present and the previous governments have rejected such a proposal. The Godhavn boys were treated illegally, also with the rules of that time, and therefore it is wise that the boys from Godhavn have gone to the courts to get the compensation, which then confirms that there has been an atrocity, and thus it can hopefully be seen as an excuse and perhaps become a sort of end in the individual people's experience of the wrong they have been subjected to. The Board of Appeal has given them the right to appeal against the judgment of the City Court. That's the kind of thing we have the courts for. We do not think that the Folketing is the appropriate forum for such decisions. That is also the legal position we have today and a broad majority in the Folketing has now indicated that they will change the limitation periods in such cases against the public. This is clearly supported by the Radical Left. In order for us to do so, it is also a kind of recognition that it may be some sort of excuse within the framework of the rule of law. A limitation period is proposed which corresponds to the limitation period in the criminal code for sexual abuse, but we are also, like several other parties, willing to go all the way and delete the limitation period completely, as many have advocated. We would also like to see victim compensation for child abuse lifted and, finally, we are also prepared to make the temporary suspension of shredding permanent. It is important that the individual can have his or her own story with him. In other words, we also support B 101 and are prepared, in committee, to move forward with the question of a complete deletion of the limitation period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524182047	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524182055	Actually, I think it's a pretty big day today. It is an entire Parliament which supports extending the limitation period, and there are voices around which indicate willingness to remove it completely. It can hardly be better. I am also pleased, and I would like to acknowledge this, that the government supports the resolution in all its details. The SF has helped to put forward this proposal for an extension of the limitation period in cases of failure by the authorities in cases of abuse against children and young people. It is a serious matter when children and young people who are already at risk are even abandoned by the authorities responsible for protecting them, and it is patently unfair that such cases fall due to obsolescence, when we know that many of those who have suffered those failures will only be able to raise the matter after several years. Today, the general limitation period of three years applies, and that is far too little, and I am pleased that we agree on it. It is an entirely natural reaction of people who are subjected to abuse that, in order to survive in it and protect themselves, they hide away the difficult feelings and therefore may take a long time to face what they have been subjected to. In addition, when it comes to the abuse being committed by those to whom it is most strongly linked, most dependent and who are the ones to care for them, many live with ambivalent shame and doubts as to whether they were responsible for it themselves. It is therefore crucial that some people take responsibility for the abuses so that they can move forward in their lives. It should be done immediately, but for many it takes years for them to realize that what happened was wrong. It can, for example, be done. treatment or when they have children of their own. In my opinion and in the SF's view, it should never be the time to stand in the way of responsibility. We have heard how much it means for the boys from Godhavn to get an apology, and the girls from Slagelse have also tried to get someone to take responsibility in their case. But the Children's Terms have several cases of public failure, but many of the cases will lapse with the limitation period we have today. We would like to see a step forward and the limitation period removed, but we have helped to put forward this proposal at a time when we were not even sure that we could get a majority for it, but with a limitation period corresponding to the limitation period laid down in the criminal code on sexual abuse, we have certainly taken a step forward. However, I have been able to listen to the fact that it is very likely that we can obtain a majority in order to go further than that, and we in the SF will be prepared to agree on that. We have also proposed that a committee should be set up to look at how to ensure higher compensation for victims in criminal proceedings where children have been subjected to sexual abuse. The compensation given today is often not even sufficient to cover the costs incurred by victims in the treatment of trauma, helping to move forward and the social consequences of the abuses. Of course, money can never make up for the failures that have taken place, but we believe that the amount of compensation should be such that it can actually help to enable them to move forward psychologically and socially in relation to the trauma caused by the attacks. Finally, we have proposed that the regime that was put in place under the previous government, which suspended the destruction of children's cases, should be made permanent and, today, when record keeping takes place electronically, there is no reason why the important documentation should disappear. If the limitation period is extended, it must also be possible to retrieve the necessary information, and I can now hear the government support that too. So it's a happy day, and it's nice that you can put forward proposals in this Parliament hall, which in fact also receive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524182523	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524182532	Thank you. Yes, there had been a slight misunderstanding, I am sorry. Although the rapporteur of the Left has revealed something about where we stand, I would nevertheless like to say a few words. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 101 is about providing better opportunities for compensation for children who have been subjected to failure and abuse. In concrete terms, the possibility of compensation must be improved by changing the limitation period and examining the possibility of granting higher compensation and making the temporary suspension of the shreddering of children's cases permanent. The Conservative People's Party is in favour of all three ideas in the resolution. We certainly believe that there is a need for the rules on obsolescence in the event of failure and abuse of children to be revised. We saw a clear example of this in the case from Slagelse Municipality. Children who are victims of failure or abuse are in a very vulnerable situation, and for a great many of them the courage will come to raise a possible case only several years after the abuse actually took place. And shouldn't those children be given the opportunity to get the court's word that they were let down? Of course they do. We support a change in the limitation period so that the citizens concerned can move forward. That is by far the most important consideration for me in such a situation. For the citizens affected it can mean a great deal in their lives and their struggle to move on in life. It should not be limited by a general limitation period. In fact, I do not believe that the amount of compensation is essential for so many victims. It is mostly about placing responsibility and getting the court's word for what is right and wrong. Nevertheless, we are, of course, very keen to see whether compensation is generally reasonable. We look from time to time at compensations which may seem ridiculously low and we are quite prepared that it may make sense to make adjustments. In addition, I also believe that it is reasonable to stop barring child cases, as it could potentially restrict those concerned in bringing a claim for damages later on. I shall conclude by commending the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate and saying that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524182741	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524182751	I simply believe that this is the first time that I have been able to stand on the floor as rapporteur for a motion for a resolution which the whole of the Folketing actually supports. As Mrs Trine Torp of the SF just said to me: when the four parties sat down and made this proposal many months ago, I do not think we had thought it would happen. There is something big about that in itself. But it is not least great for many of the children who hopefully get the opportunity to try their cases and find out if there is a responsibility to be placed. I think what we're doing right now is really important. And I think we should also remember that the reason why there is this support for this proposal is probably that there are some former children, now adults, who have stood up and told their story and told how important it is to them that they have the opportunity to get redress and have a responsibility for the failures and abuses that were committed against them. There are three proposals, as several have also pointed out, which we have tabled in the Enhedslisten together with the SF, the Alternative and the Radical Left. One is about the limitation period in claims, i.e. to have it extended. It becomes really, really important because being able to have some economy to move on can mean a lot. It can have major consequences for one's working life, for one's mental well-being, for one's life, for one's failure in childhood. Most importantly, however, as several people have also pointed out, it is to have redress and to have responsibility. It's not about money. It is about respect: getting rid of some of the guilt and shame that unfortunately also affects a great many people who have been subjected to the abuses or failures that we are talking about. At the same time, there are a great many cases which the Children's Terms are helping to lead, which may never have had the opportunity to be tried if we from the Folketing do nothing about the limitation period. So what's happening right now is really important to a lot of people. That is, in principle, true. It will mean something to people in a positive way. Then, of course, there are the other two important elements of the proposal, namely the possibility of considering the amount of compensation. It is also important that you really have something to stand on when you have to move on. And the third proposal is therefore a permanent stop to the shredring of children's cases, which has meant that people who would like to find out what has happened in their cases have not had that opportunity. So there are also some very specific people behind the adoption of the proposal which has come forward and explained their needs and which has fought to preserve other children's cases. Overall, this will mean better legal certainty for those children who, unfortunately, have become and may be abandoned in the future in one way or another. It's really important. On behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I should like to say that we will vote on the proposal so that we are sure that it will be adopted and implemented. Of course, we would also like to go into the committee procedure that it suggests there is a need for. On my own behalf, i.e. on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I would also like to say that we are also in favour of abolishing the limitation period completely in these civil cases. And then it looks like we're going to count to 90 in a good way one more time. But we have to do that in committee. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, I can also say that should we succeed in completely removing the limitation period, so that not least some specific people, such as myself, are able to do so. The Godhavn boys will have the opportunity to try their case, so it would be almost the best that could happen today and for many days to come. So thank you all very much for the good debate and support. I look forward to the committee reading. It looks like we have a lot we can achieve yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183237	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183253	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183319	The motion for a resolution instructs the government to ensure that Denmark does not participate in the capture and extradition of Edward Snowden or otherwise assist or support the US authorities in their attempts to arrest him. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution. It is widely known that the United States wants Edward Snowden extradited for prosecution for a number of serious crimes. It is also widely known that Snowden is staying in Russia. And it is rather unclear what exactly the authors of the motion do not want the Danish side to do in order to help the Americans in the capture and extradition of Snowden, since the comments on the proposal most of all have the character of a tribute to the person concerned. Whether it is a landing permit, a transit permit or a extradition decision, these are specific cases which must be dealt with in accordance with the law. Parliament has therefore already dealt once with how such matters should be dealt with, and it is not in the Parliamentary Chamber. I should like to say something more about landing permits, because, as you know, this is the area of the Minister for Transport and Building. The proposers call Snowden one of the most important defenders of fundamental democratic rights today. I do not share that view, on the contrary. Nevertheless, in any event, it can be understood that the proposal provides for a politically motivated prior decision on a specific extradition case. I believe that this is a matter of legal certainty and is not in keeping with the general principles of democratic rule of law. There's equality before the law, even for Edward Snowden, if that ever happens. Denmark cooperates with many countries, including Denmark. on the investigation and prosecution of offences. This is absolutely crucial in a modern world of cross-border crime. If a person employed in the Danish intelligence service leaked confidential information that could harm Danish interests, we would also want the person concerned to be prosecuted in Denmark. The proposers shall indicate, inter alia: to justify the proposal that there is reason to be concerned about Edward Snowden's possibility of a fair trial in America. I have to say that the United States is a democratic constitutional state. I have no reason to doubt that the United States will ensure that Edward Snowden will have a fair trial if he returns. It would be questionable if Denmark, on the basis of political sympathies, were to prevent another rule of law from prosecuting a person who has committed offences on the territory of the State. Against this background, as I said, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183603	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is one brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183611	Thank you, Minister. I would really like to ask whether Denmark has received a guarantee from the United States that Snowden will have a public trial.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183625	I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183633	What I think is interesting in relation to whether Denmark will decide to hand Snowden over is whether we are sure that he will have a public and fair trial or whether it will be too closed. Is that something the Minister of Justice also cares about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183649	Such extradition will have to take place under the law, and that is all there is to it. And it will be subject to complaint and so on. I'm not the one who has to decide. It must be dealt with in accordance with the law, and that is why I do not understand the political discrimination that some in this Chamber want to give to the person concerned, apparently even on the basis of a political position. It is crucial that the law is equal for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183714	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183719	I really think the Minister has a point in what he says. I don't know if you can call it special treatment, but it's about an individual. But then let me ask you another way: if the Minister does not think that when it comes to the countries with which we have extradition agreements, we must still make sure that, for example, there is still some way to go. Is the death penalty not imposed, that there is a fair trial and a number of other principles that we normally salute?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183752	However, these are the considerations which must be taken into account in the specific case, which will then be assessed individually. I am not the one who has to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183800	There are no more questions. We thank the Minister for Justice. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183808	With the proposal here, the proposers want the Danish Parliament to instruct the government in this parliamentary year to ensure that Denmark does not participate in the capture and extradition of the American so-called whistleblower Edward Snowden or otherwise assist or support the US authorities in their attempts to arrest Snowden. This is not the first time we have discussed the person in question here in the Folketing. I believe that the last time was about actually offering asylum, even if the person concerned had not applied for asylum. It was while we were in government, and we did not support the proposal, not least because, as I said, the citizen in question had not applied for asylum, and because asylum applications are a matter for the immigration authorities and not a matter for the Folketing, which is dealt with here in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is why it is no surprise to the authors of the motion that we cannot support the proposal here either. If Denmark is requested for assistance by an ally, Danish authorities must be able to act on the basis of the information provided, with the expectation that conventions on prisoners will be complied with. The fact that we in the Folketing have to take a position on named persons and that we must never take part in a prosecution or capture of that person is, in my opinion, a very great injustice. One can imagine, for example, that people who later commit very violent crimes, terrorist attacks or other acts can be protected, but the Danish authorities cannot act in relation to them because the Danish Parliament has decided that the person concerned is protected and must not be persecuted by Danish authorities. This practice simply does not belong in a community governed by the law. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524183959	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184012	Thank you. The proposal is that Denmark does not participate in the capture and extradition of the American whistleblower Edward Snowden. I think it is a very strange proposal to have to deal with, especially in this Chamber. In the Danish People's Party we have the view that the United States is a close ally of Denmark, it is a rule of law, it is a democracy, it is a good friend of Denmark, if you can say so in that way, and therefore of course Denmark must also extradite people for prosecution in the United States, just as Denmark must of course assist the Americans if the situation should arise, to catch American citizens who in the United States may be a desire to be prosecuted. It's perfectly logical. What would happen if the Americans, for example, were to do so? were denying us the same thing, i.e. if we were missing a Danish citizen that the Americans happened to come by? Then, of course, we also wanted them to go to Denmark and be prosecuted here. I can therefore say very clearly that we are rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184128	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184139	I must say that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, which could not be here today. They are a small party that has many to-dos at Christiansborg. The proposal we are discussing here today is the culmination of a number of committee questions to both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Transport, as a result of the fact that an American aircraft back in 2013 was allowed to interstate in Copenhagen, supposedly with the aim of bringing Snowden to the United States if the Americans could have him extradited from Russia. The authors justify the importance of today's motion for a resolution by saying that Snowden is one of the most important defenders of democratic rights today, and that is why the government should ensure that Denmark does not participate in the capture and extradition of the American whistleblower. In concrete terms, how to participate in the capture and/or extradition of Snowden, the proposal does not really mention anything. However, it is my best conviction that we are dealing here with a constitutionally problematic proposal in relation to the division of power. As I read the proposal, it is intended that the government, among other things, should: to ensure that Snowden is not extradited for prosecution. But it is not Parliament that decides what should happen in the situation where Snowden happens to appear in Denmark. Should Denmark hypothetically become the country of residence for Snowden for a period of time, then the government can actually do nothing. It is up to the courts to assess whether Snowden fulfils the conditions for extradition in the extradition law for prosecution in the United States. The same is true if Denmark has information that can lead to his capture. Nor does it fall within the government's discretion to decide what should happen to this kind of information. It is a concrete legal assessment in relation to the courts. Having said that, I think that the resolution itself has a broad and very vague wording on what it means not to participate in the capture of Snowden. I can say that the Left regards the Americans as friends of Denmark, and we also regard it as a community of law, and if the Americans want Snowden to be extradited, in the case he was in Denmark, then it is clear that it is simply up to the courts to find out whether the conditions of the extradition law are met. And to take the sting off the question that has been asked in the past, it is precisely in Article 6 (6) of the extradition law. 2. extradition cannot take place if there is a danger of being extradited and subjected to torture or other degrading treatment. The Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184436	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184447	When we discussed the Enhedslisten's proposal to grant a residence permit to whistleblower Edward Snowden in 2014, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur made it clear that Snowden has raised a crucial debate about the right to privacy and limitation of state surveillance that has resonated in large parts of the world. It has been a necessary debate about how far the state can and should extend into the private sphere of people. The rapporteur also stressed that we in the Liberal Alliance certainly do not like states overtaking their role and resorting to threats of terror or other security issues in order to develop general monitoring of citizens. It leads to a poorer society when we do not know when the state is listening. However, when we were unable to support Enhedslisten's proposal at the time, this was due to the fact that it was not proposed to assess Snowden according to the same principles as other citizens seeking a residence permit in Denmark, and that the proposed approach on crucial points would challenge the otherwise appropriate judicial cooperation between the United States and Denmark. Here, the approach is measured by various legitimate considerations. We are not revolutionising our relations with the United States and are watching over the agreements that have been reached. We do not break with the way in which we deal with residence permits and thereby ensure equality before the law. We recognise the importance of the debate on monitoring that Snowden's revelations have given rise to, and we say quite pragmatic and low-practical that we do not want to participate in the hunt for the whistleblower. This is an approach that the Liberal Alliance can support. In fact, we believe that it is reasonable to leave the United States on its own feet in this matter. They have themselves placed themselves in the current situation, and they have themselves chosen to deal with the matter in a way that has led to great conflict. In fact, there's only one challenge to this proposal, and that's that its focus may be too narrow. There's been whistleblowers before Edward Snowden, and we'll definitely see new ones show up. The question is whether our handling of these matters should not be the same. Against this background, we must finally call for the proposers to try to broaden the scope of the proposal before the second reading, so that the focus will be on principle and not just concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184711	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524184724	Thank you. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution aims to oblige the government to ensure that Denmark does not participate in the capture and extradition of the whistleblower Edward Snowden or otherwise assist or support the United States in their attempt to arrest him. The proposal must include, inter alia: is seen in the light of the fact that in 2013 Denmark had an American CIA aircraft land and hold in Kastrup, just around when Snowden fled to Russia. The purpose of the aircraft was supposedly to have Snowden handed over. In the alternative, we fully agree with the purpose of the motion for a resolution. The aim is to ensure that Denmark protects Edward Snowden as much as possible. Snowden has exposed illegal mass surveillance by the U.S. NSA, to an extent that few of us had had enough imagination to imagine. It is absolutely essential for democracy that we know it when illegal acts are committed, even when it is a state institution that commits illegal acts, perhaps especially when it is the state that does so, because it is they that the people have entrusted power, and it requires accountability, honesty and transparency, not illegal and secret mass surveillance, which the people have never approved or accepted. That is why Snowden, in our optics, is a person who has put everything at risk and who has undoubtedly fought the cause of democracy. Denmark should be a country that protects Snowden and people like him from unfair treatment. From this perspective, we find the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution deeply sympathetic. However, as the proposal is now in its present form, we find it difficult to support it. As I said, we have a lot of sympathy for the idea and intention behind the proposal, but we have a problem with making a special law. And, as the motion for a resolution suggests, there is a risk that the courts will be deprived of the opportunity to try the case. We believe that this is a violation of the division of power, which was originally introduced by Montesquieu, and which has provided a framework for the basic forms of democratic governance today, which we believe it is very important to safeguard. We also believe it is important that a law should be general and cover all persons who take a particular action or act. In its present form, in the eyes of the lawyer, the motion for a resolution could have the unintended consequence of, for example: in the future, to protect possible other offences. So what we are going to propose in this context is that we take advantage of the opportunity, with the positive expressions that have already been here from the platform, to try to raise the bar for what we would like to do when there are whistleblowers in the future, including, of course, Edward Snowden. That is why, in the alternative, we will be proposing an amendment to the committee procedure, and it might sound like this: the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to ensure that whistleblowers, freedom of expression and democracy defenders and similar persons who have reported possible illegal management, illegal activities, gross maladministration, which they have become aware of through their activities, are not extradited to another state until they have secured their right to a complete, publicly available and fair trial, including that any conditions of service are carried out under decent conditions. Ensuring these things must be formal and, for example, in line with all the aspects contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. That is what we are going to try to work on in committee because, as I said, we think it is a really, really sympathetic proposal. We clearly support this objective, and we would very much like to continue working on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524185108	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524185115	Thank you. After all, this is not a political issue, but a legal issue, at least if you think that Denmark should act as a constitutional state. The fact that we are a state governed by the rule of law means that it is not us in the Folketing who take a position on specific extradition cases, but the courts. On the other hand, they take their decisions on the basis of the rules that we in the Danish Parliament have adopted on, yes, specifically international legal aid, including the extradition of citizens for prosecution in other countries. So if we were to get into the specific situation that Edward Snowden or, for that matter, another whistleblower came into Danish custody and the United States asked for him to be extradited, it would be the Danish courts who would have to decide on the extradition request in accordance with the applicable extradition rules. It would therefore also be they, i.e. the courts, who would assess the potential risk that Snowden would not be given a fair trial or whether there was a risk that he would be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment in the United States. On the other hand, it would not be for the Folketing to make that assessment. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524185224	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I will pass on the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524185239	Snowden's not a sir. Anyone. We can also see this from the fact that we have often dealt with cases of lex Snowden cases here in the Danish Parliament. This may seem a little unusual, of course, but it is also because he has become a symbol of one of the major global challenges that we have and which we also have at home: the surveillance society that is spreading. One thing is what is decided democratically, for example. Here in the Folketing, another thing is that he has revealed the global illegal mass surveillance of citizens around the world, including Danish citizens. We can't thank him and people like him enough for that. That is why the SF would very much like to support this motion for a resolution, but we have some reservations about what several rapporteurs have also mentioned and which I think Mrs Josephine Fock described very well, namely that we would like to make legislation that has a general value and that can be used by whistleblowers, who most likely also come after Snowden, and of which we have already seen some. It is a huge freedom project and we should thank those who risk so much to bring this information to light. I think it was the Liberal Alliance rapporteur who said that the only people who have put themselves in this situation are the United States itself, and they have done so with illegal mass surveillance. I find it shameful to hear a Danish Minister of Justice almost say that the man is a common criminal when in the very same country from which he is from, the United States, it has led to numerous hearings, self-examination, scrutiny, congress hearings, the resignation of politicians, etc. I find that shameful. This is one of the biggest global problems we face. And the only people who have done something wrong in this case are the American authorities and people who have put this into effect. That is why we in the SF would very much like to support the intention of this motion for a resolution, namely to say that, of course, we are giving those who are putting so much at risk, and that is what we are getting legally, and so on, the protection that is needed. We cannot obtain any guarantee as to how Snowden will be treated in the United States, even from the Danish Minister of Justice. There have been plenty of things in this discussion, most recently information about the plane that was held in Kastrup, where we really only got because the Minister of Justice talked over or at least came to give wrong information. It wasn't on purpose that we got the truth about that plane. So SF would really like to give support to the intention of the proposal, by generalising it and doing it more broadly, so that we do not get caught up in the division of power, by supporting the intention of the amendment that the alternative has tabled. Now, of course, we have to look at it in writing, but I am sure that we can find each other in a very good piece of legislation, which encapsulates the intention of Enhedslisten's proposal and which makes it wide-ranging, so that it also benefits future whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524185616	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524185633	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments, not least those that were positive; they are therefore the best. Edward Snowden's revelations have been insanely important. A number of speakers have already pointed this out. Unfortunately, some have also tried to neglect it. What was revealed was illegal surveillance of American citizens, of European citizens, of Heads of State, of NGOs, of embassies. In other words, there was not a tiny error, but a systematic breach of privacy. It was even monitoring EU offices. These were really important revelations. This led to a very important debate. For Denmark, it was also a revelation of monitoring COP15, which was the major climate summit held in Copenhagen, and a tapping of fiber cables on Danish soil and thus monitoring the traffic that went in and out of Denmark. In other words, there is no doubt about this, as can be seen from the global debate that Edward Snowden created that his revelations were really, really important. That in this case he was whistleblower and risked himself was insanely important for the debate we have been having for years now about citizens' rights to privacy, including when it comes to our online activity and about the states that say they are doing so to take care of citizens. The very specific reason, as the Minister of Justice also points out, is that, after hard work and trouble, and probably not entirely with the good will of the Minister for Justice, to put it mildly, we have revealed that Denmark has actually provided help, thus helping the Americans to try to catch Edward Snowden. This is not simply a matter of extradition; on the contrary. It is a question of Denmark trying by other means to help the Americans catch Edward Snowden so that he could come to the United States. So what's the problem with that? Firstly, it has happened in secret and that the Danish Parliament has had to rely on the errors of the Minister for Justice in order to get such an important piece of information rather than to be able to decide whether it was something we wanted, is the reason for this proposal on our part today. We want a debate on whether Denmark should assist states that would like to prosecute a whistleblower like Edward Snowden. At the same time, there are indications that what we in Denmark see as a fair trial is not what Edward Snowden will be faced with. He will most likely be charged with what is called the Eespionage Act of 1917, and it may lead to a trial behind closed doors. To put it mildly, this is contrary to fundamental principles of the rule of law. It could give life without parole. And we are in a situation where American officials have almost already spoken out on the issue of guilt by calling him a traitor. Denmark has helped. It is therefore not a question of us now proposing a specific extradition case, as has been wrongly said here from the platform. We are trying to put an end to Denmark's making available all sorts of other means to help the Americans catch Edward Snowden. We think it is wrong to do so, and we think it is undemocratic, that decisions with such far-reaching significance and so fundamental importance can be taken behind closed doors in the ministries without the Folketing having an opportunity to take a position on it and without the Folketing having an opportunity to put an end to it in other ways than this one. That is why, of course, we are also very sensitive to the comments that have come to formulate this in general. There is no doubt about that would be much, much better. So we would like to take part in a discussion in committee on this. I would like to stress that, of course, we have not taken a position on a specific extradition case, but are trying to take a position on all the other things that the Danish state has put forward, perhaps still making that available to us, nor can we get an answer to the question or make it available in the future in the attempt to capture Edward Snowden. Denmark must stand on the side of the whistleblowers. Denmark has to side with the private sector in this matter. We hope that at some point we can find majority support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190218	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190233	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190306	The purpose of the draft law is to amend the revision clause relating to Article 786 (1) of the Code of Procedure. 4. This is the paragraph that has been introduced to ensure that information on telecommunications traffic is available when the police need it in a specific investigation or prosecution of crime. The Socialist position is clear. When criminals are increasingly planning to carry out their crime online, the police must also have the tools and resources to follow. We are particularly concerned about the terrorist challenge. If we know that radicalisation and planning of terrorist attacks are going on the Internet, then it will require that our authorities are also on the Internet. When we discuss logging rules, it always means a balance between legal certainty on the one hand and security for citizens on the other, no doubt about it. However, we cannot escape the fact that tools for preventing and solving crime on the Internet are crucial. We note that the Minister of Justice wishes to postpone the revision of the logging rules until the parliamentary year 2016-17. We would have liked to have seen them dealt with already now. The police need new tools in this area, but we support the proposal with the addition that we are in a serious situation where the authorities should have the necessary tools and resources to solve and also prevent crime on the Internet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190442	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190449	I very much agree with the comments made by the previous speaker. After all, the proposal here is simply about what is popularly called session logging, and it is the revision of the logging rules that is wanted to be postponed. There is no doubt that we would very much have liked to have taken this whole discussion on this side of the summer holiday. We were very sceptical and also incredibly disappointed when the government announced that it intended to postpone this. This was something we would have liked to have dealt with now, because it is our impression that it is of the utmost importance in order to combat organised crime and terrorism. That is why, of course, we are also badly disappointed and sceptical about the fact that we must now wait. If we support the proposal, it is because there is no way around it that circumstances force us to wait for the situation. We will. I can also say that we are looking forward to entering this debate after the summer break. We think it is very important and we wholeheartedly support the fact that we have the opportunity to combat crime and terrorism online, and it is our impression that session logging will be able to contribute to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190602	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no brief comments, so we will take the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190611	Thank you. Session logging I know perfectly well seems like a red cloth on the face of many of those present in the Assembly Hall. However, this does not alter the fact that the Left believes that session logging is necessary in order for the police to continue to have the investigative capabilities required. And it was also against this background that the Minister of Justice started work on new rules for session logging this spring. Everything has its price, so does this case, and I think the Minister deserves praise for having examined the price before we started. And, as you know, it was 1 billion. kr., which an external consultant assessed would be the cost of introducing the new rules on session logging, at least in the form that the police wanted them. The brakes were pulled, and apparently there are now negotiations between officials, the police and the telecommunications industry to find a cheaper solution, which may include less information than in the previous proposal. However, existing legislation requires a revision of the logging rules, and we just cannot do that if we are to follow this procedure. Therefore, the revision of the logging rules is postponed, according to the proposal. The Left can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190737	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments, so we will take the next rapporteur. This is Mrs. Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524190747	The first time Parliament postponed the revision of the logging rules was back in 2006, i.e. 10 years ago. It's been 10 years since this was supposed to have been revised. First there was too little experience, then we waited for the European Union to be ready with a regulation shortly, then the European Court of Justice overruled the whole construction of a violation of fundamental rights, and then we waited for the National Police, but their wishes were obviously too expensive or useless. We do not know, because we must not see it and now it is about dialogue with the telecommunications providers. All honour and respect for a desire for dialogue with the telecommunications service providers of the Ministry of Justice, I think they have wanted that for many years and could not get started. What I am trying to say with my long introduction is that it is embarrassing how we can continue to postpone a revision with changing explanations. It's obviously because you don't really know what to do. Previously, I think it was 4-5 years ago, we couldn't get out of the Justice Department at all what experience there was with the session logging, that is, the part of the logging that is about Internet activity. Only with the help of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten got a majority outside the previous government forced some openness through so that we could take a position on a qualified basis. And what turned out at the time was that session logging had not been used once, in a single case. Those parties which at that time were very interested in openness, or at least some of those parties, have had a rather solid place on the taboos, and perhaps that is no longer so important in terms of freedoms. It appears in the secrecy that is around the process. Well, we must not see the proposal that has been debated in the Ministry and that has been discarded. We must not subject the critical eye to whether it has effect or not. Although the Minister of Justice himself has stated in public that it works so well, no one else can check it out. And we must not have a review now. I think that what is most important is that we start talking about what a review should involve or what should precede a review. We need to have a public debate with a number of different views, not just on the part of the National Police and on the part of the telecommunications service providers, which are the only two parties mentioned in the comments to this bill that you want dialogue with only the National Police and the telecommunications service providers, that is to say only the consideration of investigative powers and costs for business, but not the involvement of some human rights organisations or others who would have an eye on privacy. Of course, we must also have them involved. Then we must have critical eyes on it from those who are independent of the state and who can actually assess it from another side. We need to have experience, statistics, so that we can balance the proportionality of expenditure and interference in privacy with the effect. That must be the least so that, overall, we can strike a balance for and against and, above all, a balance between security considerations, on the one hand, and legal certainty and freedoms, on the other. I think that is the most important thing. That is why my question to the Minister for Justice, to which I hope the Minister of Justice would like to reply when he is going to speak later, is whether the government intends to facilitate a proper open debate on logging, teleloging, mast information, session logging, or whether it intends to present a solution at a time that has already been applauded behind closed doors. If the latter is the case, it would be nice to know so that we can try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191228	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191248	Here again we have another amendment to the revision clause. There is nothing new about that in itself, and there is nothing new about the fact that we in the Liberal Alliance are shouting guard in arms. We are very concerned about the pressure being put on us to turn up the monitoring and registrations. In similar cases, therefore, we have the habit of voting 'no' at third readings. Today, however, I would like to open a door slightly on the pin for another position. We can see that the Minister is showing some sensitivity to one of the concerns we have continually raised. In concrete terms, it is now apparent that dialogue with suppliers will continue so that unnecessary financial burdens are not imposed on them. That is a good thing, but it does not quite bring us to the end. If we are to make enough of the period leading up to the planned revision of the logging rules in the parliamentary year 2016-17, there are other legitimate reasons that need to be considered. I would like to highlight two specific examples which are also reflected in the consultation responses that we have received. First, the IT Police Association drew our attention to the fact that on 12 April 2016 there was an oral debate in Cases C-203/15 and C-698/15 before the European Court of Justice on the national logging legislation in Sweden and the United Kingdom respectively. The final judgment, which could potentially have a significant impact on the national logging rules in all EU countries, is expected by the end of 2016. A period of report and dialogue should therefore include conclusions and assessments from the forthcoming judgment. Secondly, we are bound by the Institute for Human Rights's hearing response. They wish to continue to evaluate the proportionality and necessity of the lodgement obligation and propose, with a view to promoting the human rights of individuals, that, in the context of the forthcoming revision of Article 786 (3) of the Code of Procedure. 4, an evaluation and an analysis of the compliance of the logging rules with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights shall be carried out. The evaluation should include: assess the possibility of strengthening legal certainty guarantees, including ensuring that logging is carried out to the minimum possible extent and for the shortest possible time. My message today is that, in the further work on this bill, we are putting these considerations in line with the financial burdens of the providers. If it succeeds, the proposal has, to a much greater extent than in the past, the right balance between security and affected citizens and businesses and, in those words, the Liberal Alliance looks forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191532	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191547	Thank you. Today we are discussing Bill No. L 183 on the Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Law on Competition and Consumer Relations in the Telecommunications Market, the Law on Arms, the Extradition Act and the Law on the Extradition of Violators to Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. The relevant section of the Code of Procedure was introduced to ensure that information on telecommunications traffic is available when the police need it in a specific investigation or prosecution. It is therefore for telecommunications networks or telecommunications services providers to register and store information on telecommunications traffic for a period of one year for the purpose of investigating and prosecuting criminal offences. It should not be a secret that the alternative is of course questionable about a return to a comprehensive logging obligation, which is why it is important to evaluate in depth the proportionality of the proposal and the guarantees of legal certainty. The alternative may, of course, be positive about postponing this work, but we, like the previous speaker, also take note of the fact that the Institute for Human Rights says that it is really important that in the forthcoming revision of § 786 (6) of the Code of Procedure. An evaluation and analysis of the compliance of logging rules with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights shall be carried out. And the evaluation should include: assess the possibility of strengthening legal certainty guarantees, thus ensuring that logging is carried out to the minimum possible extent and for the shortest possible time. In addition, we, like the previous speaker, are also sensitive to the hearing from the IT-Politics Association, which says that a thorough evaluation report is very important and will subsequently be sent in public consultation. It will be useful information for the Folketing if or when the Danish logging rules need to be revised and no proper evaluation of the experience with the existing logging rules, including the session logging applied between 2007 and 2014. So in view of whether we can support this proposal, we would like to see further work done on this in committee and to ensure that these things are taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191807	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments here either, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191813	However, we can agree with the position announced by both the Alternative, Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance from up here, in other words that we are not so negative about postponing the revision, but are concerned that it is not only the consideration of the telecommunications providers' economy, but also the consideration of legal certainty and proportionality that will be taken into account in the new rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191848	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe for a brief and precise speech by the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524191904	There is, of course, at the end of the day a touching consensus here in the Parliamentary Assembly. From the SF's point of view, as has been said by so many parties in the past, on the one hand, it is not going to go on postponing the review when, on the other hand, there are some things that should be included in it. That is why I would like to join the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Something we really want from the SF to see when the law is being revised is precisely this: it includes both stakeholders from organisations dealing with legal certainty and stakeholders who have it as an independent point of interest. The next proposal in this Chamber is about the fact that the draft law must be screened not only in relation to administrative costs and financial costs, etc., but also in relation to legal certainty. It should therefore be reasonably obvious, I think, that the things we decide in here are screened in relation to legal certainty. Because when you look at page 5 of this proposal and see that it has no administrative implications for citizens and it has practically no consequences in any respect, it is something that pops me into the eye, and that is that this is one of the things we have discussed most over the last many years in the field of justice, and that is something we need to get really, really, really well clarified. That is why it is a rather strange proposal to give its support to, but the proposal I heard from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we can at least agree with the SF, so that we really extend the circle of organisations and people to be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192106	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There were no brief comments here either. Then we have a communication of a special nature from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192117	It is of a very special nature. I forgot to say that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party and referring to my rapporteur's speech. It also applies to the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192126	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. It's the Justice Minister's turn. It has no hurry for those who believe. Here you go, sir. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192146	That depends, Mr President, on what you believe in. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of the draft law. Here it is proposed to postpone the revision of the applicable Danish logging rules. However, the government still wants to review them, and the reason for the delay is that the National Police and PET have made recommendations for new logging rules, such as: includes logging information on Internet traffic. Based on the recommendations, we have got an external consultant's office to calculate the economic impact of the recommendations. Because we want to give the police the best opportunity to solve serious crime, and this should be done on an informed and proper basis. The calculations have pointed to conversion costs for the industry in the region of 1 billion. kr. In the view of the government, this exceeds the limit of the acceptable. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice has recently held meetings with representatives of the telecommunications industry and a number of large telecommunications and Internet providers, where a useful and constructive dialogue has been established on the development of the logging rules of the future. There is no doubt that the need for new logging rules is real and urgent. In my opinion, this is about finding a model that adequately responds to the needs of the police, but at the same time does not impose unacceptable burdens on the industry. I therefore believe that we should now take the time necessary to continue the good dialogue with the industry, and this means that we can only table a legislative proposal on the revision of the logging rules next parliamentary year. According to the law in force, the Minister of Justice is required to make proposals for revision of the logging rules in 2014-2015. The proposed legislative proposal amends the current revision provision so that it is in line with reality, so that I put forward proposals for revision of the rules in the next parliamentary year. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament. I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192336	That was the Minister for Justice's contribution, and I would like to thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192401	The debate is open and we must once again ask the Minister of Justice to step up on the stage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192427	Citizens' legal certainty is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. There is no doubt about that, and that is why I think it goes without saying that we should be aware of possible consequences for legal certainty when we in the Danish Parliament draw up and deal with proposals for new legislation. So far, so good. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to introduce a system which will involve mandatory impact assessments of legislative proposals if the draft law is deemed to have significant implications for legal certainty. Following the motion for a resolution, such consequences will have to be set out in the draft law's observations, and it would also have to be stated in the comments if the legislative proposal does not have legal implications. However, as we will discuss in more detail, it already follows today from the Guide on Quality of Law and the Guide on Impact Assessment that it should be explained exactly in the draft law's comments. The legal quality guide includes, among other things: Thus, rules that the general comments of the draft law should contain some mandatory points on certain consequences of the proposal. The mandatory element is that the points must be included, even if the draft law does not have the actual consequences that the paragraph deals with. The existing mandatory items have been selected on the basis of an assessment of which issues are generally most relevant for the assessment of legislative proposals. This is a balancing exercise in order to ensure that the comments are thorough and complete in view of the fact that the comments should only refer to relevant issues. There are now nine mandatory points in a draft law's comments. One of these points is the issue of the administrative consequences for citizens. Following the Guide on Impact Assessments, to which the proposers themselves refer, this section includes, inter alia: the consequences in relation to the legal certainty of citizens. In other words, this means that what the authors of the motion for a resolution want to achieve is already contained in the current rules for drafting legislative proposals. Having said that, I think we need to recognise that in practice, guidance on impact assessments is not fully implemented on this point. A small and completely unscientific sample survey that we have carried out in the Ministry of Justice suggests at least that. However, this does not mean, and it is important that, in this context, it can be concluded that there is a lack of an assessment of the legal consequences in the legislative proposals today. In accordance with the requirements of the Guide on Quality of Law, the consequences of the comments on the individual provisions of the bill will normally be explained in detail. Only last year, in our so-called shepherd's letter on legislative matters to all ministries, we stressed the need for special detailed comments to be made on regulations that equip the authorities with new means of controlling access to private property. On the same occasion, we also pointed out that, in the light of Parliament's consideration of legislative proposals, this should be explained in a draft law's observations if the proposal has given rise to more extensive consideration in relation, for example, to: EU law and the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the comments on the individual provisions of a draft law do not give the same overview as a summary description under the mandatory paragraphs. I will therefore ensure that the obligation already in force to describe the legal consequences of the legislative proposal under the heading of administrative consequences for citizens is reinforced. This can be done appropriately in the next so-called shepherd letter of the Ministry of Justice, which I expect to send out before the summer break. The shepherd letter is sent to all ministries and is published at www.retsinformation.dk. Should there be Members in the Chamber who still think that the possible impact of the legislative proposal on legal certainty should have its own separate fixed point in the comments, it is important for me to point out the following: from a purely legal point of view, it is a quality in itself that the comments on a legislative proposal are limited to a reference to the matters relevant in that context. In fact, this restriction helps to ensure that the issues relevant to be taken into account in the legislative proposal in question are kept in focus. In this respect, I should like to say quietly that, no matter how important it is to describe it if a legislative proposal has implications for citizens' legal certainty, it is far from all the legislative proposals we are dealing with in this Chamber, which actually have such consequences and thank God for it, one is tempted to say so. If a new mandatory paragraph is introduced which deals only with the implications of the legislative proposal for legal certainty, it will give rise to questions as to which other cross-cutting issues may be included as separate points in the comments to a legislative proposal. The inclusion of a new separate mandatory point could eventually have the unintended effect of losing the clarity which the fixed points should contribute to creating. The government does not want to be a part of that. Against this background, and with the promise to send out a shepherd's letter ensuring that the legislation we have is complied with properly, I must give all the support that is desirable during the committee procedure and answer all possible questions both in the East and in the West and in the North and in the South.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192933	A brief remark from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524192937	It started so well, and I was so happy when the Minister for Justice had this positive approach to it, as I heard, because it is not always the case in the Chamber. But then the Minister goes on to say that, for the sake of the legal certainty of the citizens, we must keep the comments on a legislative proposal as concise as possible, and therefore there should not be a new point, for example. legal certainty. The points already made may have all sorts of good reasons for having economic consequences for business and for the public sector and for relations with EU law, etc. In fact, it is quite wide-ranging that the Minister can have a great influence on how it is then defined. But I will now come up with a specific question. I am also the tax rapporteur, and I am taking part in many negotiations over at the tax minister, and in one of the negotiations he said that now he came with legal certainty packages I and II and III, etc., and one of the elements should be that now all areas of taxation should be screened in relation to legal certainty. Then I said, "Dear Minister of Taxation, I have already suggested this, so you don't have to do that. And he was really happy about that, I think it looked like that. So does the Minister of Justice think that the tax minister has misjudged something when the tax minister thinks that all tax laws should be screened • that one should make a small flybone there • in relation to legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193125	I do not want to interfere in the tax's view of legal certainty, so time simply does not allow me at the moment to deal with it in such depth in the Parliamentary Chamber. I am very pleased that a minister has come to take this issue seriously in the SKAT. What I can just say is that it is part of the requirement for the current treatment of legislative proposals that the legal effects are described. But I cannot deny that this has not always been done skilfully enough, and we will now write out to all the ministries that it has to happen. And if all of this in combination can help to make the tax minister as happy as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen describes it, then everything is actually good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193219	Many legislative proposals do not have any economic or administrative impact on citizens, public or business, or EU law etc., so there are plenty of officials in advance who, compared to every bill, write no, no, no for a number of parameters. Why is this more important than the legal certainty of citizens? Because I fully agree with the Minister for Justice that it is very good that we have a tax minister who has a great deal of focus on legal certainty, and I know that the Minister for Justice also has that on his own merits and opinions. That is why I cannot understand why one clause cannot be introduced, which should be more important than all the others, namely how this affects the legal certainty of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193313	So I simply do not fully understand what the rapporteur is asking me. What I am trying to say is that this should be explained by the individual ministries in their legislative proposals, i.e. if there are legal consequences. It needs to be elucidated. And that is what I understand Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen wants. So I actually thought that my message that I can say this already applies and that now, because we have seen that it may not have been fully followed, I will write out to the individual ministries to ensure what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen wants would bring joy to the rapporteur. But I understand that it doesn't, and of course I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193356	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193407	The proposers require the government to carry out so-called mandatory impact assessments of future legislative proposals if it is considered that the draft law will have significant implications for legal certainty. And the proposers say that this should be explained in the comments on the draft law. In the Social Democratic Party, we always support the fact that there is a focus on legal certainty when new legislation is adopted. As the Minister mentioned, it is already part of the parameters on which any new legislative proposal must be measured. A balance must therefore be struck between the legal consequences for the citizen. So we believe that what the proposers are proposing here is already being done. At the same time, it is a starting point for our political discussions. We can then have different views on where the balance is in relation to legal certainty. In fact, I think we certainly have heard that from the many debates that are in this Chamber. However, the discussion and the balance are precisely the starting point for our discussions and questions, just as it is our responsibility as politicians and, indeed, also with ministerial responsibility both to ask questions, but also to answer questions relating to precisely legal certainty in new legislation. So we cannot support the proposal here, but we would then call for questions to be asked to the Minister about the legal consequences when we discuss any proposals in this House. In fact, we believe that this is our duty as members of parliament if we are uncertain about the content of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193553	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193558	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur, like the Minister for Justice, is afraid that the comments on the legislative proposal will be too long if we are to introduce a stick on legal certainty, where we have to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193611	In fact, that was not quite what I heard the Minister of Justice say, and we can of course make fun of that part, but that is not what I heard the Minister of Justice say. I heard him say that there should be no repetitions of what is already there, and we are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193630	The questioner said that it is our responsibility to ask questions about legal certainty and so on. Now I have only been a legal rapporteur since the summer, but I have already discovered that we have slightly different definitions of it, and that is quite fair too, but the rapporteur does not think that we, as politicians, should also ask questions about the costs of different things, i.e. how much it costs for citizens, for companies, for the public and so on.? We must probably question that too, but some officials still write that it has no significant impact on citizens, for example. And if we disagree with that then we can say: Well, how can it be, because that and that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193707	Of course, the consequences have to be assessed, and I have also noted that there is a proposal here later today in which the proposers state that the financial costs must be paid with the smell of picking an orange, so there are different ways of interpreting it, and there can certainly be a difference in how to do it from ministerial to ministerial. But then, in fact, I believe that it is our duty as Members of Parliament, when we adopt new legislation, to ask follow-up questions if it is not detailed enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193743	Thank you very much to Mrs Trine Bramsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524193751	Thank you. For the Danish People's Party, the legal certainty of citizens is also extremely important and it is equally important that the Danish Parliament has the best conditions for making decisions when dealing with a bill. For this reason, the fine guidance on impact assessments of no less than 80 pages from March 2015 has also been prepared. This analysis sets out the details of how each Resort Minister is obliged to draw up their legislative proposals. With this resolution, the Socialist People's Party will require the government to carry out impact assessments if the legislative proposal is deemed to have significant implications for legal certainty. As the rules are today, all such consequences should be explained. In any case, there is no legal obstacle in which we have just heard the Minister of Justice explaining incredibly carefully, and if that is not the case, then the rules should be clarified to the ministries, and we have received a statement from the Minister here today that a shepherd's letter is now being sent out which points the pen, if you can put it that way. So the Danish People's Party believes that SF with this motion for a resolution kicks in an open door. But it's always nice to have taken this discussion from the platform, because it has done that we now get this shepherd's letter, and that the proposers also get something out of it, by being followed up on some things. We always think that is nice, and it is always nice to have this discussion, because if you have not thought in some oversight that it might not have been so precise, then the authors of the motion for a resolution have had this clarified in a way that now comes this shepherd's letter from the minister. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal, but we are happy to have the discussion and also look forward to this shepherd's letter coming out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194000	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194003	I would like to ask Mrs Susanne Eilersen something. I know, of course, that DF is very much concerned with the legal certainty of its citizens. In fact, I believe that we have also discussed it in a two-handed manner, and I have also done so with the rapporteur's colleagues. In particular, we have discussed this with the fact that citizens can get into trouble in the system, in the municipalities or in the state, or where it can be. It's a matter for DF. That is why we also believe in the SF that when you can have some sticks where it says exactly what this costs business, how the bill relates to EU law, it would be very nice to have a very clear yes-no answer to the question of whether this has any impact on citizens' legal certainty. I am sure that the rapporteur has often read comments on legislative proposals, which some very talented officials have written in very long terms, and we are not always quite sure what it says there. I just think it would be nice to have an answer to the question of whether this could have any impact on citizens' legal certainty. There are, of course, lots of technical legislative proposals that we are voting on in here which have no significance in this way. That's why I'm just a little surprised that DF can't support it, because I think it would be so easy to put that stick in. After all, I think that the legal certainty of citizens is just as important as the question of how it relates to EU law and the other things that are already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194133	The proposer is quite right in saying that we are very concerned about the legal certainty of our citizens. But we also believe, like the Minister and others here in the Chair, that there is an extremely large catalogue of guidance in which it is included. We are also concerned with simplifying rules, and I do not believe that the legal certainty of citizens will be improved by adding something extra when we can already write something in on the basis of what is there today. So I am quite sure that when this shepherd's letter comes in, perhaps the proposer will also see that there are other things going on. But as the law lays, is it possible today, so why build something extra upstairs? As has been said before, we always have the opportunity to ask the Minister questions about the legislative proposals we are going to adopt, so I see no problem in having to build on something already existing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194237	This motion for a resolution is just very simple in that we ask the ministries to cook what they have already examined as with economics, EU law, etc. It can be anything from the process of Disbursement Denmark................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It would simply be boiled down to a broth, so to speak, so that we could say that we value the legal certainty of citizens as much as the other points set out in the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194332	We are always particularly interested in the things that the questioner just mentioned with Payout Denmark and other things that affect citizens very much. If we in the Danish People's Party are at least in doubt about how this affects citizens' legal certainty, then we will ask some additional questions if we do not think that what the bill says makes sense to us. Then we'll always go in and ask these extra questions. That is why we believe that it is to put an extra law on top of the legislation that is already in place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194404	Thank you, Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, and welcome to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194412	Thank you. I must remind you that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. As a small party, you do not always have the opportunity to participate anywhere in Christiansborg, where there are meetings. SF wants a mandatory impact assessment on the legal certainty of the draft law. This is similar to what is happening today with regard to EU law, environmental law, economic and administrative consequences, etc. I am not going to make a long speech, because I can refer on the whole to the Minister's fairly detailed examination of the situation. Already today, in the context of the legislative quality guide and the impact assessment guide, or whatever it is called, there is a requirement that the administrative consequences of the legislative proposal should be described, including legal certainty. That's what the minister went through. Having said that, I must admit to the author that in my view it is not always the case that legal certainty has an independent chapter here. That is why I think it is quite excellent that the Minister should now clarify the provisions of guidance in a shepherd's letter that comes around in different ministries. Legal certainty is important, and this has to be mentioned in the legislative proposal. The fact that it may be difficult, in relation to some legislative proposals, to clarify its importance for legal certainty is another matter. Other proposals may be more obvious. So in view of the fact that things have already been described and that a shepherd's letter has been sent with clarification, I can say that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194614	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194618	I would like to ask the rapporteur, as a legislator and as a lawyer, a lawyer and as a liberal, whether it is most important for the rapporteur that a legislative proposal be judged on the basis of its environmental consequences or that it be judged on the basis of its legal implications for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194643-2	I can't answer that. I'm not in a position to make that balance, hypothetically at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194652	Thank you. I think it is just because I have not experienced the rapporteur so often in these otherwise violent environmental and natural policy discussions that we can have in this Chamber. I just thought that the rapporteur thought that what is the basis for good legislation is the legal certainty of citizens first and foremost. That's why it would be obvious, when you boil down the various assessments to a broth to write it into this table, that citizens' legal certainty would of course have to have an independent stick. Alternatively, you could write what legal certainty, including administrative, consequences a legislative proposal has for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194736-2	Well, I am not in a position to give a balance between what is most important and what should be highlighted, whether it is the environment or legal certainty. It therefore depends more on what the proposal contains. However, as I said before, and I feel a bit like the Minister for Justice, one may not always be thanked for giving an outstretched hand here. I would like to say to the proposer that I understand the proposal, and I would also like to see legal certainty clarified in the proposals. However, I think it is quite sufficient for the procedure which the Minister has presented to Parliament here today, namely in a shepherd's letter, to clarify that it must be described in the guidance and therefore in the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194827	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten, the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524194839	Thank you. After all, legal certainty is not only affected when we deal with legislation in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but also when all other areas are affected. It may be in the field of social policy, it may be in the field of taxation and many other areas where legal certainty plays a key role and where it may not receive as much attention as it should be given and which we should give it when we, as legal rapporteurs, deal with legislative proposals. It is just more obvious to have an eye for legal certainty when you deal with it a lot. That is why I think it is very good to keep a focus, not least because we have also seen examples of legal certainty or considerations being overlooked in other areas. We think this sounds like a really good idea. After all, there are firm, explicit assessments of economic and administrative consequences for business, administrative consequences for citizens, environmental consequences, the relationship with EU law. It would also be very good to have a systematic assessment of the legal implications for citizens. So it got a lot longer than it could have been. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195014	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195036	There is no doubt that this proposal has been put forward with the best intentions, that is, that we keep a firm focus on legal certainty and that we do not weaken the position of citizens in relation to the state and its machinery of power. These are important considerations and there is no doubt that legal certainty is put under pressure from time to time, just as we have just discussed it, for example. in relation to the Edward Snowden case or session logging, and therefore security mechanisms are needed. The fact that the Liberal Alliance does not intend to vote in favour of this proposal is due to the fact that it does not really contribute anything new to the legal situation. Indeed, it is already a requirement today that the importance of legislative proposals for legal certainty be assessed in terms of impact, and although the ministries may well be reminded of this from time to time, this very tool is already in the toolbox. The risk that the adoption of this proposal will contribute to bureaucracy and duplication of effort is therefore greater than the likelihood that citizens will be able to reap legal benefits. On the other hand, of course, we intend to keep a close eye on the Minister of Justice and to keep him up to his stated intention to take care of the system. In fact, we should go another way, and in the Liberal Alliance we have aired that idea on previous occasions. What might be useful was that the Folketing could draw on completely independent assessments and analyses when it comes to complex economic, legal or legal matters. The fact that we have a unit which does not sit in a ministry which gives its interpretation of the text would probably be more likely to upgrade the debate and decisions here in the Folketing. But, of course, that's a different story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195229	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund, there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195239	We are now dealing with B 149, which is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on impact assessment of the importance of legislative proposals for legal certainty. As the title suggests, the proposers of the motion for a resolution want to require the government to carry out mandatory impact assessments of a legislative proposal if it is considered that the legislative proposal will have significant implications for legal certainty. I must start by saying that the alternative warmly supports increasing the focus on legal certainty. The last few years have been marked by the continuing terrorist threat in Europe and a terrible conflict in Syria, which has also led to an increase in refugees to Europe. In addition to the obvious challenges, it has also taken a general view that there must be more action in society that has implications for legal certainty. This is among other things. Something Justitia mentions in several reports. There has also been a continuing tendency in recent years to shut down public insight into the machinery spaces of power, and therefore, in our optics, there is an increased need for a focus on legal certainty. Today, legislative proposals are screened in relation to consequences, for example. the environment, business and the public economy, and that is why we think it is a good thing that an additional parameter can be put in place to assess the legal consequences of a legislative proposal. I also hear what the Minister is saying here today about wanting to send out a letter to the ministries that they should tighten it up. I think it is important to look at what the Minister has in mind, because immediately we support the proposal, but we are also open to what the Minister of Justice is proposing, because we should not just put more legislation on top of legislation. But what I can see in this proposal is that you want a concrete tightening up in relation to firm, every time, to have a definite focus on it. And it is important for the alternative that it be followed up one way or the other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195446	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195452	Thank you. We are also in favour of legal certainty. I think all parties will say that they do that here from the platform. Nevertheless, we are constantly seeing legislation being put forward in the Folketing, which various consultation parties believe in one way or another compromise legal certainty. That is why I also believe that the legal certainty-compromising decisions that are sometimes taken in the Folketing are not due to a lack of knowledge. They're due to a lack of will. And although I am in many ways in favour of the proposal and the focus of it, I do not think that it will really help the problems we are experiencing. One of the cases of lack of legal certainty in recent years has been in the case of foreigners, namely that refugees can be detained without a court order. It's something you've done with your eyes open. And in the same way there are a number of different legislative proposals in which the Justitia, the Institute for Human Rights and the Association for Legal Affairs have pointed out that there are legal consequences, but the legislation is still being adopted with open eyes. So, although we are concerned with legal certainty and in principle in favour of the proposal, we do not think it is the right medicine. The right medicine is that we have a Parliament that is willing to take decisions that respect the rule of law and the rule of law. The problem is not a lack of knowledge of the consequences of legislation. It is certainly not our impression that that is where the problem lies. So, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195656	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195659	Thank you. I think I know the rapporteur well enough to know that the rapporteur followed with interest the whole case of L 87, i.e. the new law on foreigners. And I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur remembers what was going on in terms of administrative consequences for citizens, because that is what we are hearing, namely that it actually means a little the same thing, i.e. administrative, including legal security implications for citizens. It's kind of an unfair question to have to answer on a stand-by basis. I just think that this has meant a great deal to the rapporteur's party, in other words this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195735	I think I was on maternity leave when it was adopted, and I think it is a little strange to ask trick questions, but Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen may perhaps tell me what the question is really about, because in the question there are also problems which have been clarified, and then the Folketing has chosen to adopt this legislation with open eyes anyway. That is my appeal against this proposal. It is not that I do not want us to deal with legal certainty, but I just think that when there are legal security problems in new legislation, we are thankfully told by the many good consultation parties we have, who are concerned with legal certainty. If, however, it is adopted despite the knowledge that there are legal certainty-compromising elements in the legislation, then it is because there is a Parliament and a majority in some cases which, in other words, think there are other things that are more important than legal certainty. That is why I think that is where the problem is: it is the political will that is lacking that is not knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195839	I could not remember the rapporteur being on maternity leave at the time, but that is true. When I just picked this example and it is not because I expect you as rapporteur to remember something like this on a stand-by basis, it was because there was a lot of discussion in the Chamber about this law amending the law on foreigners, L 87, and there was a lot of input, including from organisations, about some of the things that were considered to be legally questionable. What is under the heading of merely administrative consequences for citizens is that a fee must be paid at the end. So I think that if you really want to have a discussion about whether something has legal implications for citizens, then surely you would not just focus on paying a fee in relation to family reunification and something like that. I think that when it is important that this is an independent point, it is because those many, many pages, which officials of course write about legal status and in relation to international conventions, etc., are boiled down to a broth. So if the administrative consequences for citizens were to include legal certainty, I do not think that this huge law alone would simply say that it has the consequence that a fee has to be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524195958	Well, I doubt that it would have made any difference in the way in which the bill was dealt with, because, on the other hand, the consultation parties pointed out that there were some legal problems, some of which could be taken into the Chamber as a party. I am quite sure that my own party colleagues have done so and that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and her party have also done so. So that's why I just can't see what difference it would make. I might also fear that, despite the fact that one had such a rule, and we obviously do not have that, there would be anything about it, because unfortunately we also have to see that that is the reality, perhaps just, I am not a lawyer, that there are always different interpretations in relation to whether or not we break human rights. There are some interpretations that we can read in consultation answers, and then there are other interpretations that the officials make. Similarly, even if we do not want it to be politicised, this will soon be politicised in a way in which the officials do not think that it has legal consequences, but where the organisations point out that it can have legal consequences. That is why I do not think, regardless of the good intentions, that this will make the work of our parties, my party and also of the proposer's party easier. I do not think that the work to ensure legal certainty will be any easier from this proposal, because then perhaps we should be arguing with the ministries whether they have now made the right assessments, because we can point out that there are some other assessments in consultation answers. In other words, let us take that debate clearly politically at all. It is better to take the debates politically upfront in Parliament than to think that they can be incorporated into some processes, etc. I'm afraid that just doesn't work because it could be so nice if it did.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524200151	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524200214	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his comments, first of all, of course, to those who think this is a good idea, but also, in fact, in general terms, and also to the Minister for his opinion that this should be emphasised in a shepherd's letter. Something that I just honestly cannot understand from what has come up here from the platform is the indictment that this should be totally bureaucratic and time-consuming etc. Because the reason we have this schedule is because it's boiled down to a broth. Long economic impact assessments may often be made, including in the Ministry of Finance, of what something will cost the public and the business community, etc. It's so boiled down, so it's going to say that this is supposed to cost business 1 billion. kr., if e.g. is about the telecommunications industry and session logging, or whatever it might be. Then, too, a minister who makes a legislative proposal is forced to say quite concretely whether this has any impact on citizens, businesses and so on. Or not. And when you already have an official device that thinks in terms of what something has legal consequences, etc., it would just be a strong signal to have it on the list in this table as well. Because, of course, we have chosen the other points, because some people at any given time thought it important to say what it has to do with economic consequences for business, what it costs the public, whether there are problems with EU law and what it has to do with environmental consequences. It is also an expression of values that we want to make it clear whether a particular legislative proposal has consequences, for example. I cannot understand why you should think that this was extremely difficult. It is precisely to say that the most fundamental thing in our work must surely be to ensure that the legislative proposals put forward have at least assessed how this affects the legal certainty of citizens, and that is quite clear. Officials are loyal to ministers, to ministries and to governments. That is the government we have in Denmark, and that is why sometimes there are also some incredibly long explanations of how one or the other is in relation to conventions or whatever it is. If you get it into such a schedule, you are just forced to say either that no, it has no legal consequences, or indeed, it may have some, but you live with that, or it has some, but you want to challenge the conventions or whatever it may be, and that is what I think, especially in the time we live in, is so important to get the clear explanation of. The example that I asked the rapporteur of the Radicals was precisely one of the most controversial draft legislation we have had for a long time, or at least in the last year and in this Assembly, namely L 87, the major draft law on the amendment of the law on foreigners, where there are a great many different elements, and some have been very happy about it, others have not been happy about it, and there has been a great and long discussion about it; there has been input from NGOs and from other organisations, and the right and the left in the Chamber have been arguing about it, so it has been banging and so on. When I look at what is in the section on the administrative implications for citizens in this huge bill, L 87 and there you have to think that it is also about legal certainty that you should be aware that you now have to pay a fee, I just think that it doesn't entirely encapsulate the discussion that has been going on. And that is not because I am going to stand up here and predefine what legal certainty is, because we could have a discussion about that, or the government could set up a committee to assess it. It is not always clear what this has to do with the economic consequences for the citizens; it is estimated that it has no one, but it may have some unintended consequences. Sometimes I would also like to say that there have been legislative proposals or resolutions in the field of the environment, where it has been said that there are no consequences, and there is still a disagreement. So it's best man's best estimate in these cases. If there is no majority in favour of this, I think it was obvious, and I would have thought that there was a good chance of it, then of course I would both like to be involved in writing a report in committee if anyone is interested in it, and I would also like to thank the Minister for the offer to send out a shepherd's letter to underline it. But when I am not happier and I am sorry, if I have disappointed the Minister for Justice, it is because what I wanted was for us to get it into this schedule to say that it is just as important as the environment as EU law, as the financial consequences for private, public and citizens, and that was the signal we would send by putting it into that table. But I would also not underestimate the signal coming from a Minister of Justice who sends out a shepherd's letter saying that it is important that you incorporate it. There are, however, often some very long, intricate explanations as to why something is not in conflict with the conventions or one or the other, and then I would just think it would be nicer if we could take those discussions up front and say: yes, there are some parties that think that some of the conventions are bad, and they should be changed, you should challenge them or whatever it might be, and then we could take the political differences instead of wrapping things up in Djøf-lingo. And I can say that because I'm a djøf myself. So this was a wish situation for me, and I am sorry that it is not going to happen, but I would like to thank the Minister for having this shepherd's letter at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524200848	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has wished to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524200907	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524200939	The motion for a resolution instructs the government to take the necessary steps to allow Danish citizens over 15 years of age to acquire, possess and use pepper spray in self-defense within the framework of the criminal code provisions on emergency guardians. The government agrees with the proposers that as a citizen of Denmark one should be able to move safely and safely, and that is actually why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. For it is not the government's view that pepper spray for self-defense will increase security and safety at all. Firstly, pepper spray cannot only be used as self-defense weapons. It can also use as an attack weapon, and it is difficult to see it as anything other than a security risk if people can legally carry weapons of attack in the street picture and in the night life. Secondly, the use or threat of using a self-defence weapon can lead to the escalation of a specific conflict situation, and thirdly, pepper spray is not harmless. In connection with the motion for a resolution, the Ministry of Justice has asked for an opinion from the Danish Health Service on the dangers of pepper spray. The Danish Health Service states that there are grounds for maintaining a ban from a health point of view and that the use of pepper spray requires special instructions. The Danish Health Authority's recommendation is to maintain for health reasons that pepper spray is not used for self-defense. I agree with that, because if everyone can legally carry a pepper spray, then we risk completely innocent people being exposed to that weapon. As I have said, the government agrees with the proposers that we must continue to work to increase the security of our citizens, which is why a number of initiatives have been taken and, fortunately, a number of them have also been taken together with the proposers. Increased security is in focus in Respect Package I and in the rape package, and it is the government's view that if we are to increase security and security in society, we should not give people more weapons into our hands. Instead, we must prevent weapons from coming into the hands of the wrong ones or being present in situations where they do not belong. The knife law that has just been adopted sharpens the course towards knives, among other things. nightlife and criminal environments and are precisely an example of such legislation, and I believe that this is the way we should go. In general, it is not our view that the proposal will contribute to more security and less crime. Our concern is that it will contribute to less security and more crime. A pepper spray can be used as an attack weapon, can escalate a conflict and cannot be considered harmless, and thus there will be a significant risk that legalising pepper spray for self-defense will in fact be counterproductive to security. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201219	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201224	Thank you. I am, of course, a little disappointed that the Minister will not agree with our excellent resolution. But I can also understand that the Left has changed its position in this area, because when I was preparing for the discussion of the proposal in the Chamber, I came across an article from TV2 Nord on 21 April this year, in which the rapporteur for the Court of Justice, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, following on from the fact that TV2 Nord can tell us that in Finland and Sweden today you can apply to wear a pepper spray, a scheme which the Left in turn would like to discuss, says, and I quote: this could be an option that we could consider in connection with the resolution's discussion in the Folketing. Similarly, it could also be considered whether you should be allowed to have pepper spray at home in the event of burglary. That's what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. I think it sounds like an opening, because what kind of arrangement is the Danish People's Party proposing with the proposal? That is exactly the arrangement referred to in the article, that is to say, that you can apply for a permit or that you can have the pepper spray at home if you fear breaking into the house. So what has caused the Left to change its mind on this issue since 21 April?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201340	I do not believe that the Left has changed its mind. What the current rapporteur of the Court of Justice of the Left did not get quite the date, but let it be opened up at that time was a discussion. And that can be taken in committee, and I am quite sure the rapporteur will have ample opportunity to do so, together with others. Left rapporteur. There will also be ample opportunity to obtain answers from the Ministry of Justice and to hear how you view it in this context. No, there is no change in attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201414	That can always be discussed. But then I acknowledge that there are two views on this matter. The Minister then says in the Minister's speech that an opinion has been obtained from the Danish Health Service that pepper spray should be dangerous. I cannot help thinking that it can at least not be as dangerous as what many young women carry in their bags today as hair polish and spray and other things that some people publicly say they are going to use for self-defense. However, I found such a list here of comparable countries, EU countries that have legalised pepper spray in a much more liberal proposal or in a much more liberal version than what the Danish People's Party is proposing here. I think it is strange that a party that calls itself a liberal will not support liberal ideas, which are, after all, that we should have the opportunity to defend ourselves. The Danish People's Party's proposal does not even contain as broad rules as one might say. has in Germany or in the Scandinavian countries, so it is strange that the government does not want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201520	Well, I can't answer anything other than that, for example. is in the opinion obtained from the Danish Health Service, because it is what it is. With regard to liberalism, I must remind you that we have just implemented a law of knifes, which is characterised by a balance between those things in which we are hitting hard, for example. The possession of knife by criminals. These matters must be balanced against the balance we want in the Community, which, fortunately, in relation to very many other countries, is characterised by low crime in the field of violence. It is of course too high for the individual because things are happening, but in relation to the countries with which we compare, Denmark is quite good. And that is something we value. We want to protect the Denmark we know so that we can continue to have such conditions in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201611	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is no further wish to make brief comments. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201620	Thank you. I am very convinced that there can be no old articles or quotes where the current Socialist rapporteur supports the legalisation of pepper spray. The aim of the proposal, as the Minister also mentioned, is to legalise pepper spray. This must be done in accordance with the same criteria as apply to the issue of arms licences. We cannot support the proposal here today. In the Social Democratic Party we listen to the police when they strongly advise against legalising pepper spray, and they have done so several times. Indeed, there is a great risk of criminals arming up if pepper spray is legalised as small arms. In the worst case scenario, this could mean more knives and other weapons for perpetrators, which could cause great damage. That's what the police say, and we're listening to that. At the same time, we have seen in several countries that have introduced pepper sprays that much more accidents occur in homes, especially where children are involved. So it is a medical assessment that pepper spray can cause injury to people, especially the eyes. We must combat crime and the causes of crime, but we do not do so by legalising small arms. We are very happy to discuss how we can further eliminate crime. We are very concerned about this in the social democracy, but the solution will never be to legalise weapons. In those words, we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201802	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524201811	It's incredibly free advertising we get here in the Folketing. Thank you for that, President. This must be correct). Yes, it is true that it must be correct, and it is also right to say that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party in this matter. It's hard for a small party to reach everything here at Christiansborg. With the proposal here, the Danish People's Party wants to legalise pepper spray for self-defense within the framework of legal emergency guardian. I understand the intention behind the proposal. That is also what I have said in the past, and it is also worth considering and discussing here in the Folketing and examining further. However, as the proposal stands, the Left cannot support it. The Danes' sense of security and general security has long been a priority for the Left. This is also clearly reflected in the work carried out by the Minister of Justice to date. However, there are several reasons why the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands today, that is to say the proposal amending the arms law. When we have reservations about the proposal as it stands today, this is partly due to the fact that we might fear that it will lead to a escalation of conflict, which the Minister of Justice also mentioned an escalation, if that is the case. In addition, it will give a false sense of security. In various studies I have also found out how the police feel about this case, and in this connection I can see that police chief Jens Kaasgaard over in West Jutland tells us that there is a great risk that the thief will get the pepper spray in question only when he breaks into the bedroom. It can create a false sense of security. We must also examine the conditions under which citizens' services are to be provided by the proposers. Normally, it is the police who are making sure that the conditions laid down in the arms legislation are met or not. It is proposed by the authors that the age limit for obtaining or purchasing a pepper spray should be 15 years. In any case, I would say, it will introduce pepper spray in very many schools. Unfortunately, I'm afraid so, and we have plenty of shit in schools and high schools of this kind. So what are the necessary modifications? This is another element of the proposal, but I do not see them immediately. The proposers want the buyer to be able to buy pepper sprays. It is written clearly that these pepper sprays must be possible to acquire in a supermarket. It's pure words for the money, I must say. It is then made clear that it must be without control by the seller. The only person to verify the existence of the necessary authorisation is the buyer himself. I think that the buyer is a little insane in that discussion, I must honestly admit, and I think, unfortunately, that there will be a great risk that the wrong people consider themselves entitled to buy pepper sprays and that they can therefore be used as real weapons of attack. But having said all that, I have to say that I fully understand the background to the proposal here. It is, of course, because of people's insecurity and it could be considered, discussed and assessed in greater detail whether it might be permitted to have pepper spray in the home under more specific circumstances. I will certainly not deny that. However, with the criteria laid down in the proposal here, I have to reject the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202147	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202152	Thank you to the rapporteur for telling us what the rapporteur's party thinks. I really want to read out the same quote for the rapporteur, it is the rapporteur's own quote that I read out to the Minister for Justice before. I can't really figure out what's been changed. Well, this is from April 21st this year. I do not really understand that the Left on 21 April can be very accommodating to what is the intention of the proposal and also the way it is put together, and yet stand on the heels of this. I think that's something weird. And I can assure the rapporteur that if it is a question of the age limit or the provision of citizens' services or the necessary modifications, then we can have a talk about it; then we can make an amendment so that the Left can also take part, for example. so you could start with a scheme where this was for private homes. I will not deny that at all. Will the rapporteur be willing to do so? In other words, could it be imagined that the Left voted in favour of a proposal stating that it was just a private home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202256	In relation to the quote that was presented to the Minister for Justice before, which I hardly remember now, I think it was a case of saying that we were open to a discussion of the circumstances here and that we were considering the possibilities that I think it was something like that, otherwise the questioner will have to correct me and I can only confirm that we are. People who are in their homes and are in a certain insecurity and anxiety I can't avoid thinking of course would like a pepper spray. Therefore, there may be circumstances in which we should consider being able to hand over one to them. I must honestly admit that the way in which the proposal has been put forward today, after which it must be able to be pulled off the shelf in a supermarket by every child, and I say child who has just reached the age of 15, is not at all in line with the position of the Left. If we are to introduce pepper spray, there must at least be more thorough investigations into the consequences of it than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202359	Jeppe Cowfoot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202403	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but the chairman must think Mr. President. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Now the supermarket argument came into play, and I am quite willing to talk about this with the rapporteur's party. That's the way it is. I mean, everything is open for discussion. I also understand that the age-old argument came back in, and I quite basically do not understand that, because I hear the rapporteur saying that if this is in private homes, you want to. In other words, I would like to table an amendment to my own resolution on private homes if that means that the Left can promise that one will vote in favour of an amendment and subsequently vote in favour of the proposal. So for us, it's kind of more important that we start this development. Then we will have some experience and then we can look at whether the system should be extended. Will the Left be in on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202451	I'm sorry, Peter Kofod Poulsen. I just had to bring my head before I sat down. I'm sorry! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202500	Well, many of us will be happy to get our heads straight away, and that is also true of this proposal. For the proposal that we are considering today is the proposal that is on the table, and I cannot rule out the possibility of the second proposal being given a more favourable attitude. But I will not stand by and promise that we are generally in favour of pepper spray. I have to say that with the current experience, the Left is opposed to pepper spray in this context. We believe that there may be a false sense of security, we believe that there may be conflict escalation. But we're willing to look at all kinds of arguments in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202550	I think that this resolution is a little bit crazy and rather irresponsible. I think it is irresponsible to try to convince people that they are fighting for their security by introducing more weapons into our society, in other words that it should somehow give less crime, that there are more weapons available. And I hope it is an expression of ignorance. It is a little poor in itself, but if it is on purpose, then it is probably one of the most sneaky forms of voting fishing that I have actually experienced for a long time from the Danish People's Party, and that says a lot. In the comments, Dansk Folkeparti writes that the police report has not given rise to any criticism. That is quite wrong. There has been a lot of debate and criticism of the introduction of pepper spray in the police and of the fact that it has actually led to increased use of force, and therefore not a decrease in other forms of force, as it was thought would be. So it's definitely wrong. The comments also state that it will lead to security and less crime. That is also wrong. As others have explained, it will in all likelihood lead to conflict escalation in the situations that arise and it could be abused by people who do not use it in defence, for example. in the nightlife. One can only imagine what it would mean if it became legal to bring pepper spray into the nightlife. Try to consider how much we do to try to avoid knives in the nightlife and weapons in general in our society, because we know that so rarely do they use them in a legitimate way that ends up using them. They always end up in the wrong hands. Then there are some obvious irregularities in it too. I mean, civil service needs to give a permit. What professional skills do citizens' service staff have to assess who is able to handle a weapon, and on what criteria should permission be granted? In other words, if there are no criteria for obtaining authorization other than being over 15 years of age, but that is fine, if you have been convicted of all sorts of things in the past, then a permit may be of little use. There's an obvious hole to what you're supposed to do with that pepper spray. Where should it be included? Is it legal everywhere? Nor do the authors of the motion for a resolution mention this. I think that if we now know that this has the opposite effect, it is an insanely unfortunate argument that the presence of weapons must be allowed because some people may, unfortunately, be exposed to crime. One of the things that makes Denmark a very safe country is our strict arms legislation, and if we look into the world at countries that may resemble us but do not have strict arms legislation in the same way as we do, you can learn two things. Firstly, there is rarely any good in trying to prevent crime, and secondly, that it is crazy hard to roll back when it is there. If anyone's nose should have passed, Enhedslisten doesn't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202941	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524202947	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the conflict escalation. Well, it's almost being pointed out as a fact that if you vote through this and make it law, it will result in conflict escalation. Where did the rapporteur come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203005	I do, for example. from the Crime Prevention Council, which must be said to be some of the most important experts in terms of what prevents crime and what does not. But I guess that doesn't affect sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203019	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203021	Well, it would have an enormous impact on me if the rapporteur could point to a single country where the presence of pepper spray has led to conflict escalation. I mean, a single country. I have brought a long list here of European countries that have legalised pepper spray in a much more liberal version than what the Danish People's Party is proposing with this resolution. There we have such a highlight of some things and found that a majority of countries in Europe actually have much wider legislation for pepper spray than what we are proposing. After all, none of the countries has the impression that pepper spray would in any way escalate. You're really happy to have this opportunity. So can the rapporteur point to a country where pepper spray should have given rise to situations where something escalates?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203113	I think that is a funny argument. Conflict scaling is, of course, about the specific situation, and if a conflict arises, the possibility of using a pepper spray will increase the risk that it will actually be used, whereas that escalation could have been avoided in the specific situation. I don't know if we might use the word a little differently. I do not have a specific country other than what I have already mentioned, namely Denmark, and we have some experience which shows that the use of pepper spray by the police has led to increased use of force and no less
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203158	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203213	I think it is worth taking particular note of the point in the resolution we are debating now. The police have had and used pepper spray for a number of years, and their experiences have been good. There has been no criticism in the use of pepper spray, and there is a reasonable explanation for this. Pepper spray is suitable for self-defense or legal guardian, if you like. If an assailant is struck in the face, he or she will temporarily experience blindness and discomfort, but there will be no lasting damage. The person will be unable to carry out violence, abuse or any other act of offence, but the reaction to his or her assault is not in proportion to the attack. That balance is absolutely essential. It is the reason why countries we usually compare with in the legal field already allow pepper spray, and it is why many people experience increased security when they can defend themselves with pepper spray. At the same time, it is certainly worth discussing the desirability of holding firmly to a ban which seems to benefit less and less from the support of the population. We can at least note that there are reports of increased border sales of pepper spray to Danes. I have to say that it is the Liberal Alliance's belief that the proposers have found a sensible approach, namely the legalisation of pepper sprays, but with various built-in safeguards. If we are to be able to obtain a permit for arms, for example. It is clear that we cannot have been convicted in the past of violence or other serious crimes. The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203356	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203410	Thank you for the floor. We are now dealing with B 170, draft parliamentary resolution on the legalisation of pepper sprays for self-defense in the context of legal emergency guardians. The proposers want to require the government to take the necessary initiatives so that Danish citizens over 15 years of age can be allowed to acquire, possess and use a pepper spray in self-defence within the framework of the criminal code provisions on legal emergency guardians. The removal and possession of a pepper spray shall be carried out in accordance with the same criteria as apply to the issue of a permit for arms with the necessary modifications. The alternative is very much against the proposal. We believe that this is an unnecessary escalation designed to create a false security in the population. As the Crime Prevention Council also expresses, an increased approach to arms could lead to an escalation of conflict and thus to more and more serious violence. We also believe that more weapons in society will lead to an increase in insecurity and an escalation of violence than it will create security for citizens who acquire, for example. A pepper spray. The alternative is that only the police should have access to such means of power, and that is why we are strongly opposed to an arms race in the population, as this could be a start to. We shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203538	Thank you. I could do it so briefly just to say that we are against it. But it would also in one way or the end be to waste a good occasion. On the other hand, I actually have time off after this proposal, but some may not. But I also have to say that I think it is extremely foolish. I just wentogled pepper spray, and then one news comes after the other • Dansk Folkeparti: Pepperspray is to be sold in supermarkets. Danish People's Party: Pepperspray is to be delivered in citizen service. In fact, it sounds like an escalation, as if all young women who are going to the city would be urged to get a pepper spray. One thing is that it can lead to an escalation, but another thing is that it makes people more insecure than there really is evidence for, and I think it is in fact my biggest appeal to this proposal and so many other proposals from the Danish People's Party. You consistently speculate about creating insecurity and telling people that now you have to go out with a weapon because you risk being attacked by an assailant. And that is happening, and it is very serious, and we must do everything possible to avoid that, but that is not to an extent that justifies all young women now having to carry a pepper spray in their bags. Having said that, who knows if you will even be able to use it against the attacker, who knows if it is not the attacker who buys the pepper spray and uses it to passiveise the woman or who else you want. So I don't think this proposal serves the purpose, namely to be an effective emergency guard against attackers, but it creates a false security and that it may end up with people using the pepper spray against some innocent people, and then I actually think that Denmark has become a safer place than it was before this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524203750	I was very pleased to hear both the Minister and the rapporteur for the ruling party, the Left, speak against this, because that must mean that we have got a better idea. Two years ago, in January 2014, the then rapporteur, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, proposed that it should be legal and that both DF and Conservatives supported it too. I am glad that is no longer the position of the Left or the Government. When we in the SF are opposed to this, it is on the basis of some of the same arguments that some of my colleagues have raised, that is, that it can mean an escalation of violence and that it is a false security. We find ourselves in the slightly special situation in Denmark, that the citizens are generally safer or let me rephrase it, have reason to be safer than ever before; crime has fallen, but insecurity is increasing. And this is a dilemma that we have also talked about both in committee and with the Minister for Justice, because it is of course a real problem that the experience of being insecure is there, but that it is not proportional to the factual situation. There I think this proposal carries firewood to the fire by saying: in this country you must have a pepper spray on you, otherwise terrible things can happen. I think we should listen to some of the experts who work with this every day. The Crime Prevention Council states that it can provide false security and that it can escalate violence. And Claus Oxfeldt, chairman of the Police Union, said in 2014: "There is a real risk that violence will escalate if we do this legally. So the SF is against this motion for a resolution, and I am very pleased that some of the parties that have expressed a favourable opinion on it in the past cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204011	Thank you to the rapporteur. And so we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204034	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the many contributions they have made and also those who oppose us, although, of course, we are sorry that there is no immediate majority in the Folketing in favour of implementing our resolution. Of course, we are really, really sorry about that. The proposal is that it should be possible for the Danes to acquire, possess and use a pepper spray in self-defense. And I think that if you go out and ask the Danish people, there are a lot of Danes calling for the possibility of having a pepper spray, and who are sorry that you do not have the opportunity to have a pepper spray, in case there is a break-in in the house, or that you generally have to feel insecure, where with this simple measure you could have a sense of security, but of course also have the chance to defend yourself if you were to be subjected to, for example, a break-in. I mentioned earlier when I asked questions that I had gone through a longer list of comparable countries in Europe, and I can just list some of them: Austria, France, Finland, Germany, Italy, Latvia, Portugal, Slovakia, Switzerland and Spain; just to take some examples of countries that we could find out with a single google search actually already today has the solution that we in the Danish People's Party recommend with the resolution, or an even more far-reaching solution. Yes, in some countries you can even buy pepper sprays next to peanuts and lighters at the local gas station or at the local supermarket. With this proposal, we keep a healthy skepticism while at the same time giving the Danes who wish to own a pepper spray an opportunity to buy one. Of course, we should not throw them into the hands of people who may be a danger to the surrounding society, and that is why we are also proposing to regulate it, in other words to ensure that people convicted of violence should not, of course, be given the opportunity to have a pepper spray. But if you're generally quiet and peaceful, sir... And, of course, Mrs Jensen, you have to have the opportunity to own a pepper spray. I can also note from the reports from several youth parties that we simply have to sit down and wait, because at some point there will be a majority in bourgeois Denmark for us to have the possibility of having the possession and use of pepper spray introduced by law. The Youth of the Left is a good example and also the Youth of the Liberal Alliance and, as far as I understand, Conservative Youth wants this opportunity. So in principle, we could just sit down and wait for the youth politicians to become adult politicians, and hopefully we could have this debate again in 10-20 years' time, and then this would be introduced. All these admonitions from the politicians who recommend a 'no' vote, I find it very difficult to follow the argument. I have now stated in my relatively short speech that it is not a problem for many comparable countries, where you have this opportunity and where it can go well and where it also looks as if the people are incredibly happy with the solution. It's proven. I can also tell from the media stories that many young women who feel insecure instead of having a pepper spray that is relatively harmless, because this is a cayenne pepper extract, instead of running around with chemical sprays that, if used for self-defence, can cause chronic harm to an attacker, and I do not think that is in anyone's interest either. Pepper sprays are thus the best self-defense agent in the case of sprays. It is more gentle than what is being used today, and it does not cause much problems in other countries, if any. I therefore do not think I have heard very many good arguments, not to say one, to vote down our proposal, but we will, of course, continue to do so here in the Committee on Legal Affairs. After all, I also hear the advances that have at least been made by the Left, both by the legal rapporteur, but also by the former rapporteur, Mrs Inger Løjberg, and we will then have to work on that in the Legal Affairs Committee. I look forward to that very much. I'd also like to say hello to you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and say that the Conservatives support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204516	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204530	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204559	Thank you. The proposal aims to ensure that all police circles receive a special nature and environmental prosecutor with special competences in the field of nature and environmental crime. It is difficult to disagree with the fact that police circles must have the competence required to deal with cases of infringement of environmental legislation. However, when the government cannot support the proposal, it is not because the government disagrees that it should be so, but because the police circles are already organised, so as to ensure that environmental matters are dealt with by people with special competences. It is stated that only three of the country's 12 police circles have created special legal units in the field of nature and the environment. For the purposes of examining the motion for a resolution, the Attorney General has asked all police circles to provide information on the treatment of cases of breaches of nature and environmental law in the circles. On the basis of the answers given by the police circles, the Attorney General informs us that 10 police circles are organised in such a way that the more complex cases are dealt with in specific sections of the prosecution. The remaining 2, the Copenhagen Police and the Bornholm Police, have organised themselves differently, but here too, the more complicated cases are dealt with in a special attorney's office or by a prosecutor with special knowledge in the field after a visit from the Chief Prosecutor. In addition, cases of infringement of environmental legislation are dealt with as a starting point in cooperation with the environmental authorities. This is done to ensure that cases are dealt with with with the necessary professional knowledge. In addition, the Attorney General has stated that three professional forums have been set up in the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the Attorney General, the National Police Department, the Public Prosecutors and the police circles participate, and where strategic and professional issues are dealt with. General issues relating to legislation in the field of nature and the environment can also be addressed here. In addition, professional networks, including the network of special laws, have been set up, where highly specialised and concrete indictable and legal issues are dealt with. Finally, the Attorney General has stated that as something new, the Attorney General offered a three-day course last year on the treatment of special legal cases, and it included among other things: an examination of the specific problems raised by cases in the field of natural and environmental protection. A number of steps have therefore been taken to ensure that the necessary powers are present in the prosecution. The resolution is undoubtedly borne by the best intentions and intentions of the proposers, but the government cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204817	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204822	Thank you. There is a 2011 report from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, in which it is actually emphasised that better enforcement through better environmental competences of the prosecutors could be needed. That's why we're making this proposal. It is a report which shows that there have been many examples of cases which have been withdrawn and which have been dealt with in such a rather temporary way as compared with other areas. Is the Minister aware of that report and is it the impression of the Minister that major changes have taken place since that report came?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204905	At any rate, I would say that 2011 has been a long time since, and the statement I have received from the Public Prosecutor illustrates that it is focused on; that there are trained staff to take care of it; that it is something that has been taken seriously; and that, even last year, a course was held to deal with the issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204926	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204928	I'm glad to hear that. And then I would be interested to know how much this course has been used, how many have been on it and what the results have been of it. Is that something you know about yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524204943	I think I will refer questions about the specific number of participants and the like in the course in question to the committee procedure, but I just think that the answer to these points illustrates that this is something that has been taken quite seriously by the prosecution and that there are a great many professionals who understand the parts that are involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205002	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205016	Social democracy basically believes that we must take good care of our nature and our environment and find a balance where business considerations and consideration of our common nature and environment go hand in hand. During our reign we were banner leaders for that approach, and we made Nature Plan Denmark, an ecology plan, several animal welfare plans and a large growth plan for the food industry and found the necessary balance between business considerations and consideration of our nature and environment. At the same time, we found funding for our proposal. This is not the case with this proposal, which is just one of the problems. Right now, there is hardly any doubt that the police are under intense pressure, and it is therefore pointless to set up a special prosecutor in every police department without telling us where the resources are to come from. Just take Hjørring Municipality as an example, here the mayor fears local security because the police are not present locally. The department in Hirtshals is closed, and it creates insecurity locally. It is just one example which should make it very clear to the alternative that the police around the country do not have the resources to devote to a special prosecutor. Secondly, we lack a solid knowledge base on the need for such a system. I do not have any evidence that there are, in fact, such major problems in complying with and enforcing the laws mentioned by the Alternative. The motion for a resolution mentions nothing about that. For me, it seems that in some sense the alternative will act blindly, and it will not be possible when the police are already under pressure, and it is our security around the country that is at stake. I also think that the Minister explained the position of the case very well, and the prosecution is aware of exactly the issue which the motion for a resolution also raises. In addition, as I said, I lack a serious proposal for funding on this proposal. However, having said all that, let me nevertheless make it clear that the Socialists naturally want our laws on the environment and nature to be respected and enforced. We must also do what we can to meet international commitments and objectives. We just don't believe that a special prosecutor in the individual police circles is the remedy we need to use right now. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal. I should also like to say on behalf of the Radical Left rapporteur that the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205253	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205258	Thank you. In our comments on the proposal, we have seen good experience in Norway with a so-called 'Ecocrime' unit. That is where we propose that we might be inspired by a unit such as that, i.e. that a variant might be, that there may not be full competence in all circles, but that we have more unity that has a particular focus on it and can be used throughout the country. What does the rapporteur think of such a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205334	You can always be inspired by other countries in terms of using resources and in terms of making new initiatives, but you might also be inspired by other countries or by other parties to also find out about the funding for it. In the speech, it says what the whole essence of life implies, etc. I do not know whether to take it as an expression of where to find funding for the proposal, but it says that the essence may be rather curiosity and smell when peeling an orange. A little polemical, on my part, this is a bit of the essence of both this proposal and also of the submission speech, as is true of a number of the alternative's proposals. There are a lot of good intentions, but a serious proposal has to be made as to where resources are to be found. So yes, there are certainly interesting measures in this area, also in many other areas where we can look to other countries, but we need to find out how to find the resources for it if we are to have a serious debate on issues as important as our nature and environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205439	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205441	Now it's like this is in the petty section. Actually, sir... Jens Joel from the rapporteur's own party in 2014 had a question to the Minister of Justice about the cost of a special unit a la Ecokrim in Norway. Because if you figure that out, that's $460,000. per We have something in the order of 4.1 million. kr. every year to get this focus all over the country on dealing with environmental issues seriously. That's not the big amount. I think that when we talk about funding, that is something we will find out in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205525	Then you could turn it around and say that it reaches 4.1 million. kr. Why has it not been the endeavor to point this out? This is, like the other day, when we dealt with one of the 42 proposals contained in the Natural Package of the Alternative, which cost between 10 and 100 million. kr. It was a tax exemption for farmers on some particular land chosen, and I am not going to repeat it here. However, it is just a challenge that we come back to every time we consider one of the alternative's proposals from their natural package that funding must then be dealt with in the Finance Act. There might be an indication of where you would find the money, especially when you think it is not so much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205605	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205614	As today's last case, we are now considering a proposal for a special nature and environmental prosecutor with special competences in the field of nature and environmental crime in all police circles. The proposal is one of a series of proposals made in connection with a natural package of 42 specific proposals for a natural policy which the alternative has a desire for, I understand. In this proposal, it is desired that each police group has employed a special nature and environmental prosecutor with special competences. This special prosecutor in each police department must have the mandate and competence to deal with all matters relating to the environmental protection law, the Nature Conservation Act, land zone management, international obligations and objectives in the field of nature and the environment. As with the previous proposals put forward by the party, there is no provision for any kind of funding, except that in the submission of the proposal the following is written down: "In recognition of the essence of life we must therefore dare to give priority to nature politically and economically. That means we have to invest. But any crown invested will come tenfold again on the social and environmental bottom line. I do not understand what kind of money the Alternative will invest, because when the Alternative will give priority to nature, it must necessarily mean that you want to downgrade something else, and what is it? I don't know. In the Danish People's Party we are opposed to the proposal. We do not understand why it should be the natural and environmental environment, which must be given special priority in relation to all other forms of crime. That is not to say that we do not want to look after nature, because we do, but it is just not our impression that natural and environmental crime is a major problem in today's Denmark. The point is that all crime must of course be combated, including natural and environmental crime, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party are constantly working very hard to ensure that there are more police, since it is precisely the police who have to make sure that the criminals are pressed hard. However, as mentioned above, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205831	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524205840	I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. We in the Left do not disagree that environmental matters should be dealt with by people with special competences. As the Minister explained, almost all police circles, I was just saying, are organised so that special laws violations are dealt with separately by special prosecutors, by special departments. This is a way that individual police commissioners have chosen to distribute the work. I have no reason to believe that there is anything wrong with it, to put it that way. In fact, this is done in cooperation with the environmental authorities, which should not be forgotten. When there is an environmental matter, there are environmental authorities next door, just as there are people from the tax administration who are assisting in a tax case alongside the prosecutor. So it is not the case that the prosecutor stands as Palle alone in the world, although it may not be every day that he has an environmental matter. In addition, as the Minister for Justice mentioned, it is the case that courses on special subjects are regularly held, including in the field of the prosecution. And this also applies to environmental law, as the Minister said. I cannot rule out the possibility that the handling of environmental matters would be even better from the point of view of the prosecution if people were to deal solely with environmental matters, but I have to say that the same could apply to tax penalties, to competition cases, to cases of identity theft, and what do I know? In other words, we could work out a bureaucracy, even within the police, which would certainly slow down the work of the police in general and which, as my colleague from the Social Democratic Party put it, would also cost a great deal of money. And there's not a lot of money in this proposal. Several rapporteurs have already mentioned this. So the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210057	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210100	Thank you. As I also mentioned earlier, experience from Norway is that you can have a central unit in Norway called the ECONOMY which thus helps all police circles in a systematic way. We have also proposed this as a variant of the theme here. What does the rapporteur think of such a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210126	Well, I agree with the questioner that it is probably an excellent and also more effective solution than the one we have today. There is no doubt about that if one person or one department is dealing with this. But it is also an expensive affair to have specialist departments in everything, because it is not just environmental crime that I mentioned before. This would apply, where appropriate, to all kinds of special forms of law: competition law, IT law, imitation proceedings, tax cases, identity theft cases, and what do I know? There are plenty and lots of cases for which, if necessary, we need special offices. That would also be quite fine, and I understand that it is successful in Norway, but it therefore requires that we find the funding for it, and it is not just created by peeling an orange or what the proposal says.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210213	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210227	In the Enhedslisten we think there are some really, really good intentions behind this proposal. There is no doubt that complying with our environmental legislation and focusing on those who do not comply with them, not least, and trying to have them prosecuted, so that there is also a real risk of discovery when you squander our common nature, is really, really important. We also think that this is a very interesting proposal. I think we need some information to support it definitively. One is a kind of indication that there is a real problem today with the police and that there is a lack of competences today, which we should have preferred to have obtained. After all, we must be careful that we do not start to solve problems that are not there to say what it is. The second is, of course, also some kind of proof that this one, it must be said, will solve the problems we do not really know about yet. Congratulations to the idea, but no to the proposal, but an outstretched hand to continue working on the area. This is not something the Committee on Legal Affairs has been dealing with for a long, long time. It could be very healthy that we were asked some questions to the Minister for Justice. We can hear that there are already some units in some circles. What is the experience with this? Where might it be limping? How many cases are there and how many cases are brought before the courts? What is the experience compared to Norway, for example, as the alternative points out? If we try to ask some questions and gather some information, maybe we could identify a little more what the good steps would be to actually strengthen this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210433	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210441	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Of course, the Liberal Alliance agrees with the alternative and probably the rest of Parliament's parties that the police should have the competence to deal with all types of offences, even in the case of what the alternative here calls natural and environmental crime. Whether there is a need for a special prosecutor in each area of the police, I will leave the police and the Ministry of Justice to assess, because as long as competence is available as necessary, I am well satisfied. Nor am I aware that there should be a specific challenge to ensure that any offences in the natural and environmental fields are not dealt with or dealt with without proper professional competence. However, it is a clear priority for the Liberal Alliance that there is a uniform legal situation throughout the country, including in the case of possible violations of natural and environmental law, so that there is no situation where an illegal act is punished in one part of the country, while a similar action in another part of the country goes unnoticed. I note that the Minister stated in his speech that all police circles are organised in such a way that the more complex nature and environmental issues are dealt with in a specific section of the prosecution and in cooperation with the environmental authorities. Until a year ago I was myself and I have been for 12 years an environmental adviser in the private consulting engineering industry, and it is certainly my impression that both the environmental authorities and the prosecution authorities have the necessary competences to lift these cases. In general terms, the Liberal Alliance wants reforms of public administration and supervision of the nature and environment of all of us. We want to maintain the current high level of protection of nature and groundwater and environmental regulation in Denmark, but with the fact that, as I believe, I have also expressed in other situations here in Parliament's speaking chair, significant improvements in public oversight and administration. Among other things, it could. This is done by means of the debureaucratisation and outsourcing of supervisory tasks, procedures, etc., because, as I have said before, nature and the environment are not improved by being measured, weighed and administered. The structure is therefore present and, according to my experience, it also works as intended. In my view, therefore, there is no reason whatsoever to introduce more administration or any reason why the Folketing was going to interfere directly in how the task is carried out in the police circles. That is why the Liberal Alliance also rejects motion for a resolution B 122.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210757	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524210811	A former member of the Folketing of our party, who was involved in this area in the 1980s, has been kind enough to find an old motion for a resolution tabled by the SF in the parliamentary year 1984-85 on the strengthening of police and prosecutorial work in the field of supervision, investigation and indictment in environmental matters. I think that's a little funny. The SF is also very positive about the intention of this motion for a resolution. When you start like this, you usually end up saying that you will not support it, but I will not go as far as to say it. But there are some areas I think should be clarified a little more. But first a little about our general position on the proposal: big companies are today generally in dialogue with authorities, and they are also often positive about it. And at the other end of the scale there are so-called non-cases in generally small businesses, for example. livestock farming. In an analysis carried out in 2011, a number of examples of soft enforcement have been mentioned in the municipal proceedings. More than half of the interviewed case officers report that they often fail to address infringements in large-scale livestock cases, such as: because it is seen that livestock farmers react relentlessly if they are faced with a large number of repairs. It is known as not cases in the municipalities, i.e. cases where enforcement should have taken place, but where it has not happened. Therefore, we in the SF believe that it would be appropriate to identify the current extent of municipal non-cases and other lack of supervision and enforcement, so that it would not just be left to the police when the proper thing should be carried out by the municipality. And the minister in question, the Minister for the Environment, obviously did not have an overview when we discussed SF's motion for a resolution No. B 119, draft parliamentary resolution on the strengthening and knowledge of the monitoring of the Nature Conservation Act, the Planning Act, etc. It was only a week ago, I think, that we dealt with it in this House under the auspices of the environment, and we said that it is too bad that municipal enforcement that should take place often does not happen, even after clear decisions have been made in the Nature and Environment Complaints Board. In terms of competence, it belongs to the municipality. We also asked the Minister for the Environment at that time: when the Minister has the power to lift the index finger, when a clear decision has been made in the relevant board, why should one then be able to get away with not complying with it? Well, that's a problem with legal certainty. A very specific example is a man in North Jutland who has a lake that he rents out for fishing, etc., and who has been ochre contaminated to such an extent that not only the natural value in it but also renting it out for fishing. There has been a clear decision, but it is simply not being complied with. In such cases, it is also a problem that we, as legislators, hear some of these stories and see that clear decisions have been taken but that they are not being complied with. However, it is part of the municipal area, and that is why I also believe, as rapporteur on the environment, that we should not, of course, just be giving up, but that we should say: yes, it is there and it must be enforced. The competence is with the municipalities. Therefore, we also see the proposal in combination with SF's proposal that the competence that properly belongs to the municipality in relation to enforcement should also be implemented. Police circles have now become so strong in the prosecution function that one can actually specialise. We see no problem in that. The problem is in relation to the great pressure we see on the police these years. After all, a whole range of tasks are involved. As legal rapporteurs, we are constantly being presented with cases in which a large number of areas have not been sufficiently investigated. The police themselves are also sorry that there are areas that they cannot give the attention they want to give. The police often say that, of course, they find it unsatisfactory that there are some things they cannot promise, but which they would like to lift because there are simply no resources. They have an overwork hump of another world, almost, and that is a major discussion: what do we use the police resources that are for? Then you get reasonably far away from this motion for a resolution, but it is, at least in the area of justice, the big debate, how we use the police resources that are, even with the boost that has been made. So the SF is actually very positive about the intention and we would like to vote in favour of it. We think we need to find some resources to do this part of their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524211318	That sounds good. Thank you. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524211338	Thank you. The alternative came at the beginning of the year with a natural package of 42 proposals, and we have chosen to table four of them here as a motion for a resolution. This is the last of the series, which means that we need to strengthen enforcement work in environmental matters locally in police circles and in prosecutors' offices. Thank you for a brief and precise but comprehensive debate. I can see that there is no support for the proposal, but I have also heard that there is a great interest in looking at whether there is a problem. For the report on which we are building our proposal in particular is from 2011, and we hear from the Minister that some things should actually have happened, that something is on the way. We have heard about a course that some have taken, but we do not know what the evaluation of it is. That is why I look forward to being able to delve into some of these things in the committee's work and get some results from how these initiatives work. We need to identify the problem and we need to find out how much our proposals can solve the problem or whether we should be inspired by the Norwegian model instead. We need some statistics for different types of cases, and I also hear SF say that we need to look at the connection to the municipalities' enforcement of these cases. So thank you for a good debate, out of here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524211524	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160524211538	The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow [Wednesday, 25 May 2016,] kl. 13.00.
