ParlaMint-DK_20160429100002	The meeting is open. The Committee on Finance has delivered: Report and recommendation on the report on the state accounts submitted by the State auditors for the financial year 2014. B193). The report and the recommendation will be found in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429100029	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. Three members of the Folketing have tabled the proposal, which is why the Minister is given the floor first. He must also take the floor afterwards if he wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429100105	I can see that both Mrs Trine Bramsen and I are learning something here today. After all, our age is not every day, so we should also enjoy the little things. The draft law we are discussing today is aimed at repealing three specific provisions of the new Public Procurement Act. It is a proposal that the government cannot support. Firstly, this is because we do not agree with the content of the proposal. I will deal with that in more detail. Secondly, the new public law is based on a broad political agreement of which we are a part. I will also go into that in more detail. The three provisions proposed to be repealed by the draft law provide for all three exceptions to the right of access to documents. It concerns Articles 22, 24 and 27 of the Act. 2. The provisions go under the names of the calendar rule, the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary politician's rule. These are all three provisions introduced by the new Public Procurement Act. It was adopted in June 2013 and entered into force on 1 January of the following year. So the law has now worked for just over two years. The Act replaced the previous Public Procurement Act, which was from 1985. The new law is based on a political agreement reached between the then governing parties, the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, as well as the Left and the Conservative People's Party. The new law and the political agreement are based on a thorough preparatory work by the so-called Publicity Commission, which had been given the task of drafting a new public law. The purpose of the Commission's work was to strengthen the basic principle of openness and democratic control of the Public Service Act and to adapt it to today's circumstances. Particular attention was paid to developments in relation to the use of state companies, outsourcing, digitisation and changing cooperation structures in the administration. The proposal drawn up by the Publicity Commission was essentially the same as the one adopted by a large majority of the Folketing as the new Public Procurement Act. This law in many ways continued the structure and basic principles of the law previously in force. At the same time, however, there were a number of new rules. On a number of points, these are rules which extend the transparency of public administration, but there are also rules that restrict transparency in relation to the previous law in force. And I would like to highlight some of the changes that took place. The new law extended the scope of the law to include the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions as well as certain state-owned companies. A right to so-called data extraction has been introduced. This means that if requested, the authorities must compile data from their databases. There has also been an extension of the so-called extracurricular obligation, which now also includes so-called internal professional assessments. This means that there is access to the professional basis behind legislative proposals and other policy initiatives, even when they are only provided by internal documents. These are, therefore, important extensions of openness. It is perhaps a little overlooked part of the discourse that has been about the law said very under-decided. And that is just part of a series of enlargements that have taken place. However, it can be noted that the focus of the debate on the Public Procurement Act has not been on examining and clarifying the expansion of transparency that has taken place with the law. Both before and after the adoption of the law, the public debate focused solely on the restrictions on transparency which also took place. In this context, particular attention has been paid to the new provisions of § 27, no. 2 and Article 24, which is proposed to be repealed, i.e. the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary politician rule. Before I say anything more about these two rules, I would just like to say a few words about the so-called calendar rule, which is also proposed to be repealed. Under that provision, the right of access does not extend to proceedings relating to the execution of the calendar. The provision extends a provision of the law previously in force which exempted ministers' calendars for access to documents. This provision was based on a broad agreement from 2009 between the then government, the VK government, and the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left. Enlargement means that all calendars operated by public servants within the framework of the service are exempt from public access to documents and therefore not just those of ministers. The provision is based on a proposal from the Public Service Commission. In particular, the Commission drew up a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. emphasis on the concern for employees and the insecurity they might have about the request for access to their calendars. Moreover, some of the same considerations justify the fact that there is no right of access to individual staff cases. Then I go to the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary politician rule. And section 27, no. 2, provides for an exemption from access to documents exchanged between a minister and members of parliament in the context of certain political processes. Both provisions are designed to protect the political processes which are an indispensable part of the drafting of legislative proposals and other policy initiatives. The rules ensure that there is an opportunity to exchange proposals, views and ideas within a government with its own official capacity and in a negotiating situation with different parties, without there being any insight into them. What is basically insight into is the final result and the actual information and professional judgements that have led to the outcome, but not the preliminary proposals or exchanges that have been part of the process. When you hear the debate, you almost get the impression that the concern to protect the internal decision-making process in a government and in political negotiations is not a legitimate concern. One gets the impression that the best thing would be for discussions between ministers on the content of political initiatives and discussions between a government and the parties' rapporteurs on political agreements to take place in full transparency. I strongly disagree with that. There is hardly any organization, company, association or anything else that can work without internal discussions, which are not shared with others, about what to land on by solutions in different situations. This applies to political parties, to other associations, and also to governments. Especially if we are dealing with the state of democracy today and take part in the complaints about all the process that we are constantly seeing in the media, then we should really understand what I am talking about here. It is clear, however, that for a government there must be a very different degree of openness than for private associations and political parties. That's why we have a public law. But if we do not recognise at all that governments with their own official apparatus also need to be able to exchange ideas, views and proposals both internally and in political negotiations, without having a look at them, then the debate for me is running out of hand. It is not to deny that we can have different views about whether we have hit the right cut on this point with the new Public Service Act, of course, but there is a tendency to completely ignore the considerations behind the rules. There is nothing new in the fact that the internal and political decision-making process is protected by the Public Act. There is also a strong tendency to overlook this. When large headlines describe how often the ministerial service rule has been applied, it is often forgotten that a large proportion of what is exempted would probably also be exempted according to the rules previously in force. Thus, a number of documents could also be exempted from access to documents under the previous Public Procurement Act on the basis of internal and political decision-making. However, the regulation in the 1985 Act was somewhat more random and incoherent than it is today. Before the new Public Procurement Act, documents could thus be exchanged between ministries for legislation on access to documents, but not documents exchanged on notices or other policy initiatives. Documents exchanged between offices and departments of authorities could be exempted, but if documents were exchanged with other ministries, they were subject to public access to documents. Documents drawn up for ministerial meetings on public access to documents, although exchanged between ministries, could be exempted, but if the document had been drawn up for discussion at official level, it was subject to public access to documents. The new law lays down a more clear cut which focuses on the context in which a document is exchanged. And if the exchange takes place as part of a political decision-making process, the documents are not, as a general rule, subject to public access to documents. We can agree or disagree with that, but there is a need to take account of the internal and political decision-making process, and so there is nothing new about that. The proposal we are debating today is, in fact, a very good example of the trends in the debate on the Public Service Act, which I have mentioned, namely that the confidentiality of the political and internal decision-making process is not recognised at all and that it is overlooked that the ministerial service rule includes a number of types of documents which were also excluded from access under the previously applicable public disclosure law. The proposal lays down, inter alia: up to repeal section 24 and no action is taken to replace anything. It is therefore not intended to reinstate the provisions contained in the previous Public Procurement Act to protect the internal and political decision-making process. That's pretty remarkable. This means, inter alia, that if the proposal is adopted there will be access to documents drawn up and submitted to government committees. It may be documents exhibiting disagreements between the parties in a multiparty government or documents that expose a government's political-tactical considerations. It may be thought that there should be access to it, but if so, it is a violent break-up, with which the government strongly disagrees. I fully acknowledge, of course, that the provisions I have mentioned in particular have given rise to considerable debate and, as you know, it became part of the political agreement on the law that at the beginning of the new year, when the law has been in force for three years, an evaluation of section 24 and section 27, no. 2, in the new Public Procurement Act. In the first place, it follows from the agreement that the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament must be asked to state whether the practice of the authorities in accordance with the rules is in accordance with the rules. On the basis of the Ombudsman's opinion, the Ministry of Justice must draw up a report on the experience gained with the provisions and with the law, and whether there is a need for change. We shall be debating this statement here in the Folketing. I think it is very important that we have a thorough and consolidated work in this way to base our discussions on the Public Access Act. And in the circle of the parties behind the political agreement, we have started discussing the closer process of the evaluation process, and that circle must meet again shortly. So to sum up: the government is against the proposal, but we agree that we need to look at the experience of the new rules. There are traces of that. That process is currently being discussed between the parties to the agreement behind the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429101252	Then we thank the Minister. There are no brief comments, and that is why we can turn to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429101309	Thank you. The bill here is a proposal to amend the Public Act adopted by a majority of Parliament in June 2013. The draft law means that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act that the right of access does not include matters relating to calendaring, ministerial service and correspondence between ministers and members of parliament, i.e. the repeal of the law. And in practice this will mean that if we adopt the proposal here, we will go much further than the amendment in 2013. With the proposal here, even internal documents from e.g. K committee meetings and other documents can be published. We do not think this is appropriate. I would also like to note that we Social Democrats are part of a conciliation on the Public Service Act, which is why we cannot support the proposal here either. When we conclude an agreement, we reach an agreement and discuss any changes in a conciliation circle. We note that a meeting has been convened on the forthcoming review of the Public Procurement Act in the conciliation circle, and here we are discussing the content of the law. In those words, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429101429	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. This did not give rise to any brief comments either, and we can therefore move on immediately to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429101454	The proposal has been put forward in order to eliminate the restrictions on openness that have occurred in connection with the adoption of the Public Service Act, which was very appropriately nicknamed the blackout law, because that is really what it was to make it difficult for the free press to keep track of what is going on in the centre of power. I have the feeling of openness that it is a great advantage for the people to be able to keep up with as much as possible what is going on in the centre of power, because democracy and political processes are, in fact, something that must be done for the sake of the citizens by politicians elected by the people themselves. That is why it is only fair to give the press and thus the citizens the best opportunities to follow and control the rulers. It has been clear for a long time that several large cases had never come to the public's attention if the restrictions that were made when the rules were changed had been in force before, and that is therefore very serious. We therefore see the last public law as a step in the wrong direction. We want to go the other way, and that is why we are also helping to table the proposal together with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. The proposal we have put forward will move things in the right direction. It is about openness in relation to calendaring, the rule of ministerial service and the exchange of documents between ministers and members of parliament. I have also listened through the daily press to the fact that it is specifically these areas that the Conservatives, the SF and the Radicals want to change or completely abolish. It was parties that helped to pass the public law at the time, but it is no shame to become wiser. It's actually good enough if you realize yourself that you've done something you can't be proud of, and that's why you want to help change it. Now those parties have the chance to draw it in the right direction, and of course I hope they will take advantage of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429101643	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Britt Bager and I regret that the Left had to wait until this round, but it is Mrs Britt Bager from the Left who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429101659	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now concerns the amendment of a law that has been characterised by a great deal of public debate, both before, during and after the adoption of the law in 2013. However, the debate on the Public Procurement Act has focused primarily on the limitations of transparency resulting from the law. There has been a great deal of avoidance of highlighting the expansion of transparency which has also been brought about by the law, and this fact leads very well to the motivation of the proposers to put forward this bill. The Order wishes the proposers to ensure transparency and public access to the work of the rulers in order to ensure an understanding of the democratic political process and, in order to fulfil this wish, the proposers will repeal three provisions of the Public Act which entered into force on 1 January 2014. As you know, the Publicity Act is based on thorough work by the Publicity Commission and, as the Minister mentioned, the Publicity Commission's proposal was essentially the same as the proposal that was adopted on the new Publicity Act. And I guess the Publicity Act was passed by a broad majority in this Parliament. The three provisions which the proposers wish to repeal are Articles 22, 24 and 27, No. 2. The paragraphs are better known as the calendar rule, the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary rule, and in particular the two of these three provisions have been heavily debated here. I am of course thinking of the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary rule. Both provisions are designed to protect the processes which are an indispensable part of political work, because these two provisions help to ensure a confidential room for negotiation between officials, ministers and parliamentary politicians. It may be said that the provisions include the inter ventions which form part of the political process, and the question then arises as to whether these inter ventions affect the general public and the individual citizen. I believe that what matters to the citizen is that the final political outcome, because that is what will affect the daily lives of the citizen. It is dangerous to underestimate and neglect the importance of a confidential space, because it is essential that we have a confidential room for discussion that is of great importance to many people, but the need to have a confidential space is not therefore limited to politics. This need also applies to inter alia: companies and associations, and we need to ensure a balance in which, on the one hand, we take account of openness, while, on the other hand, we take into account the need for this confidential space in the political processes. Overall, we in the Left cannot support this proposal, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, the current public law is based on a broad political agreement, of which the Left is a part. It was an agreement that we reached under the previous government, and it is an agreement that we intend to stand by. As you know, it is part of this agreement that an evaluation should be initiated when the Public Service Act has been in place for three years. We are already in the middle of a series of conciliation meetings, and since we in the Left believe that we must legislate with thoroughness and thoughtfulness, we also believe, of course, that we should await the outcome of the evaluation launched in less than a year's time. Secondly, we simply do not agree with the substance of the proposal and, thirdly, we find it problematic, like the Minister, that the draft law envisages the complete repeal of Article 24 without replacing it with anything else. That is why we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429102106	Thank you to Mrs Britt Bager. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429102124	The process of the emergence of the Public Prosecution Act and the further progress is probably one of the most remarkable in recent political history in this country. It was, of course, the case that the work of the Commission was carried out, which resulted in report No. 1510 in 2009, leading to a new public law. That was the time when there was a coalition government of the Left and Conservatives in this country, and then the then government could not get support for exactly the three paragraphs that we are discussing here today. All parties outside the then VK government agreed that this was an incredibly bad idea. Then there was a parliamentary election in 2011. The electorate gave massive support to those parties that did not support restrictions on public access to information about what is happening in the space of power in the new Public Act. The Left won a single mandate. The Conservative People's Party lost 10 seats. There were therefore nine fewer mandates that, after the 2011 elections, supported the proposal for a new public law, and there was still a very broad majority against these restrictions on transparency. However, the three new government parties, the Social Democrats, the SF and the Radical Left chose to turn over a plate after the elections were over and the votes counted out. They therefore voted completely contrary to what they had said before the elections and introduced these restrictions on the transparency of the administration, reducing citizens' insight into what is happening in the machinery space of power. Apparently, when you get into the ministries, you ally with power. But fortunately it is also the case that when you get out again, that alliance will be loosened anew. That is why we can see that both the Radical Left and the SF seem to be on their way to new, better and traditional positions, and also the Conservative People's Party is out in a movement of the same kind. It must almost be assumed that most people expect that if we are not to have a Left Government, there will be a one-party socialist government, because only the two parties are now in favour of these restrictions. It was a lot about the party, but why is that? Because this is really the law of the system and not the law of the people, and it is therefore extremely important to stress that this is about the power and the system taking influence and insight from the citizens and increasing it to itself. The law passed under the then SRSF government also has good elements, as the Minister of Justice mentioned. I fully acknowledge that, but these three paragraphs are basically intended to protect the state from the citizens who live in it and who pay for the feast. This is a law that has been designed to protect the government from its own people. There have been great popular protests, for this is after all with a wording from the former radical leader, Margrethe Vestager, a real promise. Because you cannot, as a politician, help to ensure that you cannot implement the policy for which you cannot obtain a majority. But if you implement a policy other than that which you actually have a majority in favour of, as happened with this, then it is about what Margrethe Vestager called a genuine breach of promise. I think we should make this right, so I am extremely pleased to see the new positive signals from the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, and I really hope that the three parties will exert their influence. I shall be the last to say that you cannot learn more about individual political issues, so it is not really about that. This is about what we can come up with. And I really hope that if we do not get the current government to do so fully in terms of transparency, we will be able to hear today from all the rapporteurs of the three parties that they are prepared not to enter into an agreement with the Minister of Justice and the Left, but instead to terminate the conciliation so that, after the next elections, we can use the large majority that will probably be again, in order to gain more openness and more insight. It must be the case in a democratic society that citizens have the opportunity to find out what the real basis of decision-making is for the decisions that are being taken. It is the citizens who have to live with the consequences, and we believe that the citizens have the right to know what has happened and on what basis decisions are made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429102630	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429102648	Thank you. Today we are debating the Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party and the Alternative's proposals, backed by the Liberal Alliance, to amend the Public Act. And as has also been shown up here from the platform, the most central elements of the proposal are to repeal the three paragraphs, Section 22 on access to the calendars of ministers, and this has been made impossible by the current law, Section 24 on ministerial service, which removes the right of access to documents and information exchanged between ministries and which it can be assumed that one day the minister may need it, we believe that there should be transparency about • and § 27 (1). 2 which removes the right of access to documents exchanged between ministers and members of parliament which deal with legislation and other political processes. We'd like to have the three paragraphs rolled back. We believe that they are deeply problematic and together they constitute a comprehensive cover-up of the work of the ministers. As the previous rapporteur, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance, said, and I would say this in a little other words, this protects power and not openness. And we need to have transparency in our democracy so that we can see what is going on. It is therefore the clear position of the alternative that there is not enough publicity in the current public law. And it is, despite the fact that, as you know, the purpose of the Public Service Act is to ensure transparency among authorities, etc. with a view, in particular, to supporting freedom of information and expression, the participation of citizens in democracy, public control of public administration, the dissemination of information by the media to the public and, in particular, confidence in public administration. And this requires the possibility of access to the areas concerned, which have been removed by the current provisions. As I also said, the last time I was on the floor on this subject: as the Public Service Act now stands, it simply does not live up to its name or purpose. And in our opinion, this is more of a cover-up law. For the alternative, transparency is a core value and it is a value that we believe should be defining for the public law. The public's insight into the political system needs to be strengthened, for we are to have the Parliamentary Ombudsman concluded in December 2014 and now I quote: that section 24 includes very important parts of all politically-marked activities in the central administration. This is therefore a very substantial restriction on the right of access to documents. And I continue to quote: it is very, very much of the political activity in the ministries that is caught by both the one and the other rule. So we simply have to note that the disputed paragraphs, not least section 24, are actually rubber paragraphs, which are widely used for large and small. However, regardless of whether we believe that there should be more openness or more secrecy in the administration, I believe that there is one thing we can all agree on, and it is unfortunately that the distrust of us politicians in here at Christiansborg has grown great in recent years. I also believe that most of us can agree that this is a serious problem. And to that I must say that it is my clear conviction that the Public Service Act plays a key role in so many citizens distrusting us politicians and the political system. And that is why we should withdraw the paragraphs referred to as soon as possible, which did not exist in the previous Public Service Act. And that's why we, together with Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, supported by the Liberal Alliance, are presenting this bill. Now let's seize the chance we have here and now. With that said, I don't think we've come to the end of this bill. With the proposal, we are rolling back the worst parts of the Public Act of 2013, but I think there are several other areas in the law where public insight can be opened up if only there is a will to do so. And I hope that one day we can meet in a broad majority in the Folketing. But until then, I hope that we can at least agree to roll back the paragraphs that so many of us agree are detrimental to democratic debate and insight. For Danish society, a public law that complies with its name deserves a public law which gives real publicity to the public administration and which, of course, belongs to the population. Then, like the previous rapporteur, I am also pleased with the signals coming from Conservatives, SF and Radicals to soften the public law and I hope that efforts will be made to reach a new agreement as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103159	Thank you. I understand that the SF President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, had called us the transparency troika, and I understand that bothers those who see themselves as standing on the side of openness. But let it also be quite clear that the Radical Left defended this law. But we also had internal discussions and doubts. And let me also be honest and say that some of the criticisms and some of the scepticism and fears that were among the critics proved to be justified. That is also why we are pleased that a process is under way now that the Ombudsman is carrying out a review and evaluating how the Public Service Act works and that, in this context, we can make a new agreement. Because we are also convinced that the agreement that has been made has not hit the right thing. But it is a difficult balance and I think it is also appropriate to defend that balance. Because, as the Minister for Justice said, in a democracy in which we want to be as open as possible, it is legitimate to want a free space for discussions, ideas, reflections, strategy, tactics and negotiating positions. I think that if we do not give it the opportunity in the administration, it will be done in other ways, and then there are just no e-mails running back and forth. Then you meet instead of or drive papers around with bids etc. Because it is a reality that we all need the space. And that is what we have as parties. How would we think it was if the public were to sit like a fly on the wall or there was a turned-on webcam that sat and sent our political considerations to the public? That is why we believe that a balance should be found. It is not black and white, and there must be a balance between, on the one hand, as much openness as possible about professional assessments, information and the way the administration works, but, on the other hand, one, I think, legitimate freedom to discuss ideas, strategies, tactics and negotiating positions. However, I believe that the critics are right in saying that the free space may have become the rule instead of the exception, and we think that is also a problem. Or the problem is that in reality there is not a precise demarcation, but that it is very much up to the individual ministry how it is defined. All this simply to say that we think there is something to be done, and that is why we are very pleased with the process that has been initiated, where the Ombudsman makes an assessment and there is a political process in the circle of agreements with the Minister. We have high expectations of that process, and it is also crucial for us that changes will be made. However, we are also saying that we cannot support this bill because we are respecting that process and, of course, it will take a little more time than it would take to vote through this law. But it is because we do not believe that this amendment would be optimal either, because it would not protect the space that we think is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103533	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. It gave rise to a number of brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103544	I hardly know where to start. At any rate, I think it is nice that, if we are to put it that way, we have had a more appreciative dialogue with Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur. But I have a little difficulty finding out the substance of the statement, and it is not really meant as a provocation. I really believe that the biggest mistake you made was that you made it as a settlement and not as an agreement. That is why we are now at the mercy of the Left Government, in relation to what we can do. After all, the left is the only party to hold on to the agenda of secrecy, completely from wall to wall, from start to finish in this matter. What is it that the Radical Left wants to happen? Well, it's a little unclear to me. You have to have an evaluation, you have to see if you can do it a little differently. It's a little elastic in meter, or whatever to say. I would really like to know whether the Radical Left has a pain limit which would allow conciliation to be terminated from the next elections if results could not be achieved with the Left and the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103653	We have, and the pain limit is, of course, that we cannot agree on any changes. It'll be a pain limit. However, it is a process, a process of negotiation, and it would also be a little strange to negotiate with the Parliamentary Assembly, since we have initiated a process in the circle of agreements. However, it is clear that we have a pain threshold because, as I have said frankly and appreciatively, we do not believe that the balance has been struck here either, and we believe that we have the Ombudsman's word for this as well. The fact that it is administered so differently and unevenly is in itself the argument that the law has not hit completely optimally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103740	It is fair enough that the Radical Left says that their position may not be the compromise that the party is willing to make. What I am asking is, in fact, just what the position of the Radical Left is. In addition to saying that the critics have had some points and that it may be exciting and blablabla, I think it is quite clear what the Radical Left really thinks is the problem. Where is the position in the Radical Left? I ask you to know the compromise, I just ask you to know what the hell the Radical Left really means in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429103817	This can quickly become very, very concrete, but we all know the work of the ministries, and we know that there are processes where we ourselves also need to have a confidential dialogue with a minister and where ideas, ideas and reflections are being exchanged which we do not think are mature enough to reach the public because, as opinion-formers and decision-makers, we also need a free space to experiment in and reflect on where our balance lies. When these rules could be applied in this way with these consequences, is that something we can be involved in or not? In fact, I believe that this kind of reflection is something that we all really want to do, not for the open screen or the microphone, but that we have the peace to do so in peace and quiet. In fact, I do not think that is undemocratic. Well, I guess it's not every thought that has to come out to the public. Sometimes we also need to sit down and consider things carefully before they come out to the public. What I just think is the quite jumping point is that what we take as the basis for the consideration of information that professional assessments must also be given to the public. In other words, once we have taken a decision one day, we can say that it is on the basis of that information, they and the professional assessments. But we do not have to say that we were they and those considerations, whether we could now accept it or not, and whether we were afraid that this would have the consequences and the consequences and so on. However, the knowledge on which we base our deliberations deserves public access. They have not been given this public law, and we recognise that, and that is why we want to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104006	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104009	Thank you. The rapporteur refers to the evaluation to be made by the Ombudsman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ombudsman simply has to assess whether the Public Service Act has been complied with. So what does the rapporteur really expect to get out of that evaluation? Let us now say that the Ombudsman comes to the conclusion that it is fine, the public law has been observed. What, then, is it that the rapporteur includes that evaluation in the negotiations that the rapporteur has with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104040	We want, among other things. to look at the grey areas, as the Ombudsman has also pointed out, but as he has already done now, namely that the law is administered very differently. It may well be that we can see that there are some ministries which interpret the law more lightly and some others more tightly, and that we can then look at how we can put ourselves in line with some of the ministries that we think have hit the balance right. So I think that is what will be our starting point in these negotiations, namely to see how we can reduce the grey area, so that it becomes clearer what it is that the public should have access to and what they should not have access to and that it is not a very broad interpretation exercise in each ministry. It is therefore also outside the Ombudsman's mandate, but, on the other hand, it is a discussion that he himself has contributed to, because he has pointed to the diversity of the way in which the legislation is administered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104139	Before we go any further, I would like to call on the Left Party Group to keep its meeting quiet a little. It's very disturbing up here at the moment. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104150	Thank you. But the next question I actually have is when these negotiations start. Have they started, and when are they expected to be completed? So what is the process of this negotiation process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104204	In fact, I think the Minister has already explained this in his introductory remarks. After all, we have a meeting, as I understand it, very soon, and the law must be evaluated after three years, but as such we are already beginning to talk about how that process should proceed. And this is going to be a debate, but in the public spirit, I think that as soon as we know more, we owe it to the public to know how we intend to deal with it more closely. I think that would be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104239	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104242	I can't wait to hear about that. I think we are approaching the anniversary of the so-called transparency troika saying for the first time that it was too bad. I think there are a few parties who said that there would be motions for resolutions and all sorts of other things. My personal opinion is that it seems a very long process if we have not even now established further. What I would like to start by asking is something quite factual. For Mrs Zenia Stampe a bit paints a picture that we who tabled this bill and opposed the amendment of the Public Service Act want us to have some kind of live coverage or access to watch during all meetings. Then we could not, just for the sake of objectivity, have confirmed that before among other things. Radicals helped to adopt these restrictions on access to documents, were internal documents in the ministries exempt from access to documents, and that preparatory work was also excluded? This meant that when, as members of parliament, we had talks with the ministries, there was no continuous access to access, but only after the negotiations had been concluded. Isn't that right? That's how it was?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104405	That is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104409	I'm really glad. Then we can start by quitting pretending that there are some people in this room who have said that everyone should just be allowed to look at everything. Because none of us think so. And then I'd just like to ask you about it, as sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll tried to ask. Because Mrs. Zenia Stampe keeps saying that this may not have been hit right or something. And I think that's really nice and great praise for it. I just want to know what's best if it's not this. If Radical Left were to be able to make the cut, where would that cut actually be added? I am not saying that this is going to happen, I know that, because there is the compromise and the art of the possible. If, however, the Radical Left were to choose, would that be the cut on which the proposal here is about, or should it be one with a little less openness? Where would the radical left cut lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104507	I do not think I can answer that simply to be completely honest. Because I think that what would be important to us and which I think would provide a very good basis for decision would be to look at how the ministries have managed this differently. It may well be that we can then find a ministry which we believe has administered it with respect for openness, which is, of course, at the heart of this discussion. But I must honestly admit that I do not have an overview of how all the ministries have administered it. I know that some ministries have administered it in a way that has become the rule rather than the exception and that others have made it more the other side. I think that when we have to become concrete and not just speak legal language, perhaps it is just about looking at the different practices that exist and then looking at which one of the practices actually strikes the balance best. And then try to screw up the law in a way, so everybody ends up there. In fact, I think that would be an exciting process and a very concrete process. For, of course, there are values and principles and everything possible, but in reality I think it is ultimately a question of all these values, discussions and paragraphs being tested in relation to what is then excluded and what is made available to the public. In fact, I think that this discussion may be best conducted by taking practical examples. To be perfectly honest, I want to be safe about that, and I want to feel better dressed up to take the discussion from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104642	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104702	It is a problem when experience with the new Public Procurement Act, which we have seen described in many places, shows that minister service is being used far more than expected as a reason for restricting access to documents. It is a problem when experience with the new Public Act shows that the rule of parliamentary politics is applied in the same way more than expected. It must not be the case that there is a possibility of refusing access in general to large key parts of the political decision-making process. This weakens the basis of the public debate on the political decisions taken and makes it more difficult to take a critical look at politicians and officials. If, at the same time, the principle of publicity is not applied to a large enough extent and the response times remain far too long, there is, in my view, a solid basis for considering how we can do it much better. It is crucial for the SF that the public is widely informed about the decisions taken. When the public is kept out, we must openly acknowledge that the law is counterproductive. It is true, as the proposers write in the draft law, that we would like to see better opportunities to give insight into material where it is ministerial service, or in correspondence between ministers and members of parliament, than is the case today. I therefore agree a long way along the way with the authors of the diagnosis, but in the SF we have a different view of what medicine is needed, because SF is in the conciliation circle, and this is where we, together with the Radicals and Conservatives, are trying to influence the other parties. We already called this summer on the parties behind the conciliation to take a meeting to discuss the possibilities of strengthening the law. Subsequently, the three party chairmen from the SF, the Radicals and the Conservatives sent a joint letter to the Minister for Justice with a view to a renewed discussion in the conciliation circle. There is now a process under way in which we must also have another meeting as soon as possible. We believe that it is the right approach as a conciliation party, through political negotiations with the Minister of Justice and the other conciliation parties, to amend the law, including the paragraphs mentioned in this proposal. SF does not break a negotiated settlement, but we see that the experience with the Public Service Act is so bad that it requires some fundamental changes. We see the termination of the conciliation as a last resort and therefore we cannot support the proposal on this basis, although I largely share the authors' comments on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104930	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429104935	Thank you. I stumbled a little at the rapporteur's remark that the law did not work as intended. Was it really the SF's view that by excluding calendaring, ministerial service and documents exchanged between ministers and members of parliament from the public and access to documents, better insight into the political process would have been created, since the rapporteur now believes that the law has not worked as intended? Did the SF really believe that these provisions would provide better insight into the political process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105015	After all, in the wide-ranging debate leading up to the conclusion of the Public Service Act at that time, there were some things that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also mentioned, where it was said that this should actually be raised in relation to the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance of the balance. That was among other things. much shorter response times, it was more public, etc. These are some of the things where we say that it has not been able to balance with the new paragraphs that came in because more public opinion is used extremely differently in different places, and the response times are in many places too long. So the balance in relation to some of the new things that were concluded is not in our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105107	So it was with a completely open mind that the SF adopted these things, so it was well known that this would significantly impair public insight into the political decision-making process; one was well aware, when the law was passed, that the public was then prevented; one knew that otherwise normal principles of openness were being opposed to the democratic process when the law was passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105138	I would like to pay tribute to being lectured on democracy by DF, but I do not think it is a very clear picture that the rapporteur is giving here. There were major and extensive discussions in the SF prior to the Public Service Act. They were also pretty public, so I don't think anyone's nose went by. Among other things, there were: a point at our national meeting at the time this was up for discussion. So there was a rather public debate in the party about the Public Service Act and there was a big discussion about some of the issues that were in it. I do not think that we should take responsibility for what we have done, but we must also take responsibility for saying that we have implemented this and we think that there are some major, extensive problems with it. We want to help change it, and if we cannot do it within the conciliation circle, where it is natural to do it as the conciliation party... I hope most parties agree with it... you have to cancel the settlement prior to an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105243	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105245	I could in no way hold against Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen the procedural choices made by the then management of the SF. That would be unfair. So I really don't want to go into that at all. I have great respect for the process which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is rolling out and which the SF is planning to have in the coming years. I know that the SF will not vote for this proposal. That is actually why the Liberal Alliance is not a co-sponsor and we originally raised a question debate. So I have full respect for the processes. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said that she could sympathize with the comments on the bill. I just need to understand SF's position, so I'm absolutely sure. It's really that you agree with this? And then you'll try to see if you can find some compromise, and if you can't find one that's satisfactory, you'll cancel the settlement, and then you'll be free after the next election. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105346	I'm gonna take a look at my speech, because I actually agree with sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said I wasn't accurate enough. I agree with what is stated in the comments. I agree with the bill. I just cannot, as rapporteur for a party that respects conciliation, regardless of what you think of them, say that the SF will vote in favour of it. But the correct way to do that, I think, is that we are now taking part in the meetings that are being convened by the Minister for Justice and discussing us to this. And if we end up having to cancel the settlement, that's the way it's supposed to be. But I think the most respectful thing is to attend the meetings that are planned. I hope that was the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105432	Next is Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105437	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask you about the process of negotiations. What is SF's pain limit on how long it takes to change the Public Service Act to last?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105457	There's no pain limit. If we approach an election and nothing has happened or we have not achieved a result that we think is acceptable, we will terminate the conciliation. And if we don't, we'll have the time. I can't tell you how many meetings it's gonna take. Now we will be here very shortly to meet with the Minister of Justice again, and then we will see if we can get closer. I think I see some rather different views in this area, but it is in the conciliation circle that you meet about this. I can't tell you when it's gonna end, but I can tell you what SF's pain limit is. That's what I read in my speech. If we do not reach agreement on these specific paragraphs, then we must do what is most appropriate in terms of the way we work in here, and that is to terminate the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105552	Next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105557	Thank you. I very much acknowledge that SF both had difficulty in adopting the Public Act at that time and has taken a step in the right direction. I think that is important and good. We are rapidly approaching something similar to 90 mandates. If we just get all the trouble with the process out of the way, there's a light at the end of the tunnel. I think that is the most important thing. I can agree slightly with the questioner from the Danish People's Party that it may sometimes be a little much when the transparency troika pretends that it is not possible to foresee anything at all that it is simply a great surprise that there has been a great deal more secrecy. Much of this is not about how to interpret rules or apply rules in the ministries. A large part of it is just enormously concrete. This is true, for example. this section 27, which deals with access to documents previously exchanged in negotiations between parties and ministries. Can we see the basis for the negotiations or not? Therefore, I just want to hear SF: what exactly do you want to achieve in those negotiations, so that you can say that you are satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105723	In fact, I do not agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper. First of all, there's the whole process thing. If reference is made to the fact that you are part of a settlement, I think that in order for you to work together in here at all, regardless of what else we mean and feel and have opinions about, everything will slip if you do not respect it. I also think that it is quite all right to say that you stand elsewhere politically, but you have to follow the rules of the game. Otherwise, in fact, I think it is a major democratic problem. Secondly, there is Mrs Pernille Skipper's second comment. I would say that I agree in part. In some of this and that's also why we in the SF had a comprehensive discussion... it's the very paragraphs that are worth a discussion if I have to express myself that way. But a lot is also about the way it is used. The daily magazine Information and others who have done these studies say: This is a lot of rubber band in meter size. How do you interpret this in the individual ministries? And there's a big difference between how it's used. How is access to documents to be interpreted, particularly as regards public access to documents? I am critical of more public opinion because it is simply too much rubber band in meter size and up to what you yourself think is reasonable to grant access to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429105904	I must hurry to apologize if I sounded like it's a process thing to comply with a settlement. Of course, I don't think so. I would say that with regard to the result we are hoping for in the Enhedslisten, it is bothering that it is a conciliation and not an agreement, but I was trying to say something positive about the fact that we will probably be on the other side of all that. But all due respect for a settlement. I would also like to say that that is why we have made this bill so that it will not enter into force until three months after the next elections. Then you actually have the opportunity to vote for it, in other words continue in the conciliation, but vote for it here and show that you want something concrete. I understand that SF isn't going to do that. I'd like to know why. And then I try again: what is it concrete that SF wants to do? In addition to some interpretations, is there anything in the law that SF would like to change? For example:
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110011	I do not see why there is any doubt about that last point, because I confirmed in my reply to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that I fully agree with the authors of what the three parties have proposed to look at the three specific paragraphs. I totally agree. So that's what we want in the SF. There is no discussion about the substance. Then there is the fact that it is bothering because it is a settlement. I think so right now. But that is where you are, and we respect that right up to the time when you may not have got an agreement that meets these things. And then it is also quite common Christiansborgsk to terminate a settlement for entry into force after an election. But I cannot vote for anything when we are still a conciliation party and have some negotiations going on in the Ministry of Justice. I can't. I do not think it would be very good for the climate of cooperation over there either. I must hope that the best thing we can do is get to the place where the proposers and I want us to go. Regardless of that, we as a party are tied up until after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110138	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110141	I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur says that in this way the decisions that you have taken on this point are rejected. In other words, we are heading in the right direction, at least from our point of view. However, I have to ask a few questions, as the rapporteur says. The rapporteur says that we fully agree with the proposal. In all the things that have been put forward, one agrees. I get curious when the rapporteur says that in the conciliation circle you will look at these things so you will take it up. What is SF's limit to what you can be in, what you can see yourself in? Is this supposed to mean that if you can't get all the things that are in this proposal, you're going to cancel it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110224	I can only say what our starting point is right now. This is to exempt § 22, § 24 and § 27, no. 2. That is our starting point. I think it is a little fun to hear from DF that absolutes should be made in a negotiating situation. I can just say that this is our starting point. That is what we want. We're not gonna grade it. It's also a little hard to bend whether you want a paragraph taken out or not. It's kind of a either-or. But that is what we want and that is what we want to work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110302	Then I thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110317	I think we can all remember the great debate that took place when the current public law was adopted. We also had that debate in my own party. It was expressed in many places, among others. at our national meeting and in a lot of debates. But that must also be the case, since we are now living in a democracy and we are talking about openness and we, as politicians, must be ready to make up for ourselves, whether we have at some point made a decision that we want to change, that it must be allowed for any party to change its point of view. That is what we have done and which we announced on the occasion of our national meeting in September. The comments on the bill here quite correctly state that the Conservative People's Party has stated that we want to address paragraphs 22, 24 and 27, no. 2. because of course we believe that as a politician we should be able to tolerate being seen over our shoulders. To perhaps come Mrs. Pernille Skipper or Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll in advance I would like to say: what is our starting point, what are we talking about? That's what the bill says here. We agree with that. As most people know, we are part of a settlement in this area together with the SF and the Radical Left. We are invited to discuss matters in the conciliation circle. We have been in discussion. We're about to have another discussion. When we have an end to those discussions and we finally know what the conciliation parties want, what the government and the Socialists want to do, we will do our job. We hope that the evaluation will be brought forward. We also hope that it will be extended to cover the whole of the law, so that we have a wide, large, open-minded discussion about our entire public law and then see what we are doing in the future. Then it is clear that the ultimate consequence can, of course, be that we must terminate the conciliation procedure in the run-up to an election. So we agree with the bill. We are voting against it because our discussions with the government have not been completed, as we are part of a conciliation circle. But I would like to conclude by saying that in my view it is not a question of when
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110557	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110600	Thank you. There is a slight tendency among the transparency troika to prove that, in other words, a thorough internal discussion was taken before the wrong decision was taken. What I would like to ask is that if the government and the Socialists are now completely unshakable on these points, as they seem to be, then the Conservative People's Party will terminate the conciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110632	I do not think I have ever described myself as part of any transparency troika. I have simply realised that the Conservative People's Party has come to a different point of view than we had in the past. Now I do not want to anticipate what is going to happen in the negotiations, but as I said in my speech here, the consequences may ultimately be that we will have to terminate a pre-election settlement. That is not what I am hoping for, but it can be, because it is clear that it is almost in the question put by the questioner that we cannot move out of the place, we do not really have an alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110716	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429110735	I have to say that I think it is a little strange for outsiders to have a discussion, because there is a clear majority here in the Assembly to change the public law in force and to remove some of the provisions which were the most criticised when the new public law was passed. We asked experts and the Ministry what previous access to documents would look like if the current law applied, and the answers were that this would lead to a significant reduction in transparency. I would say that there is a slight difference between what the various parties from the so-called transparency troika, as some have at least called them, think should be changed. It sounds a bit like radicals are more the interpretation and application of the rules and not so much the rules themselves. SF and Conservatives are a little more clear in spit, compared to the fact that there is also legislation that needs to be changed. But I do not think it changes the fact that we could probably have obtained a majority if it were not because there were a lot of parties bound by a conciliation. We are among the proposers, and it is both SF, the Danish People's Party and the Alternative, very aware of the fact that this is a conciliation, and there is no such settlement in Christiansborg. This is something that can be denounced before an election, and then, on election day, the voters can take notice of the resignation in their reflections on where the intersection should be set, and then one is so free after the elections to enter into new settlements. It may seem a little christiansborgsk, I think, for people from outside, because that means that for years a majority in the Danish Parliament must go around with legislation that we do not like, but will have to anyway. Nevertheless, it is the rules of the game and, as several have pointed out, it is very good that they are respected. However, what distinguishes this bill from previous attempts, of which we have now gradually had some, in order to change the public law back to more openness, is the date of entry into force. It's very clear in section 2 of this bill that the law will enter into force three months after the next elections to the Folketing. This is such a rather unusual way of formulating legislative proposals and provisions for entry into force, but we have, of course, deliberately put it this way so that we could take account of precisely the three parties which, during this parliamentary term, are bound by a conciliation concluded in 2012. Summa summarum, the so-called transparency troika, could easily vote for this bill without breaking the compromise. I think you should do that too, but you shouldn't go around waiting for a year to clarify what the process should be like, and then you can change it again, but if you really mean it, you shouldn't go around waiting for a year to clarify what the process should be like, and then keep shooting solutions to excuses for conciliation. Here is, in fact, a proposal that you can vote for. I would like to point out that there have also been discussions on the substance of the law itself, i.e. whether this is something that should have been realised at the time of adoption, or whether it is almost a surprise that the law has had a different effect. I have to say that I believe in fact that all the rapporteurs have mentioned in their rapporteur's speech how violent a debate there was both in this Chamber and in the media and in all sorts of other places before the public law was passed. I think we had at least four consultations on that bill alone. We had two questions, and then we had debates in all the debates in the Chamber, and I think more than 200 questions were put to that law, and some of the answers were very clear and clear: no, there would be no access to access to information in relation to some information that had otherwise led to the disclosure of major scandal cases in the past. I just have to say that it is very difficult to jump on it if you try to say: No, God, how awful it was, it's being interpreted a little tight, isn't it? Shit, we couldn't have seen that. On the other hand, I have great respect for a change of attitude, and that is very, very good. There is also, it has to be said, a great deal of evidence suggesting that we could read in the newspaper Information, which has reviewed some of the consequences of the new Public Service Act, that some of the many excuses that were used at the time, and which the Minister also used today, do not hold true either. It might be: It may be that we shut down here, but in return we open up some other places. Access to public access is, in fact, only used in about every five cases. Another so-called improvement, which the Minister also mentioned today, that is to say that we should now have access to actinsight more quickly than we had in the past, has not been used either. In fact, after the new Public Access Act has been introduced, it takes longer to have access to public access to documents. Just to mention another figure, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, only 11 months after the law came into force, had dealt with 60 complaints about the application of the Public Service Act and had given criticism in half. So there is no doubt, I do not think there should have been any doubt, and there is something that has both shown how the centre of power, to say it as it is, has abused their powers, but also something that has harmed citizens or has damaged the power of the Folketing to adopt legislation with open eyes and knowledge of what the background is. Summa summarum, we're at least a collection of parties in here who have been fighting for a very long time to get this public law changed. I think we agree to continue, and hopefully we will soon have a majority to do something real rather than just talk about it. I would certainly hope that the Minister will either listen or that the conciliation will be terminated and that, moreover, it will be more than merely symbolic minor corrections, such as the one we have before us. tried to say that the Ombudsman had to evaluate the law, whereas of course the Ombudsman only had to assess whether it was being complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111539	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111542	I am rather sincere in my question, and it is certainly not meant as a polemic. Because somehow this is a bit of a mockery against us, the so-called transparency troika, which is not my idea to call us either. But I'm just a little curious to know the position of Enhedslisten exactly. I wasn't able to tell you exactly where our position was. But my question is whether the proposers themselves are really in a position to make their position perfectly clear. Of course, it may just be that the position is that if we get rid of paragraphs 22, 24 and 27, we are in the best of all worlds. That is just why I would like to ask whether that is the position, that is, if we have abolished the three paragraphs, we have struck the perfect balance of openness and also the possibility of discretion in the necessary or legitimate situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111647	First of all, I would like to say with sincerity that this is not really a teasing proposal. It is in fact our view that we could vote through this and that we could still maintain our conciliation. So it's actually an attempt to do something. Well, it doesn't matter. But yes, Enhedslisten believes that if we abolish the three paragraphs, we are at least really, really close to being a good place. Are there any other clauses in the new public law which, in fact, also restrict a little and which should be looked at at at least whether they have had too much effect? Yeah, I think there is. But there is no doubt that if we abolish paragraphs 22, 24 and 27, the Enhedslisten will at least have a party and relax with teasing proposals and to bother other parties with the Public Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111747	It's a bit of teasing, because you could say that if it was really the intention to help us, we'd probably have talked before. Because you could say it's a little pointless. If the aim is for us to get out of this conciliation and adopt the proposal that you have put forward, then the right approach would probably have been to ask us first. It is true that we have reached a settlement. One can say that it's just our interpretation of the properness of this work in here at Tinge, that when you make an agreement, you stand by it, and then you might try to correct the settlement if you don't quite think it works as intended. But the thing about saying yes to something and then three months later, because the pressure gets too big, that hill, we just don't think quite right. But then I'm just gonna have to ask you something, where maybe it's there anyway. Because I do not think we are where we say that all e-mails between MPs and ministers must always come to the public; all ministerial service must always come to the public; all calendars must always be open. That is, of course, where there may still be a disagreement and where we still have a different view of where the balance lies. That is why I just have to ask whether it is the view that, until the new public law came into force, there was nothing that the proposers, in this case Enhedslisten, could at least see would be better if there were no access to it for the public. Or is any restriction a step backwards? For then we may not be entirely in agreement, although we will also try to move in the direction that you are advocating.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429111930	Every restriction on the new public law is a step backwards. And I would like to mention one thing that we discussed very much when it was adopted. It was that there may be all sorts of allegations that you need space and everything else, but there is just not one of the many different justice ministers who have been through the discussion on the Public Service Act, which has in any way been able to document where there was a need to shut down, i.e. what the problem of the then openness was. Now I know that Mrs. Zenia Stampe can't answer, but then we can let it hang in the air and take it another time. What was the problem with openness in the past? Nothing. Possibly there were some ministers who felt bothered by being looked over their shoulders, but in the Enhedslisten we think it is an premise in a democracy. And only if one could have documented that there really is a problem here, there is some openness that went wrong, could we have talked about it. But no one has ever been able to do that. Mrs Zenia Stampe may be able to do so, but until then our starting point must be openness. Then you can discuss it if there is a problem because of that openness. I just haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112046	Before we finish, I must remind colleagues that it is one minute the first time and 30 seconds the second time. We're way above that line. But thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. We shall now proceed to the second round, and the Minister for Justice will have the floor first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112111	It may well be that Mrs Pernille Skipper does not think this is a teasing proposal and that the parties in question can only, and so on. However, the fact is that the settlement also includes a process, and it would look very strange if one started to change the process without • if I may say so, having terminated the settlement and there had been a parliamentary election. That would be unheard of. So, of course, it is a teasing proposal, no more and no less. What I think is perhaps the most interesting thing is that Mrs Pernille Skipper is standing up here on the platform to pay tribute to the legal situation that has existed in the past, but has actually put forward a proposal which is not near bringing us back to the former legal situation but which completely removes it. And that's something weird. That is to blind people, because what Mrs Pernille Skipper is doing here, together with the other proposers, is completely ignoring the protection that the democratic process has a deep need for. Instead, the authors of the motion, led by Mrs Pernille Skipper, are putting up for a total reality show, a total theatre, a place where procedural policy prevails, a place where possible discussions are made subject to great publicity, although they do not have a single reality in them. It may well be that some people want that kind of anarchical social debate in our society. I think we see plenty of it. I think there's too much of it. It is a quartrupation of the public space, where the only thing it is all about is what idea, loose thought or stark thought that has just been discussed yesterday in the Ministry, which can then fill 24 hours or 48 hours on TV 2 News, and that among other things. Enhedslisten can have his days in the sun. But is it a good thing for democracy? It's not. It is deeply damaging to the society we are building that we have that kind of process democracy. We've got plenty of it already. We don't need any more. That is why I am deeply concerned that we will not even take into account the need for some protection. We can easily discuss the degree of internal decision-making. I am to mine, not to say amazement, but rather to my surprise I fully agree with the analysis made by Mrs Zenia Stampe, which says: well, there is a concern that parties should be able to discuss something freely, without necessarily appearing on the front page of the Ekstra Bladet the next day, or that everyone should be involved in it. Why is there this focus on things that wouldn't have any effect on citizens, that must be filled in public spaces, which are already crowded? Is it not important that what we are discussing with each other and what citizens can relate to are the rules that actually affect them, instead of a lot, lots of other things that are basically indifferent? I think so. So I think we have here a skin-democracy debate that is not in order. I do not think we can point the finger at those who say that the democratic process also needs protection and say that it is blackmail and anti-democratic, and what do I know? I believe that there is a legitimate concern, and I believe that insisting that everything should be stated is the same as insisting that we all live in glass houses and walk around with no clothes on. It is quite the same thinking behind it, and I would say that my modesty is therefore too great. So the debate that is now under way does not come from the government to mean that even the rules that we had when Mrs Pernille Skipper thought there was a good legal situation are being abolished, and that is what this bill is proposing. It is the abolition of any real protection of the democratic process in the exchange of views between ministers and members of parliament and in the parliamentary debate. So I know some people here that I really expected more from. I have to say that. I cannot understand why we cannot see that the democratic process also needs protection. There are opposing considerations in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112539	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112544	The Minister of Justice cannot understand why there is such a big focus on this, it was said in the speech. Why? was asked. The answer is very simple: it is because of the way in which the Left and the Social Democrats have exercised power over recent decades. That's why there's such a big focus in the population on this. It is the fault of the Left and the Social Democrats that there is a great deal of interest in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112614	I do not think I quite heard the question here. I think it was more such an accusing j'accuse finger, which was directed at those parties which, as such, are the foundations of parliamentary work here in the Folketing, who take responsibility for themselves and who may know from within how it will in fact deeply damage the relationship between parliament and government if it all turns into talk and discussion about loose ideas, test balloons and discussions that have no reality in themselves. Do we really want even more of that on social media, on TV 2 News, in the media, between us? That's not how I know Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Thank God I'm having confidential discussions with Mr. Simpson. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, whom I really appreciate and which I consider important for the democratic reality of this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112717	When I make a brief comment, it is not necessarily to ask a question. It may then be because I have a comment, and my comment is that I do not believe that the old parties, which have been the backbone of the 20th century's people's regime, have understood what it is about to hit them and which I believe will hit even more in the years to come if the public concern is not taken seriously by the public concern about the fact that in 2011 the electorate voted massively in favour of those parties that did not want to tighten the Public Service Act and that a massive majority nevertheless chose to shut down public scrutiny. It is not an accusation in this case against the Minister's party, but it is an accusation against the way in which the old parties generally work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112814	I believe that public concern is much greater for people who have one attitude when they are in power and another when they are not sitting on it. And I believe that the public concern is even greater for the processocracy we are developing. Free me from that distance between the so-called old parties and the young parties. At least I don't think that Glistrup language is gonna take care of me. I believe that we are drowning the people in process debates instead of debates on the real political content that will affect the individual citizen, and I believe that this is dangerous for the way we perceive our democracy and the rule of the people. I can stand up for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112856	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112859	Now I also feel called upon to make a remark slashing a question because I think the Minister simplifies the debate we have now, I must admit. The minister makes it sound as if there's a discussion, and then it comes in TV 2 News the night or the day after. In other words, it is of course a question of the possibility of seeking access to documents. There must be an opportunity to seek access to some things in relation to some decisions that have been taken, and it is here that we think there should be an opportunity to apply. Yes, it is mostly a remark: I think the Minister is simplifying this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429112941	In fact, I think that calling the Public Service Act a law of secrecy and suggesting that we, who are at the target of democratic processes, are almost anti-democratic, is a simplistic ~ a very, very gross simplistic. And my basic view is that there is indeed an opportunity to seek access to documents. But when these are things that have no effect on the individual citizen, a discourse, an opportunity, an uncovering of where the political parties have to come together, why should we fill up with more about it? Why does there have to be more of that? There is so much noise in public space that I do not understand it, and we lack a real discussion about matter in politics, about what actually applies to the citizens of this country, and that is what I am calling for instead of what I have chosen to call a processocracy which may well be a simplistic presentation, but which I do not think leaves anything to be desired in relation to the allegation of blackout laws, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113043	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113045	Now I have never called the Minister of Justice an anti-Democrat, and I would just like to emphasise that. I believe that the Minister for Justice is a democrat, and I think it is quite appropriate in this Chamber to have different political views on concrete proposals, and that is what we two have, I do not know whether we can be said to be. Oh! However, I would like to read something from a note on the Ministry's comments on the Danish National Audit Office's criticism of legal information publishing laws, etc. online. According to the decision of the Ministry of Justice on public access to documents dated December 2014, it is a fax dated 18 years and it was exchanged at a time when there were concrete grounds to believe that the Minister of Justice had or would need the advice and assistance of the Ministry of Justice. I mean, it's an example of something that doesn't work as intended. And that's why I'm the co-author of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113135	To Mrs Josephine Fock: that is why we need an evaluation, and it is organized according to all the rules of art, compared with the fact that what this bill does is that it does not just return to the legal state we had before, where there was also protection of internal government documents, etc., but creates a legal state in which a document which is on the way in the government's Coordination Committee, which is an expression of the government's deep inner life, must also be published, and that is where I do not understand it. I do not understand the lack of compromise. I do not understand why, in this way, there is a real risk of creating a context in which all sorts of strange things are going on, in order to prevent even deep, deep internal documents from being published.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113224	The next brief remark is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113231	I think I will start by saying in the ground that there should be a lack of compromise. In any case, I will be quick to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten, and I am almost sure that I can speak on behalf of the other parties and proposers, perhaps even on behalf of Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's name when I say: A little bit more openness than this is good too, so some of it. So, finally, nothing about uncompromising here. In other words, we would like to talk about it if the Minister would in any way open up a discussion, a real discussion. Honestly, I was wondering, should you be provoked? But you obviously have to let yourself be provoked once in a while. So I think there is a lack of discussion of matter in democracy. Because we now have a Minister of Justice standing on the floor of the Parliament and saying that what does not so affect citizens, what has no effect on citizens, they do not need to know, we will take care of that in here. This is a markedly different starting point from what I think should be for a democracy. I believe that democracy as a starting point should be openness, as a starting point it should be the right of citizens to follow what the rulers are doing and, indeed, the Minister of Justice is in power. It means to me to see that there must of course be exceptions, no doubt about it; no live tweeting, no direct broadcasts from negotiations, completely agree that the starting point must be public, and I have not yet heard from the current Minister of Justice or many of the others what was the problem with the openness that was before, other than that it was perhaps a little annoying when you were caught in something sneaky.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113419	Mrs Pernille Skipper can, of course, put a parody on my point of view for my sake, but what I am just pointing out is that the legislative proposal that has been presented here does not go back to the old legal state. It goes much further than that. And what I am saying is that, of course, on the basis of openness, fortunately, that is what our democracy is based on, but there are also legitimate considerations to take, among others. in government processes and in debates between parliament and government, where things must be kept confidential. Our committee meetings are normally closed. Our discussions with each other over at my office are conducted in confidence. And that is just when I say that there are legitimate concerns in favour of the new regime represented by the version of the Public Service Act that we are dealing with now. Then it may well be that after the evaluation it will become apparent that some adjustments are needed. It could be. But I think it is legitimate, on the basis of openness, to say that the concern and the palaver, such as. a thundering tank planted in a place that never has a reality, can give, instead of focusing on the actual material content, on what is actually going to apply to the citizen, we should not push into the political process. I think there should be a legitimate space for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113555	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113558	Well, that's terrible nonsense. After all, no one has said that every meeting must be followed. Furthermore, the Minister for Justice knows very well that the committee meetings over here are the legislature and not the executive. That's something else entirely, so shouldn't we try to mix those things up? Nor is it the case that the public law previously in force made it impossible to think of a thought without it being put on TV 2 NEWS. However, this meant, for example, that it was possible to reveal that Claus Hjort Frederiksen, when he was Minister for Employment, had asked to make some figures look different, so that it fit the policy. It was revealed. It was also revealed that Mrs Lene Espersen, as Minister for Health, had provided incorrect information to the Folketing in connection with overpayment of private hospitals. You also apply to Mr. Bertel Haarder in connection with the stateless case. All these things were revealed under the then public law, but would not have come out under the law we have today, and that means that the ability of citizens to look at things has deteriorated. And the Minister of Justice has not yet defended why that should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113716	But that is actually nice, because now we have seen that our disagreement is actually a complete legal misconception of what the government is, on the part of Mrs Pernille Skipper. When Mrs Pernille Skipper says that this is the legislative power over here and that it is the executive power over there, it is nonsense. This is completely wrong. When you look at section 3 of the Constitution, you will see that it is quite clear that the legislative power consists of the Folketing and the government together. In this context, the government has as legitimate an interest in keeping its discussions confidential as the part of the legislative power represented by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113808	Thank you. I do not have any more inscribed on short remarks right now, but I understand that someone wants a second round, so I just need to be sure of that. Anybody want another round? I see that all the rapporteurs are shaking their heads, so there is no second round, and as no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429113903	The resolution highlights a very important area, namely the fight against paedophilia. Paedophilia is one of the most disgusting crimes, not least because the violation puts deep marks that will affect the individual child throughout his life. For the same reason, in my capacity as Minister of Justice, I have proposed several initiatives in this area. There are, among other things: a draft law on the extension of video interrogation of children, which means that children are spared more than in the past from testifying in court against their invaders. Parliament adopted the proposal in February. And there has been a legislative proposal on significantly tougher penalties for those who commit sexual abuse against children, and the proposal is currently being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. So the government is fully behind the fight against paedophilia. There should be no doubt about that. But we cannot support the motion for a resolution and the initiatives proposed. Before going into my position on the motion for a resolution, I would like to point out, for the record, that the proposal concerns the area of responsibility of several ministers. The general prevention and treatment of paedophiles is the responsibility of the Minister for Health and the elderly, while the children's house is the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Today I have to stick to what I know and where I, as Minister of Justice, have the overall responsibility. In other words, the treatment of convicted sex offenders during serving and the question of whether the Criminal Code Council should look at whether an independent criminal provision should be introduced on so-called grooming. During the committee's examination of the proposal, there will be ample opportunity to obtain answers to any questions which may be raised in the areas of the Minister for Health, the elderly or the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. We'll come all the way around. But let me start with the question of the treatment of convicted sex offenders. The motion for a resolution calls for a strengthening of the treatment of convicted sex offenders, both during the term of office and in the context of integration. I must start by stating that there is already a great deal of focus today on the treatment of sexual offenders in the Department of Criminal Services, both during serving and by parole. Sexual offenders who are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence are offered treatment during their stay under the so-called visitation scheme, where the treatment staff assess whether the sentenced person needs and motivation for treatment. In addition, in connection with parole of convicted sex offenders, the Department of Criminal Services may lay down treatment conditions. If the sentenced person does not accept those terms, parole as a general rule will be refused. In order to optimise the current treatment, a research project is currently being carried out on the treatment of convicted sex offenders in the Department of Criminal Services. The project consists of three sub-surveys, a study of the visitation of the convicted sex offenders offered treatment, a study of the treatment effect and a re-examination, i.e. a study of the reappearance of the victims into new crime. The project should make it possible to assess which factors are relevant to the outcome of the treatment, e.g. be the nature of crime or the social conditions of the perpetrator. It is also expected that it will be possible to assess whether there are some sex offenders who benefit more from certain types of treatment than others. This area is so important and complicated that, despite good intentions, we should not take premature decisions. My position is therefore that we should await the outcome of the research project, which is expected to be published towards the middle of next year. Then we are sure that the treatment of convicted sex offenders is organized in the most effective way. If we then turn to the part of the motion for a resolution on so-called grooming, it is up to the Criminal Code Council to consider whether a separate provision should be included in the criminal code. As you know, grooming is the manipulative process in which an adult builds a relationship of trust with a child in order to later commit abuse against the child. That is why a separate provision in the criminal code is also intriguing. Unfortunately, the problem is that it does not move anything into the real world. The fact is that grooming is already criminalised as an attempt to violate the criminal code on sexual abuse of a child. It can, for example, be done. is punished as an attempt at sexual intercourse with a child under 15 years of age or as an attempt to produce child pornography. Any preparatory action • any preparatory action may, in principle, be punishable, regardless of whether the act itself is harmless or unfit as a means of committing the crime. It can be punished as an attempt. The only thing that is required is that the perpetrator intends to commit the crime and that the perpetrator's ideas on this, at least to a certain extent, have been fleshed out in terms of the nature and execution of the crime. This means, therefore, in a more popular Danish language, that grooming can be punished as soon as an adult contacts a child with the intention of carrying out a sexual assault. It is not a condition for criminal liability that the person concerned has made contact with the child in a certain way, for example: via the Internet or through personal contact, nor is it a condition that the perpetrator has taken steps to meet the child in person. In fact, the very broad criminalisation of grooming in Danish law goes beyond both the EU directive on the sexual abuse of children and the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse.In other words, an independent provision in the criminal law on grooming will not help us in the fight against sexual abuse against children, and there is therefore no need for the Criminal Court to assess this. I am quite sure that the resolution has been borne by the best intentions of the proposers, but my answer is that the government has already made a determined effort to combat sexual abuse against children; there is a full awareness of it, and the penal code therefore includes these things. In this context, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114539	Thank you, Minister. There is one with a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114548	The Minister does not affect the part about prevention or the part about strengthening the children's houses and refers to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Health and the Elderly. I would like to start by saying that I think it is a little too bad. The minister must be able to represent the government in this context, but peace be with it. What I would like to ask, however, and which the Minister of Justice hopefully has an opinion on, but has not mentioned anything about, is whether there is a need for the competences of children's houses to also be targeted specifically by lawyers and judges who need further insight into precisely these grooming processes and some of the environments that the Minister of Justice is also talking about are quite, quite awful places where children are lured in so that they can be abused. Jurists and judges usually fall within the remit of the Ministry of Justice, so is there a need for the specific competences of the children's houses to be used more effectively by lawyers and judges?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114703	I do not want to go into the question of how institutions which are not my responsibility should be organized. I can say that judges and prosecutors are very much focused on these cases and know very well what is going on in this area. But the question of what initiatives should be taken in relation to an institution which does not belong to me must therefore be referred to the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114732	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114734	Then maybe I asked you wrong. I was actually wondering if there might be a need for even more knowledge about the things that the people who are lawyers, judges, prosecutors, who belong to the Justice Minister's district, need to know, from some who knew even more. That's kind of what I asked. So I was actually trying to do this with respect for the variety distribution, although this discussion is a little hampering that the government has not been able to put forward an overall position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114808	I don't know. In other words, it is not a tradition to speak out on the areas of other ministers. But what is good about this is that it can all be stated in committee, as is customary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114822	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's speech, and the first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429114838	With this motion for a resolution, the proposers will require the government to take the necessary initiatives during the current parliamentary year to ensure an effective fight against paedophilia and sexual abuse of children, including the spread of prevention and treatment efforts and the expansion of the use of children's houses. The government must also consider whether to include a so-called grooming clause in the criminal code. Let me start by making it absolutely clear that paedophilia is devastating to too many children and families. It is an extremely serious form of crime that we must combat by all means. We can therefore support a proposal which focuses on the fight against paedophiles, however, with a few comments. Firstly, the proposal here means that during the current parliamentary term the government will make a proposal. This is a very narrow time frame, not least bearing in mind that there are already a number of initiatives on the way which we need time to discuss in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the public. Therefore, it is appropriate to hear both the Minister and the proposers whether it is even realistic to carry out the work within such a short time frame. Secondly, I would like to comment on transnational action. We know, of course, that paedophiles are operating across borders, and that is why I will not fail to note the oddity of the fact that the very party that has now tabled this proposal combated effective transnational action against paedophiles when, in the December vote, we discussed the reservation of law, where a strong defence could be maintained. I would also like to point out that a great deal of what concerns paedophilia is happening on the Internet. That is why it will also be crucial for us to discuss in such an action plan the illegal activities that are taking place on the Internet, including how to monitor the deep criminal paedophiles who act on the Internet, how to put an end to their online dissemination and how to prosecute the people who distribute it here on the Internet. This will therefore be a condition for us to be able to support this proposal, because we see that paedophiles are expanding their networks to an ever greater extent on the Internet, and that is why it is crucial to get this part in. With these comments, I would like to say that, if we can negotiate on a more specific basis on the points I have mentioned here, we will be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115141	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115154	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten has put forward a number of exciting initiatives rather than the Folketing, which I shall try to address in the following. There is the question of prevention and treatment, there is the question of the use of children's houses, and then there is the whole consideration in relation to a grooming provision which one wants to see the Criminal Code. There's no doubt that this kind of crime is one of the most vicious things anyone can ever do to other people. It is one of the most disgusting things that exists at all. That is also why we are pleased that the government has launched a series of initiatives in this area, and we are happy to contribute to them. Everything that moves in the right direction in this area has the full support and sympathy of the Danish People's Party. In relation to what the proposal proposes on prevention, I think there are exciting thoughts about the campaign that has been launched, which should therefore go further to the population and prevent people who may be paedophiles from committing this terrible crime at all, so that they can be stopped before they destroy children's lives. In relation to treatment, where I know that something is going on in the Ministry and elsewhere in relation to looking at the treatment offers given to paedophiles, it also raises a large number of questions. In the Danish People's Party, we would like to see these people punished much harder, among other things. With the use of medical castration, you are much harder on that front, so once people have crossed the border, it is hard on the forward, so you go in and prevent them from repeating this horrible type of crime. The whole question of children's houses also seems to me to be the basis for raising a whole series of questions on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We will do the same, because it is our impression that it is easy to get some synergies out of drawing more on the children's houses and the skills and experience that may lie there. Then there is the whole question of a grooming clause, and we in the Danish People's Party have dealt with this very much in the past. We support that part of it. We think it's exciting and something you need to learn more about. And that is something that must be done under the auspices of the Committee on Legal Affairs now that we are getting the matter across. We are certainly not opposed to the part of what is involved in allowing the Criminal Court to look at a grooming clause. I can only say that we are looking forward to working on the proposal. This is what we are doing when it comes to all the good initiatives that can take the right direction in combating paedophilia and helping the victims further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115452	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115503	There is no doubt that paedophilia and child abuse are totally unacceptable. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees on that. These are nasty acts which have incalculable consequences for both the victim and the relatives, and that is why I can easily understand the authors' thoughts behind this motion for a resolution, namely that we must protect the children in the best possible way. Precisely because violations against children are such a serious issue, the Minister, as he himself mentioned in his speech, has already put forward two legislative proposals that affect this area; a proposal that focuses on the wider use of video interrogation of children; and a proposal that focuses on tougher penalties for people who commit sexual abuse against children. Although the Left fully understands the reasons for the motion, for a number of reasons we cannot support the specific content, at least not as it stands here. Firstly, there is already a major focus on the treatment of sexual offenders in criminal services. Among other things: sex offenders who are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence are offered treatment under the visitation system while serving. Secondly, in connection with parole of convicted sex offenders, criminal services have the possibility of setting terms and procedures. So there are several options available when we talk about the treatment of sex offenders. In order to optimise the current treatment, a research project has also been launched focusing on the treatment of convicted sex offenders in criminal services. In relation to the proposal for an independent grooming clause in the Penal Code, the Left is fully in line with the Minister. Such a provision would not have a real effect, and therefore it does not make sense to ask for the judgment of the Criminal Court. As I said, the motivation behind the proposal here is very sympathetic, but the proposed initiatives overlap with either the existing possibilities of criminal justice, or they are without real effect. We do not support the resolution as it stands today, but we are open to looking at a possible reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs. And I should like to say from the Conservatives that they do not support the proposal as it stands either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115737	There are two brief comments at the moment and the first is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115745	Thank you. The government's two proposals are aimed at the situation in which the abuse has, however, our success criterion must be to prevent the abuse from taking place at all. It is not so much a criticism of the proposals that have been made, because they may be fine enough, but we are missing that I agree with the proposers, Enhedslisten, in a little more focus on how we prevent them from happening at all, in other words preventing the abuses. And that is what I am reading into the proposal, so that is where we can do even more. So does the rapporteur not agree that the otherwise fine proposals made by the government are aimed at such a situation where the abuse has taken place?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115837	I fully agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. What I think we may not entirely agree on is whether today's penal code allows a person to be punished even when he or she makes contact with a child. Because I believe that the penal code, as it stands today, already provides for the possibility of punishing a person, immediately making contact with the child. I also believe that the grooming clause proposed by the authors of the motion for a resolution is superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115911	There is no other brief comment, but there is one more questioner. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429115919	Thank you. I would actually like to follow up Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's question. I understand that the Left is opposed to a special grooming clause. That is then understood, and it is not possible to vote in favour of the proposal; it is also okay. There are quite a few other elements to this motion for a resolution, which is precisely a preventive one, and indeed many others, which relate to people who have not already been convicted, which is what Mrs Britt Baker spoke about in her speech. So I would like to know what the position of the Left is, that more preventive action is being taken, i.e. among other things. a nationwide campaign which informs us about treatment options, so that we can get hold of potential abusers before they commit abuse, telephone counselling and also, in particular, this strengthening of children's houses, which we very much want to see, because there are so many positive experiences with children's houses already, so that hopefully it can be used further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120029	In the Left, we are always interested in discussing what is best to prevent, and that is whether it is telephone counselling or a strengthening of children's houses. I am also aware that there are some challenges in relation to the children's houses between the municipalities and the Ministry of Social Affairs. We can discuss that. Whether it should be under the auspices of the Committee on Legal Affairs or whether it should be in the Committee on Social Affairs, then we must take it, but we are in favour of strengthening prevention efforts too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120101	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120104	I think that sounds really nice. In relation to the specific proposals in the motion for a resolution, can the Left lift the veil of just one of them, or are they all being welcomed so that we can conclude that if it had not been for the proposal for the grooming clause, the Left would have voted in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120124	As I also said in my speech, it is primarily the grooming clause that clashes with the Left's beliefs. I think that, instead of standing here and taking up all the proposals, we should put it forward for an open debate, both in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Health, because I think that this issue deserves careful consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120146	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the series of rapporteurs is from the Liberal Alliance. It's sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120159	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for focusing on an important area, namely the fight against paedophilia and, indeed, paedophile abuse, which is what this is all about: preventing children from being subjected to sexual abuse. In fact, we must go further and ensure that they are protected against violent abuse. Attacking children is one of the most horrible things there is. This is one of the things that the Liberal Alliance considers to be most punishable at all. Although the length of the penalty or the severity of it has already been looked at during the lifetime of this government, we think that we should really go even harder on the part of punishing those who commit the abuse. I am not so sure whether to do so by inserting a so-called grooming clause into the penal code. When I hear the Minister for Justice's answer, I think it seems that we can already do just that. Perhaps the whole of this is a wish to constantly include provisions in the criminal code which already exist, an epidemic which is a little in the Folketing in general. In fact, I think it is going to set up a commission to look at a new penal code instead of constantly getting these strange knob shots, sometimes not at all knob shots, but just repetitions of what is already there, just said in a new way. Then there is the issue of prevention, and it is actually true that this is also important. If you are going to find the money for it, my proposal will be, and it is of course a little regrettable to Enhedslisten, that you may be trying to find some money in autumn's pool negotiations, because it will probably be there, it will be easier to provide funds to do something preventative if you are going to do something about it. It is not to bother Enhedslisten, who is not part of the movement pool, but it is actually the only circle that you can join if you like, so it is of course also an opportunity for Enhedslisten. But I think that is where it must lie if we are to have a realistic opportunity to do something about it in the practical world. So we may even look at some of the proposals, perhaps even steal some of them, but we will see that in the autumn. But in politics there is no form of copyright, and you will usually be happy if things are implemented, no matter which parties vote for or make agreements. So I would say that we are not going to vote in favour of this proposal, but we think that more prevention and stricter penalties are both good things in this way. However, I think that this is going to happen in some places other than through this proposal, regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120447	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120506	Thank you. We are now discussing the draft parliamentary resolution on the fight against paedophilia, and the proposers want to oblige the government to take the necessary initiatives during the current parliamentary year to ensure an effective fight against paedophilia and sexual abuse of children, including the spread of prevention and treatment efforts and the expansion of the use of children's houses. The proposers also want the government to consider whether to include a so-called grooming clause in the criminal code. There should be no doubt that the Alternative shares the Enhedslisten's view that punishment alone has hardly the great effect of reducing crime and other measures need to be taken. We need to rethink our penal system in a different and new way. That is why we also support the aim of this motion for a resolution on the general strengthening of prevention and treatment efforts and the strengthening of the five regional children's houses. As a starting point, we are also open to the grooming clause, but want to clarify exactly what is intended. That is also what I am seeing the authors of the proposals themselves, and I think that we have also heard the Minister for Justice explaining here what we can actually do today, and we would very much like to have the opportunity to clarify that point. We also agree that a change in the criminal code on this requires a thorough assessment, and for us it is absolutely crucial that we do not end up in a situation where any interaction with children is suspicious, because it is important that it does not have that consequence. So, as a starting point, we are in favour of the proposal, but want some of the things I have mentioned here to be clarified in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429120709	Thank you. We are in fact very much in line with the alternative. We also think that the focus of the resolution is very good. It is, of course, about how we strengthen prevention and treatment, but frankly, I have a tiny bit of doubt about the fact that I am not polemical about what is actually in the motion for a resolution, because the text itself is simply about the government being required to make an action plan, you could call it, with the necessary steps and then consider such a grooming clause, but when you go down in the comments, there are a number of very concrete ideas to which I would actually like to make a few comments. I do not believe that anyone can be opposed to the general dissemination of knowledge among relevant professional groups on counselling and treatment options. It is also good to strengthen treatment during service and in connection with integration. However, we have just heard the Minister say that there are good opportunities for that today, but it may be that they are not good enough. That is why, of course, we are open to looking at it. But I am so more in doubt when we come to some of the other ideas. I mean, a telephone line where you can call in and say you're thinking about committing a paedophile assault. Can you imagine a telephone line with confidentiality, where you will know about potential paedophilia, but then you will not be able to go ahead with it? In any case, I think that this actually creates some pretty big dilemmas. There is also the idea of a broad information campaign for the general public. Are we not afraid that it really creates insecurity, that is, even more of the insecurity which, unfortunately, is one of the reasons why it is sometimes a little difficult for men to go into trade with children? Because that's also a problem. There is a little more distrust, distrust of male educators than female educators. At any rate, we know that many male educators say that sometimes it can be seen a little problematic that you often look at men differently. Can they change a diaper alone, or should there be an open door, so the female educator also looks in etc. etc.? This is an area where there are plenty of dilemmas. I therefore do not necessarily believe that the two specific proposals are the way forward. Then there is the strengthening of children's houses, in other words making it compulsory to use them. That may sound very reasonable. As far as grooming is concerned, I read the proposal in such a way that the government is actually asked to ask the Criminal Court to assess the appropriateness and possible design of a grooming clause. In other words, all in all, I have a little difficulty in seeing what the substance of this is. In fact, I stand here thinking out loud because we have not decided whether we are for or against, because it depends a little on the committee procedure and the answers that we are getting now, but one could imagine that it would be enough for the government to bring together some of the initiatives that have already been taken, or should all of these points be included, etc. etc.? So I cannot say 'yes' or 'no' right now, but I can say that we are in fact strengthening the idea or the idea of better treatment, more prevention, but we are not quite sure of all the concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429121053	There was no brief comment anyway. I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429121111	Sexual abuse of children is one of the worst things we can all think of in here. I do not think there is any difference in the view of the various parties in this area. The Minister of Justice has been very concerned about looking at punishment, and that is something that we in the SF support. But it cannot stand alone, and that is why I welcome the Enhedslisten's proposal. The success criterion must be to prevent these attacks on children. Sexual abuse and sexual abuse of children are something that is going to affect them for the rest of their lives. I don't think any of us can imagine the influence it has on those kids and what happens to their future lives. I would therefore like to say that, overall, the SF supports the intention of this motion for a resolution. I think there are some things that need to be drilled into committee work. This also applies to some of the points raised by the Minister of Justice. Basically, however, we think it is very positive that we are not only talking about punishment but talking about how we can ensure that in the future there will be far fewer children exposed to sexual abuse and rape. Unfortunately, this is all too often, and it seems in the debate as if what we all agree on, namely that it is a terrible attack, stands in the way of looking at concrete solutions to how we can prevent some of these perpetrators from doing their atrocities to satisfy their desire. There has been a lot of focus on locking them up, they need to be neutered medically, as the DF said, but the ultimate thing must be that we together make legislation that prevents that from happening at all. That does not mean that it should not be severely punished. We have also proposed this by the SF. But we have to make sure that as few children as possible are exposed to this because it is one of the most devastating things. Basically, we agree with the intention of the resolution and we would very much like to discuss the very specific issues of the involvement of information campaigns and children's houses in greater detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429121403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments right now, so I shall give the floor to the rapporteur for the proposers. That is because the Left has spoken for the Conservatives. I could see it had to be repeated. We have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429121428	I'm sorry I messed up in order. This proposal is about putting forward a legislative package, which makes it possible to combat sexual abuse against children more effectively and more widely, in other words, so-called paedophilia. In the Enhedslisten, like many of the other rapporteurs who have been up here, we recognise the government's efforts through higher penalties, but it is not something that can stand alone. Effective action against paedophilia should be directed towards those platforms and the arenas where paedophiles house and find victims, namely the Internet, and it should also focus more on preventive action, in other words, on getting hold of and treating potential offenders before they become offenders and before they attack children in a terrible way. That is why we have proposed that we focus more on prevention, better conditions for victims and also extend the possibilities of prosecuting paedophiles on the Internet. In terms of prevention and treatment, our proposal involves several things. The Minister of Justice has dealt with the part about the convicted, and I understand from the Minister of Justice that this is a work that is already being looked at, in other words how to improve the treatment and integration of paedophiles. I think that sounds really, really exciting, and I am very happy to hear that this is something you take seriously. Because even if the treatment options do exist, they are not necessarily good or perfect or incorrigible, and that is precisely what was intended by this proposal, namely to develop some of the treatment options. That is also one of the things we have heard from interest groups in this area, so that is what we would very much like. Then we would very much like to strengthen the children's houses. The children's houses already operate regionally very well today. It is such a child-friendly environment, and I think there are several rapporteurs who have been out there to see the houses. It is a child-friendly environment that can create a safer framework for investigations and interrogations in cases where the victim is a small child, who has been through something very, very difficult and which needs to be dealt with properly. They have existed since 2013, are very important, and they have built up many skills and knowledge that can spare children unnecessary traumas and re-raumatisations during such an investigation process, and therefore we hope that we can use the children's houses and their competences even more. For example: It should be the case that authorities, social workers and police have a duty to include the competences of children's houses in individual cases, as well as in the State administration when sexual abuse occurs in social matters. We also believe that children's houses should be opened up for personal inquiries, so that children and adults can get to know and advise, and we also believe that their competences can be better used also for lawyers and judges in the criminal system, especially in relation to these so-called grooming processes. I can then understand from the Minister for Justice that he will look at that idea, and we will follow that up in committee as well. Then we will also come to the final part, which is about a special grooming clause in the criminal code. I must hurry to say that what we are proposing is that we ask the Criminal Code Council to look at the need so that we do not just put in a provision of this kind, because we know that this is something that needs to be considered. This is, as the Minister of Justice says, something which is already technically contained in the criminal code, but which is certainly not used very much, and if you get a special grooming clause in it, there will therefore be something more focus and opportunity for, I believe, potentially to prosecute earlier. Precisely because it is a potential that we see and is not a completely exact knowledge we have, we would like the main lawyers on the Criminal Code to look at whether they could make the prosecution's work and prosecution easier. I count so small and I would say that there is certainly not a majority against the proposal. This is always a good starting point for committee work. I would just like to say the last thing to Mrs Zenia Stampe, who just asked about this with anonymous telephone counselling. I think, and that is actually one of the things we hear from, among other things. Save the child that we sometimes miss the potential offenders who haven't lived it out yet, which hasn't offended yet, and if we can get hold of them by creating a room where they can actually say some things and get help not to live it out, it will potentially spare some children. The idea isn't our own. It comes from, among other things. Save the child, and I actually think it would make it possible to get more and get more people into treatment before they commit abuse. At least that is the idea, although I fully understand that there are also some dilemmas in such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122027	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one with brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122048	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122115	With the motion for a resolution it is proposed to introduce an internal arrangement into the Folketing... sorry, should you not say anything first about the relationship to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122134	Sorry, I just need to clarify something. According to the agenda, we are going to this proposal now, but how the Minister has screwed up his speech, I am not interfering with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122146	No, no, I just understood that the President would make a comment in relation to the consideration of the constitutionality of this proposal. But it must be a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122154	Yeah, it looks like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122156	The motion for a resolution is intended to introduce an internal system in the Folketing, under which citizens have the right to be put forward, dealt with and voted on citizen-driven proposals in the Folketing. Citizen-driven proposals refer to a specific motion for a resolution which collects signatures from at least 50,000 citizens who support the proposal and who have the right to vote in Parliament. The citizen-driven proposal must be made by a member of parliament, as a starting point for the President of the Folketing. At the same time, it is clear that the system must be designed in such a way as to respect the provisions of the Constitution on the right to submit proposals to the Folketing. The motion for a resolution does not contain any further information on how the proposed system is to be organized. The reason for the motion for a resolution is that, according to the proposers, citizens today have only limited opportunity to express their views on legislative proposals through consultation processes. Although the resolution does not impose anything on the government, but concerns an internal regime in the Folketing, I have chosen to take the floor today. When I do so, it is firstly because it is not every day that we in this House have the opportunity to debate some of the fundamental features of the way in which we have organised our people's rule, namely that Denmark is a representative democracy. Secondly, the motion for a resolution, depending on how it is to be understood, raises some important questions in relation to the constitution's arrangement that it is Members of Parliament and Ministers who may table motions for resolutions. It is clear from paragraphs 21 and 41 of the Constitution and that members of the Folketing are bound solely by their beliefs and by no provision of their electorate, according to Article 56 of the Constitution. The government, like the proposers, attaches great importance to democracy and citizen involvement. As you know, Denmark is a representative democracy. In other words, the citizens choose some representatives to make the current political decisions. This is the case in the Folketing, in the Regional Council and in the Municipal Council. In this way, we elected representatives are representatives of the views and opinions of the ordinary citizen. That is why we are also in a time-limited period, after which we must again be tested at elections, so that the electorate can judge whether we have done well enough. When we, as elected representatives, make ongoing political decisions, it reflects the very essence of representative democracy and the fact that during the parliamentary term we are bound by nothing but our own conviction of what is best for Denmark. Of course, this does not mean that we cannot involve the citizens in our work, for example. look for inspiration on what suggestions we wish to make in the Folketing. For my part, I attach great importance to the dialogue with the citizens. It's both when I meet them face-to-face, when I write with them on social media, and when they address my ministry. What matters to me is not whether a particular case can happen to collect 50,000 signatures. I would rather go ahead with a good idea that a citizen gives me by, for example. To write with me on Facebook than with a bad idea that 100,000 citizens are behind. In this respect, I would like to emphasise that the opportunities for getting in touch with and inspiring a member of parliament have hardly been better in recent times. A survey carried out a few years ago showed that 169 out of 179 members of the Danish Parliament are on Facebook I understand that Mr. Henning Hyllested the other day also came to many are also on Twitter, and all members of parliament's contact details are on the Danish Parliament's website. On the website you can also keep track of what is going to happen in the Folketing, and on the consultation portal you can find all the legislative proposals sent in consultation. That is why the government simply cannot recognise the picture in the motion for a resolution that citizens have only limited opportunity to express their views on legislative proposals through the consultation process. Furthermore, if the proposed system is put in place, we risk sending a signal that we are not listening to the individual citizen. This will enable the resolution to be a step backwards for open and inclusive representative democracy, as we know it today. It's a risk the government doesn't think we should take. The government, on the other hand, believes that we should stick to the open and inclusive representative democracy that we have today. In addition to these more fundamental and political considerations which I have just mentioned, it is my concern that, during the discussion of the motion for a resolution, the Folketing is fully aware that, depending on how it is to be understood, the proposal may raise some important issues in relation to the constitution, and that was the reason for my confusion, because I had actually expected that the President would make some observations on this. It follows directly from the Constitution that the population elects the members of the Folketing, who then, together with the government, have the legislative power. In this context, the Constitution also provides for the submission of legislative and resolution proposals in the Folketing. The rule of the Constitution means that proposals for laws and resolutions can only be made by government ministers and by members of the Folketing, and it is up to us as ministers and members of parliament which proposals we wish to make. Members of Parliament are bound solely by their beliefs. Although the observations on the motion for a resolution state that the proposed system of citizens' motion for a resolution must respect the provisions of the Constitution, it is therefore very difficult to see how the proposed system would be in line with the Constitution when it appears from the wording of the motion for a resolution that it is about a right If, contrary to what it says, the proposal is to be understood as wanting to develop an idea bank in which citizens can make proposals and express their support for the proposal and from which members of the public can choose on a voluntary basis to proceed with a proposal, the proposal does not raise questions in relation to the basic law. The question then is whether it is such a system that all the parties responsible for the resolution have seen before themselves. And isn't it to blind the public to refer to such a scheme as a right to have cases dealt with by the Folketing? I think it is. As the government sees it, it is already largely the citizens, interest groups and companies of the country that set the agenda for political debates and initiatives. And it is their reality that we are trying to translate into politics. At the same time, the Constitution sets the framework for our governance and for the submission of legislative proposals and resolutions in the Folketing. The Constitution also states that members of parliament are bound by their beliefs. This framework is not immediately seen as being capable of incorporating a system of citizen-driven motions, which has a right Against this background the government cannot support the resolution. I can also say that I have also sent a letter to the President of the Danish Parliament explaining the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429122940	Thank you, Minister. I am sorry if there is any confusion about the fact that some things had been said about the Constitution here in the Chair. But it is true that it is quoted by the Minister who can table real motions for resolutions in this Chamber. However, there is nothing in which the Bureau has decided that it should be repeated here. There may be a little confusion over another resolution which deals with some other issues. I'm sorry if there's been a misunderstanding. But now we have heard the Minister, and there are two comments for short notice. The first is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123021	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I have listened with great interest and have also read the letter sent by the Minister to the President of Parliament. As the Minister rightly says, it is precisely described in the comments that this should not in any way be at odds with the constitution. And then I got a little curious when I heard the Minister's speech. It is as if it is the words of the motion for a resolution that make it impossible for the government to support it. So if there were a different wording to allow citizens to table a resolution, would that be enough for the government to support this proposal so that we can test new ways of getting citizens involved in democracy? It's not a substitute for everything you know. We do not ask anyone to close either facebook profiles or forbid anyone to talk to voters. We are asking for yet another tool to have a healthy and living democracy. So is it only the word right that means that the government does not want to support it, or how do I understand the Minister's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123128	For me, it is important that we abide by the Constitution. So I'm the Attorney General of the country. I feel very much about the responsibility that lies with me, which is why I must, of course, share Parliament when I believe that one operates on the edge or in violation of the constitution. Secondly, we come to the question of whether, in principle, I would support a proposal with the material content that a certain number of citizens should be entitled to have a case dealt with in the Folketing. It actually draws threads back to the debate on the public law we had earlier. I am very, very concerned about the one-off orientation of politics on a higher and higher scale. I do not share the alternative's view that it is positive that if you can raise a folk storm in a certain context, it can also come in here and add to the pressure that is, moreover, on the legislative process so that it becomes more and more fragmented, as I have seen policy over the 20 years I have been dealing with it, and I find that very boring. So I will be very sceptical about such a proposal because I think we need much more overall in the approach we have to the political discourse. And in these years, I am increasingly concerned about the fragmentation of the political situation I am experiencing. I understand the wish, but I think the tool is wrong. I believe that citizens have a great many opportunities to get involved, and I believe that they have opportunities to influence. I don't want to put on any numbers. I think it is a good thing that one citizen can have one proposal dealt with if only one member of parliament so wishes. And because of among other things... social media are in fact greater than it has been for many years. So the answer to the question has to be no after this long round. I am sorry it took some time, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123321	It's okay. This is quite a matter of principle, so I am a little liberal with the seconds, whereas in other cases we have to be very strict with the seconds. In any case, it would be desirable for the President to be liberal in all matters). The last thing I'm gonna choose to overhear. Here is the second brief comment by the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123337	I can assure the Minister for Justice that the alternative is also very concerned with respect for the Constitution. And that is precisely why the comments on the motion for a resolution have been formulated as they are. But then I would like to talk about something that the Minister said when he spoke about a folk storm and something about individual cases. What we are talking about here is a popular debate and, in order to collect 50,000 signatures, what we can see from other countries such as England and Finland requires a broad public debate and broad popular support to discuss something before it can come in here and be discussed further. So I'm really a little upset about those words, that is, it's gonna be something with individual cases and folk storms. If this can help push the public debate even further, it must be one of the things I hear the Minister of Justice also asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123432	I simply do not think we share the analysis of society. But that is probably one of the reasons why the alternative has emerged as a party, that is to say that you as a party have a different social analysis than that, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I feel a deep concern about the fact that representative democracy is actually waning over these years. And I think it is because there is too much pressure on the institutions, especially in relation to the individual case and the fragmented one. And I am concerned that 50,000 people in a facebook storm can obtain the right to receive a parliamentary treatment, for example. a conviction, a rape or a given case in some unpleasant context. I am concerned about this because the pressure on our legislative process is already very hard. But, well, it's a fair disagreement. That's just the way it is, and I might just have a chance for the representative government of the people that I love very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123536	The next short remark is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123541	First of all, thank you for the open and nuanced approach to the debate. I think it's really important that we have it at this level. It should also show that we are precisely aware of our responsibility as representative people's government. Secondly, thank you for the very clear announcement that the government and the Minister for Justice are so concerned about complying with the Constitution. I hope that this applies in all contexts and in all the debates we are taking part in at the moment. We are also in the Radical Left, just as we are so concerned about strengthening our democracy, which is a representative democracy. We pay tribute to that and we will continue to do so. That is why, like the previous questioner, I am concerned about what the Minister actually says very well, namely that the disagreement may be due to a different social analysis. However, in the case of the Radical Left, we think we have learned something from the Finnish experience. We have looked very much at them and are concerned that we are actually having a more qualified debate. I'm sorry, I'm stalling. Hopefully the President will also give a few seconds here, but this is the part about the Minister knowing as well as I do that 50,000 signatures today can get a lot of members of parliament to do something. It's real. Much less will have to be done before MEPs are able to table motions for resolutions. I pay tribute to that, too. It is part of free, equal and open access to democracy. However, we want a second entrance... an extra entrance... which qualifies that room a little bit more... and in this way hopefully qualifies the democratic participation. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123731	I believe, however, that, in the case of the Radical Left, such a common thread goes through it, even if we go back to the constitutional procedure in 1953, the position on referendums, etc., which, after all, has been a reflection of the policy of the Radical Left for decades. The former radical president, Niels Helveg Petersen, dealt with this matter a great deal. And it is actually well known that there is a constructive disagreement about that relationship. So I have full respect for the Radical Left Act. I am just worried that we are living at a time when we see a bleeding of the political parties, less support for what helps to provide the people who are going to sit in here with something other than an anemic political culture, unfortunately and increasingly. I very much doubt that it will be strengthened by spreading something more that I perceive will be more simple-minded. That's my analysis, and that's the government's analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123834	The questioner for a brief comment and it must be short now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123836	It's gonna be short. Well, thank you, because this is actually historic. We are withdrawing threads and the Minister is absolutely right that it is very fundamental for the Radical Left, and these things have grown in our gardens. And so we have always, and we continue to do so, judged it against how we strengthen citizens' opportunities and how we also qualify democracy. I share the Minister's analysis of the dangers, but I do not agree with the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123907	I wish all political debates could take place this way. I'm afraid they don't. But I think it is very important that we have these discussions over these years, because there is a change that can turn into something unpleasant. I can disagree so much that I have to say that I am warning against this proposal. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123931	There are currently three more short comments, and the first is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429123936	Thank you. I just noticed that the Minister said in his speech that he would much rather put forward a good idea from one citizen on Facebook than a bad idea from 100,000 citizens who had made a petition. Then that is what I want to hear from the Minister who is assessing what is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124005	It is, of course, based on the Constitution. It follows from section 56 of the Constitution, where it is quite simply said that Mrs Susanne Eilersen and I are individually bound by only one thing: that is our conscience. And that is where this proposal goes in and regulates something that is sacred to me in the constitution, namely that we must be unbound by everything else. This is, in fact, a regulation that I consider to be if not in the letter, so in spirit it is contrary to the relevant paragraph of the Constitution. That's what I mean by what you can now use by expressions... good idea... bad idea... etc. The conscience of each member of parliament defines whether something should be treated or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124052	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124054	But if, in a small society quite far away from Christiansborg, you have some things of a social nature that you think you want to carry in and discuss in here, and then you turn to the minister, and then the minister does not think it is a good idea, then you do not have the opportunity to have the debate on these social issues that you are now struggling with in a single community or in a part of the country or whatever it might be. Then you're cut off from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124131	I completely disagree with that. I grew up in such a small community myself. I have had the strange experience of living both in one of the country's smallest municipalities with 4,600 inhabitants, in a small village with 600 people, and living and being mayor of the country's largest. What we can do in this context is to approach our locally elected MP, who is, moreover, very present in the smaller communities and has a significant role to play, and to get the person concerned to raise the issue in question if it is going to go in here to see it as a debate. There is, of course, plenty of room for debate in public today. So again: It is, after all, a question of how you see it, i.e. what a social view you have in that context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124213	The next short remark is Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124217	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for taking the debate seriously. In fact, I think it is a very exciting debate to follow, and I can see that the Minister really thinks so, even though he does not agree with the resolution. It is quite true that people today can easily get in touch with each other very easily, even if they can get in touch with each other, but it is also true that there is a great deal of difference between those who have the most access to influence and contact with the members of parliament. I think we have to admit that too. I take note of the fact that the Minister makes this a either-or, i.e. either the representative government of the people or the citizens-run initiatives. Could it not be imagined that, on the contrary, it would create synergy and that they would be able to complement each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124314	It may well be that I am alone with that concern, but I have a very, very great pressure on the institutions of democracy in these years and a fragmentation, in other words a single case orientation, which I find deeply worrying for democracy and the people's regime. That is why I think that in the 1970s, when Bertel Haarder wrote a book which I believe was called the tyranny of the institutions, I would write a book with an opposite title today, that is, that we actually need to protect our institutions, because we live in a very, very fast and very changeable and very moody time. There I doubt that such a proposal would be beneficial. It may happen, it will be one day, but I think at the moment, where we still haven't learned a proper culture for our dealings with social media etc., not, that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124409	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124411	It is just as specific: what is the concrete thing that the Minister fears could happen with such a proposal? And if the Minister were to wear the second hat, could there be any advantage in the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124426	I fear, for example, that we shall be able to do so. Parliamentary debates, suggestions, etc., such as: It is therefore independent judges who sit and make decisions on the basis of the law of the Danish Parliament and decide on what is up and down in the matter. I am concerned that this will be a brutalisation of public debate, to put it bluntly. And I'm very, very concerned about this issue in these years. Maybe I see ghosts. I don't know. I don't know if I can see any benefits from it. I am deeply rooted in the representative government of the people. But again: There are some who use that expression old parties and all that stuff. I think we have an amazing folk regime that is alive but under pressure, and I want to protect it from that pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124538	The last one that has been written for short remarks right now is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124544	Thank you. I also think it is a really exciting debate, and so I agree with the Minister for Justice with regard to protecting our institutions and our representative democracy. I do not think, then, that the way to do this is in fact by trying to close ourselves to ourselves, which we also discussed a little during the previous bill on the Public Service Act. I think it is important to point out that in Finland there have been eight cases that have been debated and the first was on homomarriage. And this proposal also proposes a sunset clause, that is to say that we will have to review it in two years' time to see if it works. I really find it hard to understand this fear that we are involving democracy too much. After all, it will still be a debate that is being held in this Chamber, and it is not the idea that the Folketing is suddenly being turned into the judiciary. So, doesn't the Minister see that it could be another tool to make this hall even more alive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124657	Well, I actually think I've said quite clearly what I think about it. I see our legislative processes as being under pressure in advance. And I find that we have less and less discussion about matter, about what actually has an effect on citizens, rather than on process and gambling. And if you combine that view with the view of individual concern, I am not sure that this is beneficial to democracy. There are, after all, two sides of the people's depths: there is both that where one is represented and where one gets things sorted out together, but there are also unpleasant aspects of majority rule which can easily be deformed. And I'm worried about that these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124759	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124801	Well, I can really agree with that, I just think that if we shut ourselves down again, as I would call it, and do not respect the people's depth, then it will help to increase the mistrust that is to us in here. And when I say respect the people's depth, it is not to follow it, but then it is to take the time to listen and take the people's depths seriously and have a discussion in this Chamber about how to deal with it. And we, as politicians, should be able to deal with this by taking a serious discussion of what is moving in the people's depths, because otherwise there will be divisions. Once again, I just want to point out that we have put in a sunset clause, that is to say that the Folketing will have to look at this proposal in two years' time to see if it works, and then it may not work. It may be that the Minister is right. However, I would very much ask that the Minister's party reconsider this, in that this could become another tool to keep our democracy going all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124904	I find that what Mrs Josephine Fock says is what I do when I'm out meeting people when I seem political. I was out yesterday at a debate meeting in Søllerød with 90 people. It was a really nice meeting with a good debate and a good discussion. I write on my facebook wall, I discuss with people sometimes not always so constructive, because there is also a great anger out there, which is clear. So I actually experience that I am doing the things that Mrs Josephine Fock describes. And I therefore believe, as I have said, that this will mean that we will have even more individual cases on the table of the Folketing, and I do not think that is the credo of the parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429124950	Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the series of rapporteurs, and I would like to appeal to the general rules of the game to be observed, even though we have been very liberal in the dialogue between Members of the Parliament and the Minister. However, it is a resolution which is not one of the typical ones, and that is why, as acting President, I have allowed myself to look at it a little liberally with the seconds. But I think we should now come back to the general rules on speaking time, also because we have a long day ahead of us. Here's to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125023	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the motion for a resolution and to look at citizens' access to and understanding of representative democracy. It is a fundamental premise for everyone here at Christiansborg to ensure that barriers to access to the people's rule are broken down and prejudice levelled. After all, we have a great many good tools to ensure that citizens can be heard. The fact that citizens actually have good reason to want to be heard can be made sure by simply looking at the many citizens' requests that flow daily into the parliament's many committees and directly to the party groups and individual members of parliament, and it is fortunately not only interest groups and professional opinion-formers who come up with suggestions, ideas, problems and experiences. But so do ordinary citizens, and when I meet a citizen of SuperBrugsen in Gråsten, or I get a message on Facebook or Twitter, it may be that this is exactly what ends up being a law change or an adjustment of the rules in the end; and I shall not take up the time of Members of Things to give my specific examples, because I am sure that you all have similar experiences. Democracy does not mean, of course, that all people must always feel obliged to keep up with the political work. Many people would find it a little too boring, but that means that all people must always have the opportunity to get in touch with the political level when the situation so requires. We Social Democrats believe that it is essential that the framework for dialogue and access be debated at regular intervals, both to ensure that the democratic tools work as they should, but also to ensure that citizens know what opportunities there are, and that is why I am in fact a little saddened to read the specific comments of the resolution before us. For, unfortunately, the purpose of this motion for a resolution is stated here, and I quote: 'Today, citizens have only limited opportunity to express their views on legislative proposals through the consultation process'. I am sorry because it is not true, but I am even more sorry because, on the other hand, I am very sure that there are a lot of citizens who are experiencing it exactly that way, and we therefore have a fundamental need to spread a knowledge that, for example, you can go to the delegation in the Folketing and that everyone has the right to write a hearing answer, not only in the context of legislative proposals, but also in the context of announcement proposals, and they are publicly available. In the public debate, I have heard the authors argue with quite different motivations from those contained in the comments. I think that is more sympathetic, and I would therefore like to point out this contradiction here. Can we not imagine taking political initiatives to improve citizens' access to proposals and to participate in the democratic process? Yes, we can certainly do that, and let me give you a low-practical example from the time of the SR government. Here the government took the initiative to establish a forum where citizens, businesses and interest groups could make proposals for administrative facilitations. It was not necessary for the proposers to describe the issues in a profoundly legal way, because it took the secretariat of the Forum off instead, and it simply came in with concrete proposals for hundreds. When the forum reached the point that a proposal was a good idea, it was described and passed on to the government, which, moreover, has what is called a follow-up or explanation principle, which simply means that a great many of these concrete administrative reliefs, some by legislation and others, are implemented in other ways. It's low-practical, and it's actually pretty effective. The present proposal presents a number of challenges. There are a number of challenges in relation to the constitution that the Minister has mentioned, and I naturally expect this to be examined in more detail during the committee procedure. But there are also other challenges that are pressing on. Firstly, we Socialists have a genuine concern that, if there are not at least 50 000 citizens who sign a sensible proposal, then such a built-in logic or expectation that a proposal will no longer be valid will arise. And secondly, as a citizen, as it is today, if you have a good idea for a proposal, you can present it to just one member of the Folketing and get him to take it up. We do not want to end up with a real weakening of democracy and the ability of citizens to make their voice heard in this way. Social democracy cannot support the resolution, but we would very much like to take part in a debate on how to strengthen democratic participation. For that debate is needed and, as several people have also mentioned in the debate, it is good that we can conduct it today on a really sober basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125529	There is, for the time being, one with a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125533	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for his reflection on this motion for a resolution. I'd like to ask about something. It sounds as if it is very fatal; if this is introduced, we will forget everything else we do. We will forget that we are talking to citizens, that we are writing with citizens on social media, that citizens can come in and get to committee and so on. What we are talking about here is an experiment in which we will try something similar to what has been done in other countries with great success. We will then also try it out here and see it as a complement to everything else we do in the people's regime in here, in order to have a good contact and a good dialogue between citizens and us. So does the rapporteur not see that this is another step towards creating a more vibrant, representative democracy? Can the rapporteur clarify this by saying that it will replace everything else? We're not gonna forget everything else because we're going through with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125637	My point was, in fact, that there are a lot of things that there are many of the tools available today, I am quite convinced that very few citizens know about, and that is a pity, because that possibility is precisely there, i.e. among other things. in order to be able to take part in hearings; not only in consultations on legislation, but also the incredibly many announcements that will affect ordinary citizens in their everyday lives. I wish that many more people knew about those purposes. Then there is a specific challenge in relation to the constitution as to whether this is constitutionally acceptable. That, of course, means a great deal to us Social Democrats, I have to stress that. However, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that a proper sunset clause has been introduced, which must be understood in such a way that, if this is adopted, it must also be evaluated and that it will automatically run out if it is not chosen to renew it. I should therefore like to pay tribute to that element.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125740	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125742	I can then reassure the Social Democrats that the alternative is also very attentive to the Constitution and that we are constantly observing the Constitution, as I also emphasised to the Minister. I think we're all in here. It really sounds fantastic if this proposal can be voted through today and at the same time help to be a catalyst for all the other opportunities being refreshed for people, so that we have a much more vibrant and involving representative democracy. So you can also take the chance when you come with new ones, let's call it experiments, experiments on how we work, to get all the old things refreshed. So I just hope that the Socialists will reconsider their position here and say: well, it is actually a good idea to try something new, let us try to see what this can provide as an additional tool for greater involvement in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125836	We are certainly not opposed to trying out new things, on the contrary. I think I was also told in my rapporteur's speech that we ourselves have been together with the Radical Left to take various initiatives to make it possible to get good ideas and proposals to the citizens even better. I am glad that the rapporteur highlights the desire to respect the Constitution, but what is of course the big question is whether it is also in the spirit of the Constitution, i.e. whether it is also the intention of the Constitution. Here, for example, I would like to make a few comments. mention section 42. 6, which is working on whether there are any things that are not suitable to be worked with, for example. referendums. But that may be one of the things that we will be able to clarify in the next committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125928	There has just been one more for a brief comment. Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429125932	Thank you. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur mentioned the other very good tools that we have, among other things. This whole hearing thing. However, consultations are something we organise from in here, while such citizens-driven initiatives are initiatives that grow from below. So I would first like to know whether the rapporteur will recognise that there is a difference as to where the initiative comes from, whether it is a citizen-run or the hearings that are being organised from in here. The second thing is that it sounds really good to try to revive some of the tools that are present.I and SF would love to take part in the trial so I want to hear: do the Socialists have any suggestions as to how it might be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130017	Now the rapporteur himself cites hearings as a very good example, and I assume that when the rapporteur says hearings, she does not mean them with written answers, but the hearings that we organise in the various committees. I think we have been too poor in recent years to carry out consultations, not only with regard to current legislation, but also with regard to consultations which have a broader character and a more involved nature. To use that tool better and more actively I think would be excellent and a fantastic good example of something we could do. I do not really know how to put it into a system, but it is primarily about getting the good ideas. But the point of that is also that the consultation, the consultation tool, the conducting of an open hearing in a committee has the character of getting more around a subject and having an issue clarified. On the basis of this, various initiatives may be taken. Because it is not always the right answer to make a resolution. At other times, it is right to change a practice, or that conciliation parties which are locked in a particular area may change their views. That was some of it, among other things. The consultation on the cash aid ceiling clearly showed that there was a great deal of public concern here about something which a rather narrow majority, it must be said, was behind in a conciliation in this Parliament. So the consultation as a tool seems to me to deserve to be extended even further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130203	I fully agree, so I would really like to contribute to that development. I'm just thinking again, is it a either-or? It could be imagined that some of these citizens' initiatives actually gave rise to a hearing so that the proposals could be qualified even more and qualified for the decision-making basis needed to deal with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130227	In any case, I assume that the authors of the motion have an idea of how to qualify the proposal in such a way that it can act as a motion for a resolution in this House. It is rather unclear to me how one intends to do so in practice, as I assume that if one is to have people sign a proposal, they must also know the full nature of the proposal. That is why it must be expected that there will be such a process that it is a legally valid resolution which is being tabled and which people can take a position on. That is why I also assume that there must be a relatively large amount of administrative assistance to assist those people who, if necessary, have to table the motion for a resolution. I assume that this is one of the things that we can also deepen further in the committee procedure, because I am in fact in doubt as to how it will work in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130327	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130329	Thank you. After all, we are not politicians in Denmark who have the highest credibility. In the last survey I saw, we were significantly at the bottom, for example, underneath. journalists and real estate agents. Could it be imagined that a proposal such as this could help to reach out to the people and involve the people and thus create the opportunity for us to improve our credibility with the people and to have a better dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130404	Unfortunately, you can also risk the opposite. In other words, we can also risk a series of resolutions being tabled which will then be poured down the board, and then there will be some who will naturally come and say: well, why use it at all if nothing is done anyway? For obvious reasons, we do not know that, but it is also a scenario that, of course, we have to take into account. It can be said that it is quite right, as has been said in the debate, that, for example, it is true. In Finland, for example, some excellent proposals have been made. proposals on homosexual marriages, the right of homosexuals to marry, but it has already been implemented in Denmark because we actually have a rather progressive parliament. So there are some of these elements we can at least say hardly come in as proposals. On the other hand, it can easily be imagined that there will be 50,000 people who may be of the opinion that they should not be allowed to marry in the church, even though legislation has been introduced to make this possible. I can now announce that the Socialists will not be able to support this. So if there are 50 000 people who support such a proposal, it may well be that they are a little disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130523	Now, of course, it is not certain that we will adopt the proposals that are being put forward, but does the rapporteur not believe that the fact that we are giving people the opportunity to act with such proposals will create a greater interest in political work and will create a sense of more dialogue and perhaps help to give us a little more credibility in inviting citizens-driven proposals directly into our Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130550	I think it's an incredibly good idea to invite people into parliament. I myself carry out Question Times like this, where I live on video from my office letting people come in with questions and comments. I think that works very well. There are 300-500 people who follow it and ask questions and make comments. I am quite sure that some of what will come in there will also become something that I can use and which may turn into concrete proposals. So it is very much about inviting people in, but the question is: should there really be 50,000 signatures for that? For one good idea, it may be that no 50,000 are behind it. So I also think that part of the challenge here lies in the assumption that there must be many who support something. In fact, I can be concerned about this, because it may mean that very good ideas, which are not necessarily just the great popular support for, do not have the right to be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130651	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130654	The last thing I probably didn't understand at all, because I find it hard to see how this proposal can prevent us from working less with good ideas in here that don't come out of the population. So I guess I don't quite understand. I'm just gonna ask you a question about the referendum. Could the rapporteur not elaborate on this, because it is not a question of these proposals being put to a referendum. It is a question of 50 000 citizens saying: we would like this to be discussed within the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130732	Yes, indeed, indeed. My comment on this is simply that, in the spirit of the Constitution, when, among other things, we were given the opportunity to do so. so that what types of legislation would not be suitable for putting them to the public for a referendum, there are some elements of what was said to make little sense, and the question is whether the proposers have considered whether there are some types of proposals that the authors of the Constitution have also considered which would not be appropriate to be tabled in this way. Some of the things that are dealt with in the constitution are among other things. the printing of taxes, expropriation and the kind of things that will certainly be something that I am quite sure you could get a large population to sign, i.e. that they want to get rid of a certain tax, for example. But is this also something that one imagines going through this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130840	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130845	In our optics, it's all about it. The rapporteur and I are also rapporteurs in other areas. That, among other things. Says here, is that proposals for the Finance Act, among others. We should not be put to a referendum, but one could imagine that there was a debate in the public about yes, we should think loudly about the so-called re-prioritisation contribution, and it would be interesting if there were a proposal from the public that they would like us to discuss the re-prioritisation contribution once again in the Parliamentary Chamber. That could be a subject. Imagine if we could create a public debate on the re-priority contribution so that the debate is not just born of us in here. I myself would think that was an interesting suggestion to get in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429130931	I can then congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that this proposal is to be debated in a resolution on 13 May, a motion for a resolution which I have tabled, because the point is, in fact, that it is something of which there is a great deal of popular attention, as well as a great deal of popular attention to, for example, the right of homosexuals to marry and various other elements which are precisely ending up in this Parliament. That is why it has to be said that at least some of what is going on out there is leaking through the thick walls of Christiansborg, and we must be pleased that, fortunately, we politicians still have two ears and only one mouth and should therefore take longer to listen than to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131021	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131030	Thank you for that, President. Politicians led, closed, politicians who are not on the same wavelength as citizens about what is going on behind Christiansborg's thick walls and much more. For a long time there has been a distrust of politicians that they do not have their finger on the pulse of the voters and certainly not around the country, which is really far away from Christiansborg. With this resolution on citizen-driven proposals that can be dealt with in the Folketing, we involve the voters in the political processes where they can more actively decide on political agendas that would otherwise not have been dealt with at Christiansborg. Take, for example. the case of the sale of DONG or the adoption of the Public Service Act, it met with great opposition in the public. We in DF have always wanted several things to be added to referendums, for example. After all, the most recent EU vote on the legal reservation has seen that a large majority of the politicians in here at Christiansborg were not in line with the people. One important thing for the Danish People's Party in order to be able to take part in this resolution was that we introduced the requirement that citizens-driven proposals made in the Folketing should not be contrary to the Constitution. This also applies, of course, to the things we have been described by the Minister here today. We would, of course, like to see this clarified in a committee procedure. If we had not had this inscribed in the Constitution, it could have been the case that we had some unrealistic proposals to abolish the defence or put an end to the royal house, and of course we do not want that to be debated in this Chamber. But with this proposal we hope to try to get the Danish people involved in the political issues and, above all, to give them a better understanding of the political processes. We look forward to the further work of the committee, and then I should also welcome the Conservatives and say that they can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131257	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131300	These are the points made in the motion for a resolution, which refers to the idea of applying the general procedure to motions for resolutions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. first reading, committee reading and second reading in this Chamber. I should like to ask whether there has been any thought that we have introduced a new possibility that resolutions can also be dealt with directly in committee and with only one reading afterwards in the Folketing. Is this an option that could also be applied to this type of proposal, or should it be used in two readings in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131350	Whether this is also an option is something that we can take to our committee. If something needs to be adjusted or written into the text so that we can also include the questioner and the author's party, so that we have an even wider anchored adoption of the proposal here, then we are willing to discuss that this could also be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131418-2	I just assumed that it had been discussed and determined that it should be exactly the approach one had to it. Because there are both the advantages and disadvantages of being able to have the perhaps a little more freer debate that can be in a committee procedure, i.e. if you choose that new approach. I do not know whether the rapporteur has considered this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131448	If these discussions in committee should end up in the committee if the questioner has time, that we could have a broader basis for this motion for a resolution, then I would like to take the discussion at committee meetings, and then we will see how far we can get there. We have not been completely locked there, or at least I would not now say from the platform that there could be no discussion of getting wider support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131522	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, there are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Søren Gade from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131533	Thank you for that and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. This gives us the opportunity to have a debate about our people's rule and representative democracy here in Denmark. I should like to begin by telling you that I agree 100% with what the Minister for Justice said in his opening speech. The proposal is about establishing a system which gives citizens the right to be put forward, examined and voted on a proposal which has brought together these famous 50,000 votes. I have no doubt that the resolution has been borne by the noblest intentions, but I consider the proposal to be a little superfluous. As several rapporteurs have said here from the platform today, every member of parliament is free to take up a particular proposal in the Folketing. This applies, whether there are 50,000 signatures behind it or just a single signature, just a single member of parliament thinks it is a good idea and that you can stand up for it. So that means that today we have a system in which an email or a phone call is often enough to be heard by a parliamentarian regardless of party color. However, let us take this opportunity to stress that, as a starting point, we in the Left, of course, always welcome ideas and proposals that aim to strengthen citizens' commitment to our people's rule, because it is important to ensure that our democracy is constantly evolving. And we must never let go, as the Minister of Justice said. We must not be blind to it if democracy is challenged or threatened, and we must be aware of how to keep our democracy alive. Then we have what we call a representative democracy in Denmark. This is a tradition we have had for over 150 years, and we are quite happy with that in the Left. It is actually my impression, both from my first period in the Folketing, from the time I was out, and now from my second period, that members of parliament across all parties are some of the best to listen and to be in contact with citizens. You can follow the individual member on social media or read the newspapers. So all 179 members are in contact with a lot of voters, because much of our work is going on outside the Castle here. Then it is the case that if a member of parliament fails to perform his duties, our electorate is free to vote for another politician. And there one should use the democratic right that one also has in Denmark to vote for the politicians who, as a citizen, think best of one's views. The Left believes in, and we actually believe that democracy in Denmark is strong. The turnout in Denmark is generally high. This testifies to the involvement of the Danish population. This testifies to the fact that the Danish people are making use of the right they have as citizens of a democracy such as the Danish one and the rights they have in the constitution today. We have a living member democracy, where Danish MPs meet with citizens, companies, associations and organisations on a daily basis. In fact, I believe that we are all listening on an ongoing and daily basis. Proposals come forward, they are debated and they are designed for concrete policy. So I would like to take this opportunity to call on the citizens to take advantage of the opportunity that they actually have to influence, to get involved in the debate directly or indirectly, to make contact with members of parliament, to stand by their views. And, of course, as a citizen, you can also take advantage of the opportunity that actually exists to gain influence by joining a political party. In fact, in the Left, we do not believe that there is a need for the signatures of 50,000 citizens until there is a hearing in this Parliament, and we therefore do not agree with the proposers that there is a need for a system in which motions for resolutions with at least 50,000 signatures are to be tabled, debated and voted on here in the Folketing. We cannot support the proposal, but let me also say in conclusion that, of course, we in the Left are open to discussing other proposals that could make our democracy and our people's rule more alive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131929	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429131933	Thank you to the rapporteur. When I listen to the rapporteur's speech, it sounds as if this proposal is going to replace everything else, we are going to wipe the board completely clean, and this is all we are using as the only tool. Does the rapporteur not see the idea that we will have more tools, even more tools, continue to develop new tools that will make our democracy more strong? This proposal does not question the representative democracy we have. It is, of course, an addition to how we work with representative democracy. So does the rapporteur not see that this is not a substitute for anything, but a supplement to all the other good tools?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132022	I totally understand, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist's question, and I would like to say to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that I do not see it as if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and the other proposers will destroy what we have, but I share the Minister for Justice's concern that it will become more individual democracy here in the Folketing. And why do I say that? Yes, because it is the case that Facebook, the social media, is something that a lot of us use, and it has both good and bad sides. And it is true, as the Minister of Justice also pointed out, that sometimes what is called a shitstorm on the Internet happens. It can be about individuals, it can be about cases, it can be about a lot of things. social media can click directly on its NemID, and then click for a proposal, which is a single matter, which the Minister also explained could be a judgment in a specific case or a thing that does not belong in here. I understand the rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Nordqvists, questions about more tools, but I just do not think that the tool that we are going to introduce here necessarily benefits. There are other ways to achieve the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132142	But I have to say that this proposal is, after all, strongly inspired by things that you have in other countries, including countries with which we can compare ourselves to in a great many ways • Finland, England, for example. And what's interesting to see there is that it's not just various small personal cases that are pouring out, as we saw if it was here to sit and debate until 8 a.m. 4-5 in the morning every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. These are, in fact, very fundamental matters that reach as far as a broad public debate as they do, just as the strength to collect so many signatures that we would have to take a position on them. Does the rapporteur not recognise that it is perhaps an unjustified fear to think that we should be so special in Denmark that it would be personal matters that would be brought forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132233	I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that although the government is in the minority, I am not concerned on behalf of democracy that democracy collapses because this proposal might be adopted. I would like to make that clear. But there is something fundamental about what I am saying, that is to say, the fact that today public debates are also leading to proposals in this Parliament. If sir... Rasmus Nordqvist has some voters in Copenhagen, or wherever they may be, who believe that there is a proposal that is important to be dealt with in the Folketing, then I am quite sure that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is such a type of politician that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist will listen to this citizen, this one will choose and bring it up in the Alternative's group and then present a motion for a resolution in the Folketing. So I actually believe that the option is here today, and that is why I think the proposal is superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132323	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132326	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to drill into it with what it is then for some proposals from the public that you risk getting. Now we are talking about the fact that there is a great deal of distrust among the population towards politicians, but it might almost sound as if it is going the opposite way too. And I think it is important to take note of that, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist says that the examples seen in Finland have been seriously thought proposals which are important to have debated in the Parliamentary Assembly. Then the rapporteur could not add to that with confidence in what kind of proposals the public might come up with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132411-2	I can do that. I have great faith in the people. It is the people of Denmark who elect the 179 members of parliament, and if they are not satisfied with the 179, they can choose some others. What I just say quietly is that there is an easier way to get a proposal in the Assembly than to collect 50,000 votes, and that is to call a politician. And if you can argue for your case and the case is good, then there is a parliamentarian who will take it up in the Folketing. This has been the case up to now, and I think it will also be forward-looking. I do not believe that there is, what should we say, a pressure cooker of proposals from thousands of people out in Denmark who are incinerated that these proposals are not being dealt with in the Folketing. In fact, I believe that Danish politicians across the parties are listening and that we in the Danish Parliament are dealing with a great many proposals that are rooted in public debates and in organisations and individual citizens who believe that exactly their subject calls for a debate in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132510	I fully agree with that. But this is just an extra tool. Why does the rapporteur not think it would be interesting to have an extra tool in the box so that we can use it to have debates on motions for resolutions in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132525	Because we have a representative democracy, which I actually think works quite well. And that is why I take the view in principle that it is possible to contact parliamentary politicians, who are also involved in the public debate and also of their own free will and on their own initiative to table resolutions. That is why I believe that the system we have is a good one. However, I fully recognise that a majority can decide to add this tool to the toolbox, and I also fully recognise that it does not pose a threat to Danish democracy. The Left simply takes the view in principle that this is a superfluous proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132600	Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132606	Thank you. After all, the low credibility of parliamentary politicians is not unknown to the rapporteur of the Left. We are the professional group with the lowest credibility in the population. This is something that concerns us very much in the alternative, and I am sure it also concerns the other parties. But it's not something we talk about so much here at Christiansborg. In fact, I do not remember discussing it in committee or across parties, and that is actually strange. Because if a company's board had as little credibility as we do, it would be kicked out. The question is how it would go at all the company which was so out of sync with its employees or its customers. Then we come here with a proposal that addresses this and elsewhere it works or something that looks very much like it, actually well and then the Left votes against it. Could the rapporteur not imagine that it might be wise to be a little risky in the face of the huge challenge of regaining the credibility of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132717	I do not think that this necessarily has anything to do with the proposal that Mr. Torsten Gejl mentions here. I do not think it enhances the credibility of politicians to adopt a proposal in the Folketing that 50,000 citizens should put their signatures on getting a proposal that most times may end up being voted down. Actually, I don't think so. It is a long and long way to go to put forward a proposal which may not even be put forward, because I can hear from the authors of the motion that, after all, they recognise that the basic law must be respected. It is the case that proposals can only be made here in the Folketing, for which a member of parliament is the target. If there's a proposal coming in, I don't know how sir. Torsten Gejl believes that the proposal can come up in the Parliamentary Chamber, because there must be one that is in line with the proposal in question. It's directly in the Constitution. So I do not think that politicians can be remedied by adopting this proposal in the Folketing. There I think there are quite other things that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132815	That is a fair view. But for example... in Finland, the people have experienced making some proposals, one of which has even been adopted. Does the rapporteur not believe that it can improve the dialogue between politicians and the public a little and thus help to create a little more credibility? Credibility often arises from the fact that there is a dialogue, while it can quickly disappear when the people feel that the walls around Christiansborg are almost unbreakable. Does the rapporteur not believe that in Finland, when you see that some of it actually gets through, it also helps to create a little more credibility about politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132855	But then I have to acknowledge the premise that there are a lot of people walking around in Denmark who do not think that they are being heard in here, and I do not recognise it, because I think that Danish politicians are good at listening. I believe that citizens can make representations to all politicians. I know they can do that on social media and on e-mail and other matters, and if there is a proposal that a parliamentarian in here seems timely to make and needs to be raised in the Folketing, then it will be raised. I don't think you need to spend all that time collecting 50,000 signatures. In fact, I think it is a better way to engage in dialogue with a politician or a political party, and that is whether you are an individual or an organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132933	Thank you, sir. Søren Gade. The next rapporteur is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429132944	The proposal we are debating, which the Enhedslisten is proud to make, is, after all, similar to the 2014 proposal of the Alternative on citizens' motion for a resolution. We're glad we have to be in this round, thank you for that. The crucial difference between this proposal we are dealing with now and what we discussed earlier is that there is a majority in the Folketing that helps to put it forward. In this way, it is a very, very good day for democracy, at least in the Enhedslisten. Even when the resolution was tabled in 2014, we supported it and we can now see that there is a majority, and we are pleased about that. This proposal seems to us to be a much needed vitamin supplement to our representative democracy. We hope and expect that it will increase interest in a democratic process and will also help to reduce enough sense of powerlessness that can sometimes be enjoyed as a citizen, given that you will then have the opportunity to take part in a proposal and put the political agenda forward, because it is also an important part of this proposal, not only that the citizens will have the opportunity to have proposals dealt with in here, but also that they will be able to set a political agenda. All other things being equal, there needs to be more than a telephone call and a persuasion of a single member of parliament to actually put forward a proposal in the Chamber, even if there are some rapporteurs here who pretend to be different, and that at least more needs to be done than it needs to be able to have a political agenda. But we hope this will do the same. It does not in any way go beyond the framework of representative democracy. We are not talking about direct democracy, we are not talking about increased access to referendums. We would also very much like to discuss this in the Enhedslisten, we think it should be there but this is simply about 50 000 citizens with their signatures being able to ensure that a proposal receives two readings and a vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. Let's not talk it up to more than it is. I heard the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party mention both the case of the sale of DONG shares to Goldman Sachs and the so-called Public Act, which we have also dealt with earlier today as being two places where very, very many citizens actually tried to sign and advocate that the Folketing should do something else, and it is probably very good for them to know if they could have an opportunity to also have a claim on some form of comment from the Folketing when they so eagerly try to get politicians to listen. Of course, everything must be done within the framework of the Constitution. There is no doubt about that, and this also means that we need to create a system that is flexible in relation to the constitution, so that we have to find a way of doing it, and we can of course also do so where it becomes a real right, but that it is also limited by what is the word of the constitution, namely that it is the members of the Folketing and the government ministers who can put forward legislative proposals. We think it is a good solution that it is the President of the Folketing who does so. I would also like to point out that in the proposal there is a two-year sunset clause which will mean that, if the scheme is not actively re-adopted, it will run out of its own accord, and it will of course be relevant if we come up with all those terrible ideas about the practical implementation that we have heard from up here, for example. this idea that the people are virtually incapable of using such a tool in a sensible way, but will send individual cases of clothing animals and all sorts of other things into the Assembly Hall to their deaths. I think it might be ridiculing the intelligence of our citizens. In fact, I think that if we get this tool as citizens, people will use it wisely. I cannot deny that there will be something, but I do not think that it will be as terrible as it is said, and if it should at last be, then there is a sunset clause which means that it will disappear on its own, and then it will be the end of clothing animal laws. Then put cold water in your blood. I think there is a tendency for this to be run equally high and for the positive results we can get from it to be overlooked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429133457	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are giving the floor to the next rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429133505	In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is a good idea if the citizens have the opportunity to send a signal to the Folketing that there is a proposal that they would like to have dealt with. That is why we are also the co-author of the resolution we are debating here today. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for the relevant considerations regarding the interaction between the proposal and the Constitution. It is also a reflection that we ourselves have been in and which we have also discussed with some of the other parties behind the proposal. And if it is the case that there is a detail in the proposal that is formulated in such a way that it cannot be implemented in practical terms, as it has just been described here, then we just have to make sure that it is changed so that it is practically possible to do so. One might say that the proposal could perhaps be more precise on the front page, in other words in the proposal itself, but, as the comments state, it has actually been exceeded. In other words, we just have to make sure that the Folketing provides this tool so that 50,000 citizens can ask for a proposal and that the starting point is that the President of the Danish Parliament is the one who makes the proposal if she or he, if that happens, would want it. I think that's a really good idea, among other things. Because it also opens up the house with regard to the population that there is a better opportunity to engage. There is also the possibility that proposals which cannot just find their way through the party-disciplined groups will still be able to find their way to the Parliamentary Chamber. Don't get me wrong, I have a lot of respect and desire for party discipline, but I think it is a good idea that there may be proposals that sit minority and want to be around the groups, which nevertheless find their way here to the Assembly. One could also imagine, if one is really crazy, that there were proposals that 50,000 citizens would have liked to have dealt with, as not one of the 179 members of the House would have liked to have dealt with. And then I think it's fine that you can have the discussion. After all, there is no right for the proposals to be implemented. It is only possible to treat them. It can be said that this is very easy, because in reality we do not have to vote on this proposal at all, I am not saying that we should not, but we do not really need to vote on it, because I can just say that if there are 50,000 signatures, I will put them on the table. That is what I have said, and it can be said that it is just like solved, and then we really do not have to talk about it any more. And then I have the feeling that there is a majority in the Folketing who actually feels that way. Then we must see that it may be that those who are against and fear that it will all be about teddy bears and other peculiarities are right. One should never deny that one's political opponents can be right. I would also like to promise, both on behalf of myself and of the Liberal Alliance, that if it were to end there, we would like to evaluate and change the way the scheme is, if it really turns out that it all ends up in nonsense. But I don't think it actually does, there is no indication that it has done anywhere else, and why should the Danish population be dumber than the Finnish people. I don't think there's anything suggesting that, and I find it hard to imagine it should be that way. So we will continue to work on the proposal in the very best spirit, and I am sure that we will find a solution that can be done in the practical reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429133906	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429133925	Thank you. With this proposal, we in the Radical Left want us to be a broad circle of parties that have put forward the idea of giving citizens even more opportunities to participate in democracy, qualifying democratic involvement. And we are inspired by the Finnish experience that several rapporteurs have mentioned. We'd like to try something new. In Finland, the model has led to discussion of a few handfuls of proposals in the Finnish Parliament. It is true that today, as the Minister and others have mentioned, there is ample opportunity to have access to parliamentary politicians. I do not think that is the crucial problem either. We all know that there is not much to be done before a parliamentarian takes a call on, for example. as a motion for a resolution, and I am quite happy with that as well. We may have different limits on what it takes. We have representative democracy in Denmark, and nobody wants to change that. We salute that. Members of Parliament are bound by their beliefs alone, and this proposal does not change that. On the contrary, we in the Radical Left believe that we have different approaches, but I think that this proposal may help to make visible how attitudes are broken in the Folketing and in the people, as it should be, just as we believe that it can help to qualify and perhaps even make democratic participation accountable. If you have to collect 50,000 signatures, you have to work with the arguments. Why do you want something done? What consequences can this have? For good reasons, we don't know exactly how this is going to work, but we'd like to try. That is why we propose it as a two-year attempt. We in the Radical Left want to let the citizens in and qualify, in this way, both the citizens, ourselves as politicians and the democratic debate itself. And it is, as the Minister of Justice himself said earlier, entirely in line with the values of my party. We have always been and will always be deeply concerned about how we develop democracy. I think that the debate in Finland shows that the proposal will not necessarily lead to more individual cases in this Chamber, at least no more than those that fill the Chamber today. Is this proposal going to solve all our problems with politicians and people's experience of distance from Christiansborg and politics? No, I think I can say for sure that it will not. It will not be that easy, and I think we are all well aware of that. But we need all the options we have. We must constantly reflect on how to have a qualified and qualifying democratic debate. And thank you for this today. I am actually very encouraged by, and I would like to express respect all around for the fact that, in each of our ways, I see that we are even really concerned about that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429134307	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, there are no brief remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429134317	SF's rapporteur, Mr. Jonas Dahl, was not able to participate today, so I am therefore presenting the SF's position on the matter. In the SF, we welcome the fact that there is now a majority in favour of citizens' initiatives being given the opportunity to make proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly when there are 50,000 signatures, because it is an old SF idea and, incidentally, also reminiscent of an old SF proposal. However, as in the past, we also believe that this possibility should be promoted in municipalities and regions, and that is why, in considering this proposal, we have retabled a motion for a resolution on the possibility of citizens' initiative in municipalities and regions. I also hope, of course, to be able to gather the support of the other parties for this. I would like to thank the other parties behind the proposal for good and constructive cooperation, because I think it is important that we constantly develop our democracy, and in this respect I think it is important that we try something new if we want to promote democratic participation and dialogue. I also think that today's debate has shown that we can easily do so when it really matters. Measurements have long shown that confidence in politicians in Denmark and in so far as the whole Western world is down, and there is a growing feeling among the Danes that it is difficult to have a direct influence on democracy. In SF we have always worked for a more direct and citizen-friendly access to influence decision-making processes at Christiansborg. With this proposal, we are giving citizens a greater opportunity to have a right of initiative, so that the Folketing will have to deal with proposals if a citizens' initiative can collect enough signatures. We do not think it is a miracle cure, but today it is typically the ones with the resources to hire lobbyists or the largest interest groups that have the easiest access to decision-makers. A democracy should always be able to develop and constantly seek to be expanded so as to enable as many people as possible to contribute and participate. That is why we think it is good to give the opportunity to respond to the citizens' initiatives in this way. The SF therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429134547	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments. Then it is like the last rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429134601	Before I really start my speech like this, I would just like to say that I actually think that what we are experiencing here today is an uplifting discussion we have about this proposal because it shows me that we are all really concerned about our democracy and concerned about how we keep democracy alive. I think we should keep each other very close to this proposal or not, so that we keep having these debates all the time, so that we develop and maintain our democracy. I think it is a great day for democracy today. I got up this morning and was happy, and I talked to reporters and said, this is a great day. And I think it is fantastic because seven parties, i.e. the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, Radicals, SF, Conservatives and the Alternative, have actually come together to try out some new tools. Citizen-driven proposals are quite specific, after all, the proposal means that the citizens' ability to express themselves, to be heard and to set an agenda and to have a debate expanded. In fact, citizens will have the opportunity to put forward, dealt with and voted on a proposal in the Folketing, but it is only after the support of 49.999 other citizens has been obtained, and that requires a political agenda to be set in motion for a debate. So this is a new form of citizen involvement, which I think can be a very good asset for our democracy in the long term. In the alternative, we have never concealed the fact that we want a new and more inclusive political culture. We want even more citizen involvement, even more dialogue, even more democracy, and we want to try to break down some of the walls of Christiansborg, so that we can instead invite more people into the political processes. Therefore, when we talk about a new political culture, it is not just about talking nicely to each other and about each other. It is also important that it is about more than that. It is about creating a new political culture, creating a stronger and more inclusive democracy, creating a democracy in which citizenship, citizen involvement are key words and where we work on the idea that more people actually know more and where we are not afraid to give citizens better opportunities to influence the political agenda. That is exactly what I think the seven parties are doing with this proposal. As many people know, citizens-driven proposals are inspired by a similar initiative in Finland. In fact, the scheme works very well here, and this has been done, among other things. The result, as has already been said, is that a proposal on equality has been adopted in matrimonial law. It has also turned out that I heard a Finnish researcher comment on the fact that the scheme in Finland had in fact given young people in particular a perception that they were closer to the political processes, that they felt they had better opportunities to participate. It shows very well that really good proposals are being put on the table if you listen and involve citizens. I am convinced that we can actually also get good input in Denmark in this way in addition to all the other good ways. At the same time, however, I hope and believe that citizens-driven proposals can help increase confidence in politicians and promote a more active and inclusive democracy. The latter, moreover, we have several suggestions from the Alternative and I also heard from the SF and Radicals, and we look forward very much to working on this in the Danish Parliament and on how we can get something more started. Then it is important to remember that this is not a very Danish phenomenon with politicians and trust. It is an international phenomenon and it is a phenomenon that requires new answers and new solutions, new experiments. I myself have had the pleasure of discussing how we can strengthen democracy and promote citizen involvement, with many of my colleagues not only with Danish colleagues, but also last time I attended the meeting of the Interparliamentary Union in Zambia. Then there were many meetings that were just about how we open the processes. Here I had some really exciting conversations with colleagues from Mexico, England, Nepal and Iceland. It is common to all that it is agreed that we need to increase transparency and open up political processes even more if confidence between the people and the elected representatives is to be restored. Here I note that today we have seven parties which believe that citizens' driven proposals can be part of what is needed. Then I know that there are some of my honourable colleagues here in the Danish Parliament who are concerned about what citizen-driven proposals will mean for representative democracy. And although I fully respect that concern, I do not share it. In fact, we believe that citizens-driven proposals have the potential to strengthen representative democracy • strengthen it, because citizens-driven proposals can be a good complement to the way we work in advance, and because it actually allows all people to participate in raising a political agenda and getting a case into Things here, where it has to be said that it gets a great deal of attention. So citizens-driven proposals do not, therefore, dismantle representative democracy. It complements it, it develops it and it improves it. At any rate, that is what I have heard from all seven parties behind this. Finally, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for this debate once again. And I would like to express my particular thanks to the seven parties that are behind it. It has been a pleasure to develop and improve this proposal together. And I look forward to getting it through in committee, and then I look forward to the day when I have to stand and say that it is a great day because we vote it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135228	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is no such thing, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135249	The debate has been opened, and it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing who has the floor first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135306	The proposers have specifically proposed that it be made illegal to receive funds for religious and cultural buildings and purposes in Denmark from foreign states associated with terrorist movements, or which oppose democracy, Western values and living, or from persons or organisations associated with terrorist movements, or which oppose democracy and Western values and living. I am concerned about the fact that extremist forces must not have a negative impact on integration into Danish society. In Denmark there must be room for cultural and religious diversity, but of course we cannot accept if a foreign donor, with its support, promotes parallel societies and calls for norms and practices which are incompatible with Danish law and Danish democratic principles. The government is trying to prevent this precisely in a number of areas. The Minister of Justice recently sent a bill to amend the criminal code in consultation. Here the government proposes, among other things: to introduce a new penal provision to make it a criminal offence to receive financial support from a terrorist organisation to set up or run an institution, company or similar in Denmark, including a mosque or school. The aim is precisely to prevent terrorist organisations from exerting influence through donations to civil society and creating sympathy and legitimacy. Moreover, the criminal provisions in force also provide for the possibility, in certain situations, of punishing those who receive financial resources from, for example, terrorist movements. If the recipient is involved in terrorism, it is covered by the general terrorist provision in Section 114 of the Criminal Code. Moreover, generally speaking, the reception of financial resources derived from crime can be punished as heeling. In addition, as part of their work, the Legislative Committee on the coherent regulation of the faith societies, the so-called Committee on the Law of the Sea, should consider how to create greater transparency in the economic conditions of religious communities. In this context, it should include, among other things: look at the transparency and financial reporting requirements that can be made. The Committee shall make its recommendations at the end of the year. In addition, the existing law on preventive measures against money laundering and terrorist financing aims to ensure that funds are not provided for terrorist financing and also to avoid money laundering resulting from criminal activity. If illegal cash flows are suspected, whether the money comes from a company, a private person or a country, or if there is a suspicion that funds are being used for terrorist-related activities, then different authorities, including PET and SØIK, today have the possibility to monitor it. If a country or a person is criminalising international conventions on freedom of religion, sanctions may also be adopted within the EU or under the auspices of the United Nations against that particular country or individual. These sanctions may include: be the freezing of money. As a Member State of both the EU and the UN, Denmark is obliged to implement these sanctions. With the existing legislation on money laundering and terrorist financing, the latest legislative proposal on criminalising the receipt of support from terrorist organisations to inter alia: In the opinion of the government, the establishment of a mosque and the initiated work of the Committee on the Religious Society do not need another action on foreign donations. So the government is recommending that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135743	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135746	Thank you. This is difficult to understand, because we have seen examples of donations being made for the construction of storm mosques in Denmark, for example from Qatar, and we know that there are members of the ruling system in Qatar who have been associated with terrorists and have housed terrorists. Does the Minister not find that worrying? And does the Minister not think that there is reason to try to contain the problem so that there cannot be just a steady flow of money from states or organisations where we know that there is a connection with terrorist movements and terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135822	I do not believe or hope that there are parties in the Folketing who disagree with Mr. Martin Henriksen's views overall. However, it must be kept up to whether the legislation that is already working and the things that have been put in place will actually contain what the issue is about, and I think it is doing so. So I think we have sufficient rules and legislation in this area now, and the small part that may be missing will then come later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135855	Now that we know, for example, that... Qatar has donated money to build a Grand Mosque in Copenhagen, and when we know that for example. The Iranian priesthood, their embassy in Denmark, has bought a land on which a storm mosque is also built, and that is why it advocates that legislation is not enough; then everything else must have a level playing field in the legislation. So it is possible that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution we are putting forward here by the Danish People's Party, but should I understand the Minister that there is an indication on the part of the Minister that one will look at whether in other ways one can tighten up to prevent these cash flows from entering Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135929	I think it's really important that Mr. Martin Henriksen also looks at the initiatives that have just been taken and which the Minister of Justice has just taken here by presenting a proposal. So somehow I think that Danish Folkeparti with Martin Henriksen here runs in an open door. So I simply do not think there is a need for any more rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429135956	Mr. Christian Langballe has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140001	This proposal concerns the whole principle: powers and different countries to which associated terrorism and everything else can support mosques in Denmark with social control and the things that come with Denmark, because it is clear that the person paying the party also decides which preaching sounds in the mosque. I don't think that's something you've been paying enough attention to, because if you could hit this hard, you could solve some big problems too. Since then we have been discussing how we could hit these darkened institutions, and that is why I think it would be good if there were a positive statement from the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140101	There is, in fact, the positive indication that, with the actions that have been taken, the actions that have been taken and the actions that are being taken, among other things. with the Committee on Religion, believe that we have reached where the Danish People's Party wants us to be. So now I can see that Mr. Christian Langballe runs an open door in his shoulder with Mr. Martin Henriksen. But it looks fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140131	It always depends on how open that door is, because if it's half-closed, you might as well run as much as you can to run it all the way in. It is then just a fundamental discussion of the fact that there are some different cash flows that go to mosques, which then also dictates a preaching that lies incredibly far away from the Danish values and the fundamental principles that have built up Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140205	There is simply the peculiarity of this debate that we are in agreement, and it sometimes seems to be the same here in the Folketing. So we don't disagree. It may be just a matter of temperament, for example. Whether we should wait for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials or the Verification of Credentials and Immunities or not, and I believe that we should certainly have solid ground under our feet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140228	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the rapporteurs and the first is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140241	The proposal here obliges the government to put forward a bill that makes it illegal to receive funds for religious and cultural buildings and purposes in Denmark from foreign states associated with terrorist movements or which oppose democracy and Western values and living conditions, or from organisations and individuals with the same purpose. Let me start by making it quite clear that, in social democratic spectacles, it is totally unacceptable that religious communities in this country are supported by terrorist organisations. That is why we must do what is in our power to combat these. We are happy to apply the legislation. We are happy to intensify the efforts of the authorities. And we welcome any other initiative for this purpose. However, the proposal we are discussing here today has a number of challenges, which is why we cannot support it immediately. Firstly, it is not clearly defined who these countries or individuals are. In the worst case scenario, this would mean that we risk religious communities such as seamen's churches losing their subsidies, in other words because the law is unclear. If other countries introduce a similar law, it could at worst mean that Danish seamen's churches, which are important cultural institutions and meeting places for Danes around the world, should close because there are radicalised fundamentalists living in Denmark, as we have heard, for example, is the case in Grimmøj. Secondly, the definition of states is somewhat unclear, which may make it difficult to use what is proposed in practice. What we want, on the other hand, is to help tighten the course against these other ways. Right now, negotiations are under way on radicalisation by the church minister, a debate which I understand we have a common interest in increasing both speed and scope. And we would be happy to discuss the subject further, including in this context, and to help find solutions that work in practice. In the area of taxation too, there are laws that we can tackle to counteract this. With these words, I must say that we fully support the intention of the proposal here, but that we hope to work together on other legislative or regulatory initiatives to combat what is behind the intention of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140526	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are going to go to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140554	Thank you very much. As the parties in the Chamber already know, the Left is very concerned about fighting the dark forces that are working against Danish society. In the TV 2 programmes we saw the mosques behind the veil how people take advantage of the freedom that you enjoy here in Denmark to preach Sharia law and social standards, which are very, very far from Danish social standards. We in the Left will do everything we can to combat this. Furthermore, the fight against the growing threat of terrorism that we are experiencing, not only in Denmark but throughout the world, is central to the security policy of the Left. But with this proposal, Dansk Folkeparti takes a different turn at among other things. to illegal the reception of financial resources for religious and cultural buildings and purposes in Denmark from foreign states. I can reassure the proposers that, when it comes to the terrorist side, we are already working very, very hard in that area. At present there is a draft law from the Minister of Justice in consultation to make it a criminal offence to receive financial support from a terrorist organisation to set up or run an institution, company or the like in Denmark. With that bill, we are striving to make a decisive contribution to the donations that flow across the border and that are being used to spread anti-democratic propaganda. In addition, the government has also set up the Committee of the Faithful Communities, which will consider and at the end of the year make recommendations on how to create greater transparency in the economic conditions of communities of faith. In addition, today's legislation already provides a very good basis for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The government and the Left are therefore well at work when it comes to combating terrorism, to combat the absurd attitudes that are being spread through foreign donations, and that is why we do not consider that the proposal that is being put forward here today will make a significant contribution to the work that is already going on. That is why the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140759	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429140815	When foreign dictatorships and oppressive regimes exert influence in Denmark, there is cause for concern. Sometimes it is easily transparent and primitive attempts to influence the attitudes of us in Denmark. This applies, for example, when the Danish-North Korean Friendship Association receives subsidies from North Korea to send members of the Association and other interested parties on propaganda trips. At other times, the influence is more hidden. This is the case when you take so much account of the commercial interests of Danish companies that the Danish police are ordered to take severe action against peaceful demonstrators waving the flag of Tibet during Chinese state visits. It is also problematic when oppressive regimes, where Islam is a state religion, exert influence in Denmark, and this is the case with a country such as Qatar, whose former Grandmir, as mentioned in the comments on the resolution we are discussing today, has supported a mosque building in Copenhagen with 150 million. kr. In history, therefore, Qatar is a country with which the United States-led coalition worked closely during the war on Iraq and with which Western states continue to cooperate with military forces. Perhaps it is because of the cooperation that among others. The Danish Government is keeping a relatively low profile when it comes to criticism of the human rights situation in Qatar. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that there must be the greatest possible degree of openness in the financing of religious activities in Denmark. If the economy around the construction of mosques and other religious buildings is not publicly accessible and easily transparent in the light of the legislation in force today, we would very much like to help ensure greater openness and, if necessary, through new legislation. So it can be said that if the intention of this motion for a resolution is to create greater transparency, closer control of foreign subsidies for religious buildings in Denmark, Enhedslisten supports that intention. However, the fact that we cannot immediately support the proposal is due to the fact that it is very difficult to define which foreign donors should be prevented from providing support. The proposers operate in the proposal known as terrorist movements. It's a pretty valuable concept. When the apartheid regime ruled in South Africa, the United States, as you know, put Nelson Mandela's ANC on the terrorist list, and the organization actually remained standing for a long time after Mandela became president in 1994. President Erdogan's regime in Turkey also supports religious activities in Denmark. The Danish government cooperates with the Turkish on the posting of 30 imams, which works at Muslim congregations in Denmark, and Denmark and the EU have therefore just made a billion agreement on refugees with Erdogan's government, and at the same time there is solid evidence that the Turkish authorities are cooperating with the Islamic State. A ban such as the one outlined in the proposal will come up against, I believe, massive delineation problems, and if foreign regimes or movements want to circumvent this ban, you can imagine numerous models of doing so with straw-men, fund-buildings and other things that will ensure that the money gets there anyway. So the conclusion: we are in favour of intention. It is deeply problematic that there are foreign anti-democratic regimes that are trying to influence Danish society in this way. We believe that open accounting, closer control is the way forward. That is the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429141214	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429141223	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for addressing something that will have an effect. I think we are talking a great deal about anti-radicalisation and the small proposals where we can discuss whether they have an effect or not and how far we can go or not. But often it's not really something that moves. In fact, with this motion for a resolution, I think that the Danish People's Party is taking up an extremely important debate, namely the issue of the support of both state powers and other actors from other countries for religions in this country. So I would like to start by commending the Danish People's Party for that. The Liberal Alliance is also prepared to support the motion for a resolution in its present form or in any other form. But we have a slightly different idea about how the problem could be solved, and it is that we really think that a rule should be made that, as a religion, neither states, persons nor organisations in other countries can receive support at all unless Denmark has a bilateral agreement with that country that it can happen both ways. If this were the case with all the countries of the world, it would ensure that Denmark could say yes or no in those cases where there was a problem. In this way, we can also ensure that the rules are equal for all countries and all religions, and then there would be no difficulty in creating unequal legislation in relation to the various associations, religions and the like. Of course, you could choose a slightly more moderate model and say that you do not need to have that rule within the EU and the Nordic countries, where you automatically, like you already have some special ones in a large number of areas. It would probably be relatively straightforward, so that only those countries outside the EU and the Nordic countries would then have to make these bilateral agreements. But the demand for bilateral agreements would ensure that the Danish state has the decision-making power in relation to who can give, and thus you have the opportunity to go in and look at it and stop it if you think there are places where it is problematic that religions receive money. At any rate, we find it worrying if foreign support for religious associations and religions comes from states and organisations or people who actually support terrorism, extremism or the overthrow of society in this country. So the Liberal Alliance is positive about the proposal. We have a slightly different model of how we think we should actually do this, and we have also forwarded this proposal to the government in connection with the negotiations on anti-radicalism that are already under way. So we hope that it will also be discussed with the parties and the government when we have at some point gone further than just discussing the proposals made by the government and also come to the proposals made by the individual parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429141546	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429141601	Thank you. The motion for a resolution is about banning the reception of donations to religious or cultural buildings in Denmark from foreign states or persons associated with terrorist movements or who oppose democracy, Western values and living. I would like to make it clear that, for the alternative, the right to freedom of culture and religion is not under discussion. We believe that everyone should have the opportunity to practice their beliefs, whether it is in a mosque or in a church, without having to meet an ideological demand. Having said that, I really think that this proposal contains many different things. I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have stood up here on the platform and said that it is problematic to accept the support of anti-democratic states, organisations or people. Conversely, in our view, there must be the possibility of receiving support, that is to say, except for those I have just mentioned, even if they are some with which we are ideologically opposed. Because that is where freedom of religion comes into play. The question may also be asked: What is Western life? In fact, it can be said that the alternative at present. working to change our Western way of life because we are trying to speak against consumerism and energy consumption, as at present. is very dominant here in the West. Then there is something in the proposal that it should be illegal to support terrorist activity, but it is, as it were, already today. It is, of course, punishable and must be. The Danish People's Party then also proposes transparency in the economic conditions of associations and better opportunities to enforce the law on e.g. banning support for terrorist activities, and we are fully in line with that. We fully agree with that, and it would be very interesting if the resolution were in fact clarified on that point. I think there are such a little conflicting things in this resolution, so as a starting point we cannot support it, but there are also some things that I think are positive, among other things. the issue of transparency in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429141843	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429141846	As far as freedom of expression and religious freedom are concerned, I am in complete agreement, but I would like to remind you that religious freedom is, in fact, already limited if, for example, one were to do so. Takes the church. If I as a priest stand up in the church out in Chele Sogn and encourage stoning, I will be released as a priest. It will simply not be possible. This means that there is in fact a supervision of what preaching sounds around the Danish churches. And what we really just want is to bring the law on the other religions into line with the legislation that, for example, exists in relation to the church of the people. This is also true of this proposal, namely that we will simply try to prevent money from terrorist movements or anything associated with terrorism from being given to these different religions, because those who pay the money are also in charge of preaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142013	I fully agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that it would be illegal if Mr. Christian Langballe, for example. Stand up and say he'd call for stoning, because that's illegal. It is an illegal act which could be reported to the police, no matter who calls for it. The second point about them being equal to the church is, I think, a very interesting idea, because then we could really discuss whether we should support all faiths, because we could therefore make demands on them. That is to say, we would equate the different religions, and that is something that we in the Alternative think is really interesting to discuss. Then we will also discuss the matter of whether we should separate church and state. It could also be an interesting discussion to take. So I think that, as Mr. Christian Langballe opens up, in fact is a super interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142115	Yes, yes, that is an interesting interpretation of my position, in which I cannot really recognize the truth myself. Well, what is the matter is that the church has a special status, because it is the basic church that we have had for 1,000 years and therefore has a special significance for Danish society. That's just the way it is. Then I would like to say that other recognised religions actually also have privileges in relation to the state, in other words, in relation to taxes and a lot of other things. So that does not mean that the other religions are not being supported. They certainly do, and for this very reason, of course, we can also make demands on the conduct of the recognized religions and on the preaching of them. Because if that is something that is contrary to ordinary, basic Danish legislation, then of course we can take action against the religions. Of course. That is what we are working on, including in these anti-radical negotiations, namely how we take action against the recognised religions, so that the legislation is actually brought into line with the conditions that exist in the people's church.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142228	Well, I quite agree with Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe in that the things that are contrary to Danish legislation can, fortunately, already be tackled today. And then I fully agree that just approved religions and associations also have tax credits and other options. What I just think might be interesting to discuss is, in fact, whether to talk about real equality in the different religions, because then there would be an opportunity to regulate. I didn't raise Christian Langballe for that point of view. I fully understood that this was not what Christian Langballe meant, but it opened up an association with me, and that is why I thought it was interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142315	I thank Mrs Josephine Fock and welcome Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142326	Thank you for welcoming me. It is so distinguished here on this also distinguished platform. In fact, I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented a very factual analysis of how the criminal code and various other existing laws offer a number of possibilities, but also of what challenges we face. As far as I am concerned, as I hear most rapporteurs do, I share the intention here. It is difficult not to take a very strong stand against terrorist financing for buildings and other things, whether they are religious, cultural or anything else. We also want full transparency about the funding of religious institutions, regardless of who they are. But what is the hops in this motion for a resolution is, of course, how the definitions are defined. As I read the proposal, it will, as I have said, continue to be a framework of dispersal, and it is difficult to see how it can be delineated, because it is very unclear definitions. That is why, in the Radical Left, we are actually looking forward to a legislative proposal from the Minister. If it is possible at all to target terrorist financing of religious and cultural buildings with closer control, with openness on funding, we are very open to looking at it, just as we, as the Minister himself stressed, are naturally awaiting the recommendations made by the Gammeltoft-Hansen Committee. I call this because I do not remember the exact name, but I mean the committee that sits and looks at precisely religious institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142524	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142534	Thank you. The SF has looked at this proposal, which includes: aims to make it illegal to receive funds for religious and cultural buildings and purposes in Denmark from foreign states. We see the resolution as an attempt to stop some of the cash flows from other countries, such as the United States and Japan. Today we are going to the construction of storm mosques and mosques in Denmark, and that is also one of the points made in the comments to the motion for a resolution. Indeed, we share the concern about the cash flows, and we have done so from the outset, because there is not full transparency as to what that money is going to do. The worst possible scenario is for example: money from other countries for the construction of mosques which promote parallel societies, anti-democratic values, or which simply adversely affect integration. As the comments on the motion for a resolution also state, in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, we have been involved in trying to set in motion a coal excavation of the cash flows in order to see if we can find out what this is going to do and whether we can have more transparency, and we have failed to do so. Now I hear the Minister and the government say that we are working on it, and that is a work that we fully support. But when we cannot support this resolution, it is because we simply need to clarify some very specific elements of the proposal. So, is this proposal against religious freedom? This is something that I have seen the last time that we discussed in 2011 and where the conclusions of the then minister were, in fact, that this was a direct violation of freedom of religion. Is this discriminating between the different religions? It is also something that has been debated, and that is something that has still not been answered. We have yet to be defined, and I think that is a very exciting debate, and it is a very political debate: what exactly is Western life? What are Western values? Who really defines them? Who should sit and make the list of states and powers that do not exactly have the way of life that we think is right? It's not described either. So we cannot support the resolution as it stands, but we would very much like to support the government's work in securing more transparency and open accounts in relation to the cash flows coming from the state powers. Because we actually find that worrying too. So we look forward to future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142809	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429142822	We in the Conservative People's Party very much agree with the Danish People's Party that it should not be possible to be funded as a mosque or imam or similar institution by states, people who have relations with extremism and terror. We fully agree with that. But let's take it one step at a time. In the first place, we think it is important that we have openness and transparency in the accounts of mosques. That is one of the things we wanted in the current negotiations. Who is funding the mosques, who, for example, is financing the Grimhøjmosque? Let us have some openness and then we can take the next step and then ban extreme foundations, organisations, institutions from financing the mosques in Denmark when they have those relationships. In the negotiations under way, we also wanted to take as a starting point the popular church model in relation to the mosques, in other words to encourage them to set up a congregation responsible for hiring the imam. There must be openness about the accounts, just as there is with the church, and then there must be supervision of the Imams in the same way as with the priests in the church. If a priest preaches extremely or politically, the bishop or the church minister can go in and interfere. So let us wait for the results of the current negotiations. We do not know when they end, it goes too slowly, but let us wait, and then we can take the next step and then ban those organizations from funding extreme mosques.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143022	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments, so we shall turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143032	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your positive statements. If it lasts all the way, it has to be said that there has been a shift in Danish politics. The truth is marching out there, and we hope it will be something in the end. At least I sense some kindness, and I would like to sign for that, although there were a number of parties who said that they could not end up supporting the resolution, but that there were elements in it that they would like to see implemented in one way or another. There were also other ideas on how to solve the problem. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll gave some suggestions on how to do it, and we would very much like to discuss whether there are other models that can be used to achieve the goal. As long as we can get to it and as long as we agree that there is a problem here, I think we can also find out how we deal with it. The reason for the resolution is, of course, that a number of large mosques have been built, for which we know financial aid has been made available from outside. There has been some ambiguity about the flow of funds, and this has caused concern among the population and political decision-makers and fears that, in the wake of the financial subsidies, conditions have been followed in relation to preaching certain things and that the mosque must belong to a particular direction. In connection with the upcoming Grand Mosque building at Dortheavej in the northwest district of Copenhagen, and it is Islamic faiths that from time to time shine at making themselves unlucky, which is behind it, it is reported that the funding must be solely on the basis of private donations. However, it is difficult to find out with the current rules whether this is actually the case and who actually helps to finance it. That is why we want to make it illegal to receive financial resources for religious and cultural buildings and purposes in Denmark from foreign state powers or from persons and organisations associated with terrorist movements, or who oppose democracy and Western values and lifestyles. If the proposal is adopted, the Government will be required to submit legislative proposals to this effect before the end of this year. It is our intention that the person (s) wishing to collect funds for religious and cultural buildings and purposes should comply with the proposed provisions. In addition, the collecting officer shall ensure in particular that support and donations from States associated with terrorist movements are not received. An appropriate sanction, if you violate the provisions not to receive financial resources, could be that the amount is, of course, taken into account in the treasury and that a fine is imposed. And in gross disregard, we imagine that there should be an opportunity to sentence the sentence of liberty. However, we have taken note of the positive comments, both those from the government and those from other parties, and we therefore hope that the many words can be translated into action. We look forward to this from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143307	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143328	The debate is open. It is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143343	The motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party instructs the government to table proposals to amend the expulsion rules in the Aliens Act, but also to examine the possibility of further tightening up. The proposers propose first to reinstate the wording with certainty in the Aliens Act, so that in future there will always be expulsion unless it will certainly restore the expulsion rule to the form it had when the former VK government, with the support of the Danish People's Party in 2011, tightened the expulsion rules and which the later government, the S-R-SF government, relaxed in 2012. I thought that at the time was a very big mistake of the S-R-SF government, and I think that continues to be the case. No one can doubt my position. Foreigners who commit crime are not welcome in Denmark. It is therefore no surprise that the government, of course, supports the tightening of the expulsion rules. The government's line is that it is only in those cases where it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations that expulsion can be waived. That is precisely why the government itself has had the same thoughts and intentions, as it sends out a clear signal that the expulsion of criminal foreigners must take place as far as possible. It is therefore also my intention and that of the government that the amendment of the law can be put on the legislative programme even when we come to the new parliamentary year. The authors also propose that the rules on conditional expulsion should also apply to foreigners covered by EU law. Today, foreigners are completely excluded from the rules of the Aliens Act on conditional expulsion, and I have had to say that EU law simply stops changing the rules on conditional expulsion so that they also apply to foreigners covered by EU law. This is because EU citizens have a particularly advantageous legal position under the rules of EU law on freedom of movement, which Denmark is obliged to follow. Other criminal foreigners can and will, as so far, be conditionally expelled from Denmark. For the sake of good order, I would just like to emphasise that EU citizens, as always, will be able to be expelled in particular within the framework of EU law. Finally, the proposers propose that the possibility of tightening up further should be examined. No one can be surprised either. I couldn't agree more, and the possibility of that, of course, is constantly being assessed by the government. This also means that the space within international commitments must be explored and, if necessary, we must also debate it and challenge that particular part. To sum up, of course, the government shares the wish that criminal foreigners be expelled as far as possible, but for the reasons I have mentioned, the government cannot support the resolution as a whole, but will therefore come up with a bill when the Folketing meets again after the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143732	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143738	As far as I am aware, before the elections, the Left itself made a similar proposal. I really think it is strange, because it is such a little lack of generosity not just to recognise that this proposal is good and then get it voted through. There is such a partiality in the Minister's argument, because in general the Minister is positive about the points contained in the motion for a resolution and the Minister will not follow it anyway. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143813	What is the problem here is, in fact, to a large extent that EU citizens have a particularly advantageous legal position, and we need to take that into account. Having said that, I hope that Mr. Christian Langballe will therefore look forward to the government putting forward a bill which the Danish People's Party will then be able to support with a guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143838	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143840	But I also think we can agree on even with the ideas about the special legal certainty of European citizens that people should be shown out of the country when they commit crime, even if they come from an EU country. I think they should be deported. Why wouldn't they? And then again: I think it is strange that you cannot just endorse this resolution. We think this is a very good proposal. And that would be such a gesture in relation to some points of view that you yourself have also had in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429143916	I could simply rely on the answer I gave just now, namely that Mr. Christian Langballe then, when we arrive in the autumn, will be able to support the proposal put forward by the government. But there's a small part of this proposal that makes it impossible. And then perhaps one can also discuss whether it should be in a motion for a resolution. It is such a little more technical that one should examine the possibilities of tightening up further. Not that I disagree with that, but the question is whether it belongs here. But I am at least one hundred percent sure that when we reach the autumn, the government will come up with a bill that the Danish People's Party will vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144000	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144003	Thank you. I would like to ask a question about paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution. Of course, I recognise the Minister's response to that, i.e. that you cannot because of EU law and so on. But what is interesting is whether Denmark could do anything to work to change the rules of the European Union, so that, for example, there is a difference between the two. is not the free movement of criminals. I am very much in favour of the free movement of labour and goods, but I am very little in favour of the free movement of criminals. Then could something be done there, in other words at EU level?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144038	We'll always be able to think about that. I have thus seen the same view, namely that it is good that so-called ordinary people and goods and economic conditions can move freely across European borders, but as far as criminals are concerned, things may be a little different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144104	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144107	But what I was thinking was that if we are now a majority in agreement on paragraph 1 and want Denmark to work to tighten up at European level in relation to paragraph 2, then it might well be that a majority in the Folketing could make a report that could then support that some common things were done. Then everyone could be happy, and perhaps we could even change something in the real world, perhaps not so quickly, because the European Union is always working slowly, but still. So it was such a more communication between the Danish People's Party and the Left's thoughts, for it is after all the Liberal Alliance's greatest task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144143	Funny enough, I always thought that the Liberal Alliance's greatest task was to lower taxes, but that's where I've been completely wrong. I've been completely wrong about that. But, of course, I will consider Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144159	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144202	Thank you. What we are proposing, also in relation to paragraph 2, which is the part where the Minister makes reservations, as I understand the Minister, is a roll-back to what was in force under the former VK government. So I really find it hard to understand why one cannot support that part of the proposal, since even in the past one has, so to speak, been the banner leader of that part of the proposal, so the Minister must make a few comments on that. Whatever the case, does the Minister not consider that, in principle, it is deeply problematic that it appears that the EU is preventing a majority in the Folketing from carrying out the restrictions on criminal foreigners that one must understand there are actually a great many parties that want to implement? Is that not in principle wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144243	In fact, we are in favour of restoring the legal position to the same legal position that was in force in 2011, and the Danish People's Party will be able to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144301	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144302	Yes, but it has also been part of the legal situation in the past that the expulsion rules in relation to the possibility of granting conditional expulsion included EU citizens. So if you want to roll it back to the state that was in force in 2011, you have to roll that part back, because it was in effect in 2011. However, if the Minister now says that we must not do so because there has been a new development in relation to the EU's view that this should no longer be done, then my question is: does the Minister not think that it is in principle wrong for the European Union to prevent a majority in the Folketing from tightening the expulsion rules as much as the majority actually want to tighten them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144335	At any rate, I would say that no one can be in doubt that it is inappropriate when criminals cannot be deported. That is why we will also be tabling a legislative proposal, which I also mentioned earlier when we arrive in the autumn, and I would say that one hundred per cent guarantee will be a bill that the Danish People's Party will also be able to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144403	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and that is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144426	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers wish to amend the legislation on foreigners consisting of a three-step rocket, as the Minister has explained in detail. Let me make it quite clear that we Socialists want criminal foreigners who can be expelled from Denmark to be expelled from Denmark. What can legally support this, we support as a party. After all, we supported the initial tightening up of the legislation we are discussing here today, and when the law was amended, it was not about the fact that it would be harder to expel criminal foreigners; it was only about the recommendation we received from the European Commission and about correcting legislative ambiguity. The legal assessment was at that time that the change would not affect the practice of the courts in relation to the expelling of criminal aliens. After all, it is the courts that are making the concrete assessment of whether the expulsion of a foreigner convicted of crime is contrary to Denmark's international obligations. We do not want to stand in the way of legislative initiatives to ensure the effective expulsion of foreigners, so we would like to support this proposal if it does not legally leave us with the same problems and ambiguity as the last adjustment. That is why we would ask the Minister to answer questions following today's debate. If we are certain that this does not present legal challenges, we support it. Alternatively, together with the government, we would like to find a new wording that supports the expulsion of criminal foreigners. In these words, we Socialists fully support the intention of the proposal, but our support depends on the Minister's assessment of the legality of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144626	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144630	Thank you very much. I appreciate that the rapporteur would like to make it easier to expel criminal foreigners. But in 2011 there was a situation where a Somali boy raped a 10-year-old Danish girl. The Somali boy was deported, but because of the relaxation made by the rapporteur's government in 2013, which just removed the two words with certainty when it came to expelling criminal foreigners, that is because it was contrary to Denmark's international obligations, this boy could not be expelled. Can the rapporteur clarify whether anything has changed in relation to the policy of the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144718	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144720	Let me make it quite clear to the rapporteur of the Left that we Social Democrats want criminal foreigners who can be expelled from Denmark to be expelled from Denmark. And what can legally support it is that we support as a party. That is why we are also constructively involved in the discussion of this motion for a resolution, B-75.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144747	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144748	The rapporteur said before that the relaxation that the rapporteur's government made when the Socialists had the power of government would have no real effect on the issues that have been involved. That has not proved to be the case, among other things. Because this boy couldn't be expelled from Denmark after raping a mere 10-year-old girl. Does the rapporteur therefore regret the amendment made when the Socialists sat with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144819	No, it would not be appropriate to make such a statement. But at this point it is important to say that we will not stand in the way of legislative initiatives to ensure the effective expulsion of foreigners. And that is the point, motion for a resolution No. B 75, which we have here today, concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144842	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Sorry, sorry, we shouldn't skip the Left, that's wrong. I'm sorry, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429144917	Thank you. Since the former S-R-SF government relaxed the expulsion rules of the Aliens Act, we have seen grotesque examples of criminal foreigners that the courts cannot expel. In particular, I am thinking of a head-shaking case from 2011 - the one I mentioned before - where a Somali boy raped a mere 10-year-old Danish girl near a playground. He was convicted, also for other violations and attempts at violations, and was in the process of expulsion. However, because the S-R-SF government had just completed one of their many reliefs in the field of foreigners, the Somali could not be expelled precisely because these two words had been introduced with certainty when it comes to assessing whether we are in breach of our international obligations. Thus a rapist in Denmark became thanks to the relaxed S-R-SF policy. It is precisely this rule change that is part of the extensive austerity that we in the Left warned to implement before we went to elections. That is exactly how the legislation was during the last part of the VK period in the zeros, where we just tightened up on exactly this area, which was then rewinded by S, R and SF. So for the Left, that part of the proposal makes really, really sense. It's taken directly from our own toolbox. We would like to help give the courts the same powers that they had under the VK government. In other words, we still want the courts to be able, as far as possible, to expel foreigners who are being punished for crimes in Denmark, with the exception, of course, that the courts must be able to assess with certainty whether this is contrary to Denmark's international obligations. Unfortunately, the proposers go further in this motion for a resolution. Maybe it is to tease the Left, it could just be a hypothetical idea. The Danish People's Party proposes an extended regime, so that the rules on expulsion also apply to foreigners covered by EU rules. That part, of course, cannot be supported by the Left for the simple reason that EU citizens enjoy special rights in Denmark and in the European Union. EU citizens who commit crimes in Denmark can thus be punished according to other rules. As far as the last point is concerned, the Left, as the Minister has mentioned before, agrees that we must continue to examine as far as possible how much we can tighten up while remaining within the international commitments. The work of the government is already under way, and the Left will continue to support it. As a Parliament, we have a responsibility to protect the legal certainty of the Danes. The legal certainty believes the Left suffered a crack when the former S-R-SF government relaxed the rules of expulsion. That is why we have reported today that we are bringing in our own legislative proposal, which in turn ensures that foreign criminals, such as the rapist from Somalia, whom I told you about before, can again be expelled as far as possible. However, the Left cannot support the resolution as a whole, as parts of the proposal are considered to be in breach of EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145228	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145231	We in the Danish People's Party are not out to tease the Left; we just want to put them on better thoughts, because that is what this is all about. What I would like to discuss and discuss is this relationship with regard to freedom of movement and EU law. In fact, I believe that there are some links with freedom of movement, both with regard to Schengen's external borders, which are not guaranteed, and also with the fact that criminals, because they are covered by EU law, can simply enter and leave the country. That's disgusting. Why can we not impose sanctions to protect the Danish people from criminals in a situation where criminals simply cannot go and go, even if they are covered by EU law? I think there are many who think that is incredibly strange. After all, it is quite wrong to use freedom of movement. It is said that as long as you are covered by EU law, you can, so to speak, do what you want. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145336	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145337	I therefore share the rapporteur's concern, but we are in a situation where we are a member of an EU where citizens have special rights. One could also go one step further and say that Danes in Denmark also have special rights, and therefore you can e.g.. do not expel a Dane in the same way as you can with a non-EU citizen. The situation is that we are part of an EU that contributes incredibly positively to Denmark, but there are also some hags in some places. We have recently announced that we want to reform the European Union so that it becomes a leaner European Union, a more effective European Union. I want a constantly evolving European Union, and if we can do something to tighten this up, I think we should do it too, but this is just not going to happen in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145415	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145417	I am sorry, but there is only a difference between Danish citizens and the criminals who may be among them, I would say to the rapporteur. But that does not mean that we should not be able to say to criminals around Europe if they commit repeated crime in Denmark that we do not want them within our borders. That is a completely different question. And I just think that what it has shown is that freedom of movement rests on a utopia, because it also creates the free movement of criminals. And I believe that we have to take a position on this. I also think that, as a merchant government, you have to say that you will not put up with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145500	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145501	I would now say that freedom of movement has contributed incredibly positively to both the Denmark and the Europe we have today, including trade, including cohesion in Europe. That is not to say that there can be no problems in it, but we can still get away with good punishments and repatriations for serving in certain cases within the framework of the European Union. So there are opportunities and there are opportunities that I think we can look at to tighten up, but that will not even be part of the move that we are making, where we want to restore the relaxation that the SRSF government brought in during their reign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145535	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145539	Thank you very much. Could the rapporteur not try to be a little clearer as to why it is that the Left will not vote to look at further tightenings? I would like the rapporteur to put a little more words on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145551	You have to be careful not to charge directly. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145554	I am not sure I understand the question correctly. With regard to the part that is about tightening up in relation to the expelling of criminal foreigners who are not EU citizens, it is also one of the things we are dealing with here and is one of the things the Minister has been out with this morning, and I say that this is precisely a tightening-up that we would like to make. In addition, in relation to paragraph 3 of this proposal, the Minister also said that we would like to look more specifically at tightening up. On the whole, I believe that freedom of movement is a slightly greater discussion than the one we are going to go into in depth with here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145627	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145629	But does the rapporteur recognise that it is this European Union which, like this Parliament, is preventing us from making some sort of austerity that we really wanted to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145641	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145642	In relation to being able to expel criminals EU citizens, we enjoy EU citizens, too, in the case of the rapporteur and myself, if we go to France and if we go to England, some special rights that only apply to EU citizens. And when it comes to the rest of the very large world community, it is, of course, that we want to be able to tighten up the rules to the maximum. In the long term, of course, we can have a dialogue on what we can do within the framework of the European Union, but, as I said, these are two different discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145713	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, and then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145726	In the summer of 2012, the Danish Parliament, with the votes of Enhedslisten, decided to amend the text of the law on expulsion, where the words were safely removed from the sentence, which reads: unless this will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. The government then explained that the change would not result in fewer expulsions, but that the government, with the change, would stress that the courts should make a concrete assessment of the compatibility of expulsion with the conventions which Denmark has signed. We in the Enhedslist agree with that emphasis. For the Enhedslisten, it is important that the courts have a mandate to carry out concrete assessments and that they are not bound on the hands and feet of the legislature. The division of power is important in a democracy, and that is why we want to help ensure the right balance between the legislature and the judiciary. More generally, I have to say that in the Enhedslisten we are not in favour of tightening the rules on expulsion. They have been sharpened several times over the last few decades, and we have seen examples of people who have lived their entire lives in Denmark or have come here when they were quite small being sentenced to expulsion. We have the basic view that people belong in Denmark, if they are born or raised here, and if they commit crime, they must be punished, but they should not be punished more severely than other people who, like them, have grown up in Denmark but who have Danish citizenship. In essence, expulsion should not be used against citizens who have their fundamental roots in this country and who have little connection with the country from which their parents originally came. So Enhedslisten cannot surprisingly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145912	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429145930	There are many good elements in the proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here. In relation to the first, we are fully involved in adjusting the expulsion rules. In relation to the other, I have suggested earlier in the debate here today that we could possibly end the discussion of the resolution with a report in which we agreed to oblige the government to work to expand opportunities in the European Union, and we should have a common interest in finding that. Because we can easily vote for this, but it could end up being just a blow to the air, and if we did something about it, it might be better. Then, in relation to paragraph 3, I need to find out exactly what the Danish People's Party is thinking. Because I have also been able to read the comments, and there you can see something as rare as that it seems that the proposal and the comments are identical. So it is not really going to be clarified what we have been thinking about in paragraph 3, i.e. whether we think that there is something that some people can do in the future that they cannot do today. I think I can figure it out a little, but I would like the rapporteur, when he comes up and gives his final speech, to perhaps do a little by telling us what they might be able to do. We have seen a positive approach to the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party, but we would also like to extend our arms to the cooperation we have talked about. And, of course, the minister is right that the tax relief is one of the most important things I shouldn't belittle in any way, and I think there may also be a connection between the two things, i.e. the tax reliefs and the good cooperation between DF and Left, but let's look at it later. But I would like to extend my hand to the fact that, if that were the way forward, a report could be prepared instead, in order to make the views come to fruition. So I really think that the proposers should consider whether we could make a joint report, which could be a majority in favour, so that we can also move forward with that paragraph 2 and it will not just be a blow to the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150143	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150207	The motion for a resolution contains a general tightening of the rules on expulsion as a result of such a more narrow interpretation of our international obligations. For the alternative, support for, and respect for, our international commitments, including respect for the human rights conventions, is vitally important, especially at times such as those that are now, among other things, the refugee situation. the waves go high and where we feel pressured as a society that we need the conventions. They exist to ensure legal certainty, which is why we do not want to compromise with them. We do not believe that the conventions should be amended, as the authors of the motion state in their comments on this proposal. We do not think we should push on them, so you are as close to the border as you can walk. Instead, we think that we should cooperate better on them internationally and ensure that we take the lead ourselves and provide the best legal protection for the individual and that it is important that it is a concrete assessment that is being made. Thus, which may come as no surprise, we cannot support DF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150323	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150342	Radical Left sees this as a parade proposal. It is a proposal for legislation for the sake of the symbol, because we have rules to expel foreigners who commit crime, unless that is contrary to our international obligations. We have those rules. Therefore, it is purely beating on the chest to introduce it unless it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. Today, the director of the Institute of Human Rights in Jutland-Posten points out that many years of practice at the Supreme Court and at the Court of Human Rights are more crucial to the outcome of a case than two additional words in the law on foreigners. According to Mikael Sjöberg, President of the Court of Justice, neither the introduction nor the abolition of the security clause has had an impact on practice. He says in today's newspaper: "We noted that the provision came in and came out again, but it did not have any impact on practice... We maintained the usual strict practice. To another part of the proposal, namely the fight against the annoying habits of criminals and their cross-border movement, I would like to suggest that the Danish People's Party should take seriously their promise to the Danish people that Denmark will remain a member of the pan-European police and investigation cooperation. We look forward to this because crime moves across borders, regardless of what expulsion rules we have. It can only be combated through cross-border cooperation and at the very best in Europol. Finally, in the Radical Left, we are committed to protecting our fundamental rights in Europe, in the world. But the European Convention on Human Rights came into being because, after two world wars in Europe, we looked each other in the eye and said: never again will we slaughter or persecute each other as peoples, never again will we do so, and we promise that we will provide protection to anyone else who risks death, torture or persecution. That is the third part of the proposal that I am dealing with here. We must take care of our human rights, not undermine them. That is why we are not surprisingly opposed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150627	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150630	I do not understand how the rapporteur can say that this is symbolic policy. Now I don't want to recount the whole story I made before with the Somali boy who raped a ten-year-old Danish girl. However, the relaxation which the rapporteur's government helped to introduce was a direct reason why this rapist could not be expelled from Denmark. That was the direct cause. That is what was given as the cause. How can the rapporteur stand and say that this is symbolic policy when there is a rapist walking around in Denmark as a direct result of the relaxation brought by the rapporteur's government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150701	I think the questioner apparently overheard my quote from the President of the Court of Justice, Mikael Sjöberg, who very much questions the case which Mr. Marcus Knuth just referred, and very clearly says that repealing the provision has had no impact on the practice. It is maintained as strict practice. At the same time, the Director of the Institute for Human Rights says that it is many years of practice and judgments of the Supreme Court and the Court of Human Rights that determine the outcome of a case. That's what I'm referring to. We in the Radical Left do not need to deal with process risks or other fine words. We need to respect our fundamental international commitments. And no, that doesn't mean there's any sympathy for criminals. We do this for the sake of all citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150810	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150811	In other words, the rapporteur is more concerned about the rights of criminal foreigners and the possibility of staying in Denmark, so that in this case we have a rapist walking around in Denmark? Is it more important than the safety of young Danish girls in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150827	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150829	I think it is so inconvenient for the debate that it should be conducted at that level. I think I just said quite clearly that I am deeply concerned about the fundamental legal certainty of all Danes and all citizens. With the European Convention on Human Rights, we looked into each other and said that we are giving these rights to each other and we are giving them to all who seek protection from war, death, destruction or persecution. That's pretty good. We did that after two world wars. I wish to pay tribute to those rights and international obligations, not to those of the criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150910	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429150913	Thank you. Nevertheless, I would venture to remain a little on the same track, because I also thought I heard the rapporteur talking about protection and thus, in that case, the protection of the criminal. The last question raised by the rapporteur was to say that it is, of course, protection from war and destruction. But what about the protection of the Danish people? What about the young girls being raped? What about the people who are being robbed at home and tied up? It happens to older people, and we hear about everything else. How does the rapporteur view their protection? The more criminals we cannot expel from Denmark and who live on tolerated residence, the more people walk around, which may be a nuisance and danger to the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151000	Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151002	Fortunately, we have criminal law in Denmark, with which we punish foreign criminals, just as we punish people with Danish ethnic background who cannot be put anywhere else than in Danish prisons, based on the sentences handed down. That is why we are protecting Danes with the obligations, with the legislation we are adopting here. What I'm concerned about isn't the criminals at all. I am concerned about the very Danes whom we all want to protect and which we also protect with our international obligations. We also protect them from war, death, destruction, torture and persecution with international obligations. After all, we have just assumed them because we are obliging each other across countries in Europe not to expose each other to this, and we are protecting people who come to Europe from it. If you first compromise with them, we in the Radical Left believe that we are going far down a slippery slope.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151120	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151123	It is not entirely unknown that some of the people who live in Denmark and have lived here for many years on tolerated residence do not stop with a single criminal act. It is not the case that they are being punished and that they are then done with some kind of violence, crime, assault or whatever it might be. The rapporteur must surely agree with me that it must be more protective for the Danish people that they can at least be escorted out of our country so that they are no longer a nuisance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151152	All crime is unacceptable. Anyone who threatens citizens living in Denmark, whether they have Danish citizenship or not, should be punished. This applies, of course, to all kinds of threats, oppression, violence and crime committed against everyone in this country. What I am concerned about here, and what I believe is being undermined by this motion for a resolution, is the common rights that we have through our international obligations as Danes and in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151229	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151238	In the SF, we support the intention to send criminal foreigners home quickly, which is why we are also ready to discuss how to tighten up the rules to expel criminals. In 2011, we helped tighten up the rules together with a broad majority in the Folketing. We were actually helping to write in this with the fact that it had to be written with security. Later on, when we have been mentioned several times, including by the rapporteur of the Left, who helped to change the rules again, so that it did not stand there, it was because the former Minister of Justice received a recommendation from the European Commission that it was not in line with the EU's residence directive. Now I can hear from the Minister for Integration that a new proposal will be put forward, which will re-enter with security. And if it is the case that the Minister can put forward a proposal that does not mean that we will be overruled by the European Court of Justice, we will probably look positively at such a proposal. In addition, it is also very important for us with a consultation period where we can discuss the consequences of the tightening and we can discuss whether the tightening will work and whether there are other things that can be done. The part that is about pushing on based on our international commitments, I do not buy in this case. I can be nervous in other cases where the Danish People's Party is tabling resolutions on international obligations, but here I am actually confident that the courts can assess when they break international obligations. So I think this is sending a signal, and we would like to help discuss how to get criminal foreigners home more quickly. We must take good care of the people who really want Denmark, and there are plenty of foreigners. Sometimes I actually think the media forget to tell about the many foreigners who really want Denmark and who make a huge difference to Denmark. On the other hand, SF would like to join in saying that those who do not want Denmark, those who commit crime, we would like to get back more quickly to where they come from. So we do not support this motion for a resolution, but we welcome the forthcoming negotiations to include it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151502	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151511	We very much agree that foreigners who do not contribute positively to Danish society are not welcome. We also very much agree that criminal foreigners should be expelled as soon as possible. It is sometimes grotesque for us to display well-functioning schoolchildren and superstudents for bureaucratic reasons, and then we have a lot of habit criminals that we cannot get rid of. This is particularly true of those who are on toil, murderers, drug offenders, paedophiles. They are on toiled stays and continue their criminal activities. It is devastating for Danish society. It is devastating for many immigrants who live in Denmark and who are law-abiding and contribute positively. We agree with the Danish People's Party in the first part of the resolution that non-EU citizens should be expelled immediately unless this is certainly contrary to international obligations. With regard to the second part, which is therefore about EU citizens, we would really like the criminals to be expelled as well. Here we would like to wait for the government to bring forward the bill announced by the Minister in his speech. Actually, we have two wishes. The first is that the draft law requires initiatives to prevent criminals from returning to Denmark. They're part of crime statistics. Recently, the Minister for Justice was out to say that one in four of those who are brought before a judge are foreign, many of whom are Romanians. That simply cannot be right. Romania is an EU country. They must be sent back immediately. Then it is the case that the Danish courts impose an entry ban on Eastern European criminals, but in the real world, the experience shows, these entry bans are not worth much, because they return. Last year, figures from the National Police showed that there are up to 500 of those who have been deported who had come back legally. We want the government to come up with initiatives to do something about this. We want their countries to be pressured to accept them so that they can serve there. The second wish we have is for those who are on tolerated stays. We believe it is important to initiate a process of making diplomatic guarantees with their original countries of origin so that they can be removed from the country. More of them do nothing but just continue their criminal activities. They need to get out as soon as possible. So we hope that this autumn, when it comes to the bill, the government will also include our two wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151818	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429151826	Thank you. And thank you for the positive statements. Although one senses that, unfortunately, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative do not support the proposal, at least a number of other parties indicated that they were in favour of tightening the expulsion rules, even in the form we are proposing here by the Danish People's Party, then in other ways, and I would like to sign for that. After all, everything suggests that in some form there will be a majority to tighten the rules on expulsion, and that is positive, because there is no need to protect criminal foreigners from expulsion. We in the Danish People's Party believe that the courts at home interpret the conventions too restrictively, resulting in an unnecessary high level of protection against expulsion. In the Danish People's Party, we have the view that we would like to discuss the conventions.Some of them we would like to denounce as well, but regardless of the discussion, it is quite ridiculous that, if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament wishing to expel more criminal foreigners, the courts do not do so because they have too restrictive an interpretation of the conventions. It can be said that the first logical step, if you are to expel more criminal foreigners, is to use the room for manoeuvre that is actually within the conventions, and it is our view in the Danish People's Party that this is not being done at present. So that should be the first step on the road. Among other things: That is why the authors of the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party, also want a revision of the European Convention on Human Rights, for example, but the resolution is primarily about reintroducing two provisions that have previously been in the law, so it is quite clear to the courts that expulsion must always take place unless this is certainly contrary to Denmark's international obligations. And then we want the conditional expulsion rules to apply also to foreigners who are subject to EU rules. We in the Danish People's Party will work to obtain a majority in favour of the proposal, and we are therefore considering tabling amendments. We may also have to submit a report in committee if there is a majority in favour of it. In any case, we hope that in some form here in the Folketing we can help to impose a bill on the government which tightens the rules on expulsion. We also think that it would be very good for the Danish People's Party to be able to make such a bill before the summer holidays, because this is a relatively simple change in the rules on expulsion, which is being proposed in relation to the legal clause at least. Then Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll asked a question about paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution, which was concerned with what the Danish People's Party thinks and it is of course quite relevant to ask what the Danish People's Party thinks. The motion for a resolution states that we want to impose on the government as a (3) to examine the possibilities of further tightening up, among other things. on the basis that the Council of Europe has amended the preamble to the European Convention on Human Rights with the aim of stressing the principle of subsidiarity....In the Council of Europe a number of amendments have been made to the European Convention on Human Rights and, in the light of a request from the United Kingdom, the preamble to the Convention has been amended, and what has been done is that the preamble has emphasized and what was thought by the British and which was supported by the Danish delegation in the Council of Europe and the Danish Government. was ensured that there was greater scope for expelling criminal aliens. So that part of the resolution is simply about examining the extent of the room for manoeuvre. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429152146	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429152202	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429152227	Thank you. The race has been long, too long, but now we are finally taking the first step towards traffic equality to our islands. It can't be right that it should be so expensive to sail to Denmark's beautiful islands that for a family it has sometimes been cheaper to fly to Mallorca than to spend the holiday here in Denmark on one of our islands • that it should be so expensive to transport itself back and forth and thus live and live on Bornholm, Samsø, Ærø, Læsø, Fanø or some of our other smaller islands, so it hampers development. However, this has been the case in some places, and prices have been allowed to rise to a great extent, so it has become a major barrier to growth, migration, tourism and industry in our islands. This needs to be done, and we are now taking a step towards doing so. Many political parties tend to praise themselves when things like this happen. But self-esteem is now never very pretty, and in fact those who deserve the praise today are all on the Danish islands • all those who have worked seriously, purposefully and across all of Denmark to get this on the agenda. You've kept on producing results, and you deserve a huge thank you for that. As the island mayors and the Association of Danish Small Islands said with one voice to a hearing we had in here, transport is absolutely essential to creating development and jobs in the islands. This bill brings in 95 million annually. kr. to reduce the fare to our ferries. About half of that amount comes from the previous government's growth package, and the other half of what can be called new money. So it's undoubtedly a step forward... a Band-Aid on the wound. But is that good enough? Is the crotch big enough? Are we getting cheaper tickets that can be felt out there in tourism, in growth opportunities, in relocation? Yes, we can rewind the time exactly one year back and see what a large number of Left politicians thought back then. When the former Social Democratic and Radical Government set aside 133 million. kr. For the same purpose, the Left in opposition called our proposal unambitious. I quote from the Left when they were in opposition: we believe that the price should also be reduced during the holiday period. The so-called road principle is exactly the model we should have. Then some say we need money, but look, guys, that's what you always say. That money thing is just something you use as an excuse. The quotations are from the current Minister for Transport and the then rural rapporteur. So back then, just a year ago, 133 million. kr. Too little according to the Left; at that time the road principle of full road equality was to be found according to the Left; and at that time the money was just a bad excuse according to the Left, I guess, to mark the Left before the election. Today, as you know, the Left is in government, and I must promise that there will be something different tones. Now the same party, the same politicians, says that there can be no more than 95 million. kr., half of which was already in the account. Perhaps that is why the mayor of the Left on Fanoe says, and I quote: "There is a long way from what we were looking forward to. Of course, we are disappointed in that. It's a vow. ▪ Quote: Erik Nørreby, Mayor of the Left on Fanoe, in February this year. Whether this is an honest way of conducting politics is a matter between the Left and the mayors of the party and, of course, up to the voters to assess. I would like to focus on the fact that the amount is less than what we ourselves played out with, I suppose the proposal is limited to fewer months a year, and surely we will not get traffic equality with this proposal. However, we are taking a step in the right direction and this is important for us Socialists. Denmark is an island kingdom, it helps shape who we are. The Danish islands tell the story of a small country to the north, which we also sing about in the national anthem. With this proposal, it will be a little cheaper to sail back and forth, and we Social Democrats support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429152638	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429152650	It's a lovely day today. The sun sometimes shines, it's Friday, and soon the islands will have a giant discount on their ferry tickets. We could hardly find a better way to go this weekend. Two years ago, when I stood on the platform and as the first politician brought up the subject of traffic equality in the Parliament, I did so with the hope that one day the other politicians would also see that it is important for us to have equal treatment for the islands with the rest of the country, so that it costs no more to sail to the islands than it costs to drive the same route on the road. It is still the aim of the Danish People's Party that we should have full transportal equality of the islands. I and the Danish People's Party will continue to fight for this, and we will not stop the fight until a majority in the Danish Parliament has accepted that the water is the islander's road and that it is therefore important that we align the blue road with the grey road. For our islands, something we can be proud of. Our islands are small sustainable communities that are teeming with enterprising people, and we need them. We do not want fire-souls to move out of the islands because of poor infrastructure, nor do we want tourists to opt out of the islands because it is simply too expensive to get there. No, we want a society in which our islands function as sustainable full-year communities all year round, a society in which young families with children have ample opportunity to look after a job outside the island, and a society in which economy is no obstacle to visiting an island. Today, we can rejoice that we are taking a big step in the right direction: the biggest passenger discount ever given it is really, really nice. So today we are embarking on the journey where the ultimate goal is full transport equality, and I hope it will be a very short journey which will end next year's Finance Act. Because we cannot afford to stand idly by while there is a depopulation of the islands that gallops faster than in even the most vulnerable rural areas. With regard to the proposal here, we have chosen to grant a subsidy which will enable prices to be reduced from March until the summer break and then again from the end of the summer break in August until November. We have chosen to put it all the way to the islands, whether they want to make full use of the discounts throughout the period, whether they want to give full traffic equality for a shorter period or whether they want to grant all the discounts for camping tourism or cyclists or whatever they want to do. Because we believe that on the islands they are much smarter than we are to find out what works best for their island. Unfortunately, however, I also know from bitter experience that the creativity of the municipalities with small islands is quite impressive when it comes to channelling money to ferry services everywhere else in the municipality. That is why we have ensured that the money here can only be used to reduce fares, nothing else, and I think that the small islands are basically grateful for that. So today we are taking a major step towards road equality. We're not there yet. We still need to get to an island no more expensive than to drive the same route on a road. But when you have a goal, you should also remember to rejoice at the milestones you are going to achieve, and with this proposal we are taking a big step in the right direction. I look forward to seeing the results of this when it will be cheaper to travel to the islands as early as August. So in the Danish People's Party we naturally support the proposal, which is a partial response to the initiative taken by the Danish People's Party two years ago, while at the same time we kindly point out to the government that there is still some way to go before we are fully in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153110	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153118	Thank you. As the previous two rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law deals with lower tariffs for cars, passengers, etc. on non-state ferry routes to and from islands. As has also already been mentioned, the proposal translates part of the agreement into growth and development throughout Denmark. It is gratifying in every way that the government once again supports the well-known goal of growth throughout Denmark, and that with the bill today we do so across all parties. Specifically in relation to this proposal, for too long there has been the problem that it was too expensive to get to and from the Danish islands, a problem that slows down both growth and development on the islands. Of course, this is not appropriate either for the islands themselves or for the population composition, settlement and development of the tourism sector. The adoption of the legislative proposal does not, of course, mean that we are immediately creating growth and increasing population growth in the islands, but it is a step in the right direction. Similarly, we are not in line with the so-called road principle, as the two previous rapporteurs also mentioned, but with this proposal we are certainly taking a step in the right direction, and that is crucial. And on that basis, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153302	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153307	Thank you. After all, I quoted the Left in my rapporteur's speech, and it was because this is something we have been discussing for a long time. Left they called 133 million. kr. that we played out with, too unambitious, but you're not doing quite as much as you promised before the election. The Left rapporteur also said that this was a first step, which is why I just want to hear: when are you going to live up to your election vows and take some new steps?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153335	Thank you. And we should not use direct indictment if we are to stick to the Rules of Procedure. And we have to do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153342	As the rapporteur also pointed out in his speech, half of the funding for this was in place, and that half has arrived later. The point is, on my part, that the proposal that came from the then government was not funded. Now we have jointly identified something that has been financed, and in the future there are financial challenges. That's why I can't tell you when we're ready for this. But let us find a common objective across the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153411	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153413	This can quickly become a long discussion. Our proposal was fully funded, but I can at least just say that the Finance Act, which the rapporteur's party has been involved in implementing, has been able to afford a lot of other things. Things like land guilt, housing employment, inheritance tax and registration tax have been spent on a lot of money. But you have not been able to find the money for road equality, as you promised, so I just have to hear the rapporteur: do we have to understand that these things have been more important for the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153441-2	There are good arguments for us to be in line with the so-called road principle in the long run, and there have been very good arguments for all the good proposals that are correctly part of the Finance Act. The housing job scheme has also been beneficial in promoting the common goal under the heading: growth throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153507	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429153517	It is, in fact, a series of very, very similar consultation answers that are available for the legislative proposal, and I was having a good time going through them in such a close way. It is fun to see how there are a whole series of wordings, all of which point to the fact that this is the beginning of the introduction of the road principle. In the consultations we can see that it is a question of starting, starting, early phase-in, an introduction, a step towards the full introduction of the road principle. I think that is really important to emphasise, that is to say that this is the expectation we have created on the islands. And that's kind of good, because this isn't traffic equality. Former rapporteurs have already pointed this out. This has nothing to do with the principle of road transport, and we are really very far from the principle of road transport when we look at funding. But a little is also right, and a little can also be regarded as a beginning, and I choose to do so, and so do I, along with all the representatives of the islands and islands, etc. etc. In the hearing of the Association of Danish Small Islands, they say that they are really concerned about whether they can actually call this a significant step forward on the funds that are being set aside, i.e. the 95 million. kr., as it is all about, is in fact an important step. And I think that is something that can be called into question. I also call it a very small start, especially in view of the fact that under the previous government, which we supported, a considerably larger amount had been set aside. So that's too bad. But, of course, the consultation answers welcome the proposal, and Enhedslisten also welcomes the proposal. It has been a long and a tough struggle to come here; it has taken and very much activity has been carried out and pressure has also been exerted, and it has therefore helped. And therefore there must also be a very, very great praise to island municipalities and the Association of Danish Small Islands and others, who have really exercised the whole palette of opportunities here. On the contrary, what Mrs Hjermind Dencker has also said does not stop until the principle of road transport has been introduced, and that is why we must also call for islands and the association of Danish small islands and all other good forces to continue the efforts to introduce the principle of road transport. After all, the government wants to know that they want growth throughout Denmark, and then it is really only about taking them at the word, even though the government's policy in other respects is moving in the opposite direction. It is also common in the many consultation responses that we would like to see the time limit lifted beyond the summer period, and I think we can really understand that point of view. It is pointed out that it is an administrative problem to have to change the tariffs four times a year. I think the Ministry's response in the consultation note is equally legal nonchalant. It's not a problem, you say. After all, it is municipalities and islanders and ferry companies who really know how it is going on out there in real life, so I thought it was just as cool enough. But in any case, since the amount is not quite as heavy as it should have been, it can also be lubricated so thinly that it is not really felt, especially if the amount is distributed equally on all means of transport, including the horses of the apostles. The aim of the bill is also to extend the tourist season, to strengthen tourism and thus to create more activity on the islands and, therefore, in the longer term, to provide a basis for more full-year residence. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for great sensitivity in the negotiations we have had on the draft law and to the flexibility that has been introduced into the draft law, so that it is left to local judgement to determine how the tariff reductions are distributed, both over the season and with the possibility of targeting funds on certain means of transport, and even on, for example. events on an island that require a little extended ferry service for a day or two, as can be seen from the reply to Haderslev Municipality in the consultation note. I think we are a little too restrictive on the use of unspent funds if, for example, an island is used. want to restrict car traffic or to reject cars altogether, because that can easily be a problem. I think we should be a little more open there, and if this happens on an island, I do not think there is any reason why surplus funds could not be used the following year for tariff reductions, but that they should lead to a reduction in the amount of the subsidy received. Because then you can get the exact composition of the tourist flow that you want locally. But this is a really good bill. It is only the beginning of full transportal equality of our many islands. The law must be evaluated after four years, and we think that is a good thing, because then there will be room for improvement, and the Minister should be praised for responsiveness and for having shown flexibility. And well, as elected in Esbjerg, to which Mandø belongs, I think it might have been possible to find a place for Mandø, and even if Mandø does not have a ferry, it is only possible to get there for a limited period, twice a year, via the Låningsvejen, and since it is a bill that aims to strengthen tourism, I think there could have been room for Mandø.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154045	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154049	It is hardly a secret that the Liberal Alliance is well pleased with the agreement underlying this proposal. Indeed, it had a great many fine elements: PSO incentives, reduced electricity tax for amusements, amendments to the catering law, the reduction of ferry tariffs that we are dealing with here and much more. This is pleasing, because in various ways initiatives facilitate the everyday life of citizens and businesses outside the largest cities. The agreement was given the name "Growth and development in the whole of Denmark" and it is our hope that it will give rise to just that. In relation to this part of the package, funds are being allocated for a permanent reduction in ferry charges for cars and passengers travelling to and from islands. As the Minister has pointed out, the initiative is particularly targeted at the low-season tourism in the spring and autumn, where there is the greatest potential to increase tourism in the islands. In this way the growth of tourism is supported and the encouragement of settlement on the islands is encouraged. We can, of course, support that and that is why the Liberal Alliance is voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154204	Thank you. As the other rapporteurs have said, the draft law provides for a permanent reduction in ferry tariffs for small islands during the shoulder season, in other words by way of school holidays. It is also seen as the first step on the way to a full phasing-in of the road principle on Danish small-scale beef ferries. At least that is something we can hope for, and that is what we are doing in the alternative. The full implementation of the principle of road transport was part of the Financial Bill proposed by the Alternative. The Danish small islands are important and identity-building parts of many Danish municipalities, and with this proposal the islands are drawn a little closer, and further opportunities are created for tourism and hopefully as a result also settlement in the small islands. In the negotiations, we asked some questions about the calculation model for grants to ferry companies, which, from our point of view, is not optimal. Unfortunately, the distribution model has been designed in a way that rewards ferry companies with disproportionate fares, which, on the other hand, means that municipally operated ferry companies, which have already prioritised low fares in favour of the islands, and which have thus used municipal crowns to support the island life, are penalised. This is not optimal, and a slight change was made to the calculation model, so that the ferry routes which received a very small grant in the first draft are now being increased to 20%. of turnover. Like others, we are also very pleased that the framework for the implementation of the aid by ferry companies in the negotiations has been made more flexible, so that it is possible for individual islands and ferry companies to find the solution that fits exactly with their territory, because it is important that we do not regulate in detail in this area too. I am therefore happy both as rapporteur for the Alternative, but also to a large extent as a representative of the municipality of Svendborg, where the islands have a strong and prominent role • we have three island routes from Svendborg • announce that the Alternative naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154416	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154439	Thank you. As the Radical Left rapporteur cannot be present now, I must say very briefly that we support the proposal because it is better than nothing. However, it is a bit funny that the grant goes from 16 March to 30 November, except for the summer holidays of schools. However, we understand that the six weeks are being dragged out, but it is a pity that we have not been able to find the last 50 million. kr., so you could get all year covered. We hope, then, that the government will be able to do so in a very short time. When new finance laws are negotiated, we believe that this should be completed. This is the beginning of a good solution, and we will take it with us. But we also support its completion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154524	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, it seems. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154546	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for the many complimentary words about islanders. I am very pleased about that. I'll take that back to Ærø when I get there tonight. Today we are discussing L 179, which is about the transport equality of the Danish islands, and that is something that the Conservative People's Party naturally supports. If we are to really create growth and development on our islands and preserve life there, we must have those payment rings around the islands well and thoroughly put into the grave, and we are taking the first step with the bill. For me as an eero-boy, it is really a great day, as it is for many other islanders in the kingdom. The fight for traffic equality began back in the 1980s and at that time it was not taken very seriously. Later on, the road principle has been mentioned several times in various reports on how to create a better basis for the peoples of the islands, but still without the islanders having felt any relaxation of the payment wall, on the contrary. The population figures on the islands have fallen over a broad bank, and thus the number of passengers to pay the bill for ferry transport has also decreased. The consequence has been escalating prices, which have now resulted in the creation of a wall of payments between the mainland and the islands, which has reached an unreasonable level. I am glad that everyone in here today can also see that something drastic has to be done about this so that we can reverse developments on our islands. The Danish islands are an important part of Denmark's culture and history, and the beautiful Danish islands probably have a special place in the hearts of many Danes. They also have this with the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we support those initiatives which, in a sensible way, help to create better conditions for residents and businesses in the islands. For me as an islander, the Danish islands are not just something special. One of them is my home, too. It is a home for me and my family, and it is also for thousands of other Danes who go to school and work and live on the islands all year round. And sometimes when I'm here in Copenhagen, I'm asked: Do you really live there all year round? Yes, I do. And so do thousands of other Danes. That is why the principle of road transport needs to be fully applied, because the main aim of the proposal is to extend the tourist season. This may make sense in the first place, but there are also companies and islanders who need to travel all year round, and they only get a limited benefit from the bill. So we have to move on. I think I speak on behalf of all the islanders when I say that the payment ring between the mainland and our islands is the biggest threat to our island communities in Denmark. Traffic equality is the answer to that. The principle of road transport must be implemented so that it will cost the same thing to sail one kilometre as it costs to drive one kilometre on the road. The first step was taken in 2015, when the road principle light was introduced for freight transport, so that business on the islands got a level playing field compared to their colleagues on the mainland. It was a step in the right direction. The next step will then be taken today, when the bill introduces the transportal equality of the islands during the shoulder season, and I know there are a lot of islanders who are happy about that. It will be a pleasure for you to invite your family and friends to visit for a few months of the year without having a guilty conscience about ferry prices, because that is how islanders feel today. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill, and we are also looking forward to working further to the full implementation of the road principle, as we know from, for example. some of our neighboring countries. For if we are to create a basis for growth and development on our beautiful islands, we must start by removing the pay rings that separate them from the mainland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, then, sir. Amstrup shown a small additional note. It's a little on the edge, but let's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154932	I'll be very brief. I would like to say from the SF's rapporteur that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154939	Thank you. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429154947	Thank you to the President for granting that derogation to the Alternative's rapporteur. Because that actually means that I can now stand here and see that there is broad support among all the parties in the Danish Parliament for this bill. I would like to thank you very much for that and I would also like to thank you for the commendation you have given me on this debate. Both during the negotiations and here today there has been a good and worthwhile debate on an area that means a great deal to really, very many people. I attach great importance to the fact that we are able to continue the good broad political cooperation in the field of ferries. This is of great importance for both business, a great many people and for the ambition we have to create growth throughout Denmark. In relation to the new system that we are dealing with today, I also hear an agreement that it is a system that will make a difference. Lower ferry tariffs will improve the opportunities for growth and development on the islands by supporting tourism and strengthening the full-year settlement. I hope that it will be possible to have a fairly rapid committee procedure for the further implementation of the initiative in the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155105	Thank you, Minister. And Mrs Lea Wermelin has just made a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155112	Thank you so much for letting me get to the bottom of this. I would just like to agree with some of what the rapporteur on the Enhedslist said, namely that during the consultation process it has become very clear that the Danish islands have a very great desire to move forward. There is a great pressure of expectation on us here in the Parliamentary Chamber to actually achieve fully in line with traffic equality. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister something. Because, as I mentioned from the platform, the Left promised to go further than what the government is proposing today, and I do not think the rapporteur of the Left was quite clear. So I should just like to ask the Minister: can the Minister tell us when the government will take the next step towards continuing the work that the Minister mentioned in his speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155205	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155206	I can tell you this: we do not have any current plans for this. With this bill we are taking an important step today, that is quite correct, but I must be honest and say that I cannot immediately see when a so-called next step can be taken. The public economy in Denmark is under pressure, and that is why I am not going to stand here today and set a date on when it will be possible to take the next step, which I hear there is a broad political desire to be taken. I respect that, but I certainly cannot give a date for when the economy will be there so that it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155245	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155247	After all, we did not get so close to a sense of when the Left intends to live up to the electoral promises. I therefore agree that there must of course be funding for transport equality, but we have just seen that the Left has been able to find money for everything else. My appeal to the Minister may well be that, as in the last Finance Act, it is not sung on, for example. the most expensive cars and the most expensive homes. But can the Minister then say whether, in relation to the work and the next step, he intends to take it during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155319	I would like to comment on the comment on electoral vows. Because I also noticed that Mrs Lea Wermelin quoted a good Mayor of the Left on Fanoe, whom I have not been particularly enthusiastic about. Because I think that exactly the statements he made were completely inappropriate in terms of taking responsibility for the big picture. And it is not about focusing in isolation on a desire for transport equality on the islands and that it should have happened yesterday, but about having respect for the fact that the economy should be linked. That is why I come no closer than saying that I hope this initiative will now be adopted. It certainly sounds that way, and I think that is extremely satisfactory. We've come a very good way with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155418	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak now, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155431	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429155453	Thank you. The proposer of B 100 suggests that the government make legislative changes which ensure that each case worker in the child field is allowed to deal with a maximum of 25 cases at a time. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ensure that the case workers in the municipalities do not have more cases than they can actually handle. The government very much agrees that large numbers of cases and work pressures must not have negative consequences for vulnerable children and their families. There is no doubt that it is of course important for the quality of the proceedings, how many cases the individual case officer is dealing with, but I believe that this is fundamentally wrong and that it is a wrong solution if we in the Danish Parliament introduce centrally established rules and detailed rules on how many cases the individual case officer in a municipality must sit with, because both the gravity of the cases, the organisation of the municipalities and the experience of the case officers have an impact on how many cases the individual case officer can handle. For example: it would not be reasonable to give a newly trained social worker the same number of cases as one that is more demanding and has many years of experience in the subject. And then there is a big difference between the cases that the case workers around the municipalities have to deal with; for example: A case in which a family applies for financial support for leisure activities will be dealt with more quickly than a case in which, for example, it is not possible to find a job. is concerned about a young boy who has increasing school absenteeism and incipient abuse and where there is a need to provide the family and the young person's conditions more closely. The municipalities are also organised very differently. In some municipalities, for example, you have. created specific notification units or receiving units that receive notifications and ensure that they are followed up. In other places there are case officers, such as: only deals with applications for additional cost services, while in other municipalities, once again, a case officer deals with everything in a case from start to finish. Therefore, we should not go and believe in Christiansborg that we can regulate everything down to the smallest detail. We are going to create an inflexible framework for the municipalities, which will ultimately result in both inappropriate use of resources and worse efforts for the child and the family. It is important that the solutions chosen by the municipalities are adapted to local conditions, and it is therefore no use that we force a municipality to employ many more social workers in the social administration if what the municipality needs are more educators. Therefore, the government has the basic view that the governance dialogue between the state and the municipality should focus on objectives and results. Local authorities should therefore, as far as possible, have the freedom of method and local policy room to choose the organisation and solutions best suited to the needs of individual municipalities and citizens. It is a municipal responsibility to ensure good processing in accordance with the law, and in it is also a responsibility to organise the work and work processes in an appropriate way, which ensures both fair working conditions for the employees of the municipalities and timely efforts for the individual child and the family. My responsibility and that of the Danish Parliament is, on the other hand, to ensure a good framework for the efforts of the municipalities, and I think we have actually done so. Together, we have created legislation that provides a clear framework for how municipalities should handle notifications and examine the conditions of children and families, and that emphasizes the concern for the child. The fact that there is general satisfaction with the rules is also the impression I get when I talk to municipalities and organisations in this area. We are currently seeing a significant movement in the municipal landscape, where many municipalities are busy redeploying and adapting in new ways precisely to strengthen preventive work and strengthen the quality of the case management. The municipalities have among other things: focus on the interdisciplinary cooperation, the close follow-up and contact with the family, but they also focus on case numbers, and in several places local guidelines are introduced on how many cases the individual case officer may deal with at a time. This is a development which I welcome and with great interest, because it is precisely an expression of local solutions that make sense in relation to the municipality's organisation and work organisation. It is also a development that meets with good support from the social workers, who are in favour of what is called the Swedish way of working, and it is something that can be felt by the municipalities, who are currently experiencing that exactly working in the Swedish way or according to the Herning model, or what you like to call it, has actually gone and become a competitive parameter when you are out to hire new case managers. It is basically healthy and a significant different starting point that there is something that the municipalities can actually see reason and take the initiative on their own than if it was something that was imposed from the central point of view. The proposers themselves also highlight the Herning model as a motivation for the motion for a resolution, and to this it is important for me to stress that what they do in Herning Municipality is not just to hire more case workers. In Herning, the whole effort has been redesigned towards the municipality's vulnerable children and young people and designed the work in a completely new way. This is true from casework to offerings, which basically means a completely different way of working and thinking about work. The municipality's range of offers has been extended to include several preventive interventions, and the case workers work much more interdisciplinaryly, follow up more frequently and have much closer contact with the family. All three limbs have a sufficient number of case officers, a different way of working and a specialized effort range is a basic prerequisite for what they do in Herning. And more case officers aren't doing it alone. The development taking place in Herning Municipality is at the same time a good example of how we in the Folketing should be careful to simplify things and believe that we can change the world with legislation alone. So the government's position is that we should support good and positive development in the municipalities, but that we should do so without detailed regulation. In fact, this is also the reason why the rate pool circle with the 2016 rate pool agreement set aside just under 100 million. kr. for e.g. the dissemination of the Herning model, and through an application pool, the municipalities can now receive both professional and financial support for a shift towards more preventive action. I think this is an example of a good approach, in which we can push for development and help change the practice of municipalities, without each time having to change legislation, because I believe that we cannot and must not legislate out of all problems. Instead, we need to have confidence that the municipalities can carry out their task within the existing framework, and then we need to support the ongoing development and push on so that more municipalities come along. In conclusion, yes, we agree that case pressure and poor working conditions must not have consequences for the children and families concerned, but we do not believe that rules on how municipalities should be organised or how many cases the individual case worker should have are appropriate or necessary. This is due to the difference in the complexity of the cases, which is due to gravity and, of course, also to the experience of the case workers. But this is also due to the importance of the municipalities having room for manoeuvre and freedom to organise work on the basis of local conditions, on the basis of considerations and ideas, so that a development such as that which started in Herning Municipality can shoot up, grow and spread. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160252	There is one brief comment, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160256	Thank you. And thank the Minister, if nothing else, for supporting the intention. I fully agree with what the Minister says about the fact that a great cause pressure must not lead to a bad working environment or to a worse treatment of cases because it affects children. The only problem is that it happens. The Labour Inspectorate ordered 16 municipalities last year. There were stories of case officers sitting with 90 cases. I mean, I wouldn't even know how to figure it out. And there were case officers who told me that they had cases lying for a year before they came to them. So there are some problems out there in the municipalities, and I am well aware that there has been an important step towards trying to help some municipalities with a bag of money to reschedule the effort, but that does not change the terrible situation we have out there, that is, that there are children falling through the system. Because if you're going to be able to do everything that the minister says you have to be able to do, besides having a maximum above the number of cases, that is to say more offers, multidisciplinaryity, to follow up more frequently, which I agree with, you have to have the time to do so. And that is why we believe that the basic conditions for using the Herning model and the Sweden model are that the case workers have time. So I would like to hear: what do we do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160430	What we do is that we work rock hard and continue to work rock hard on exactly the approach to the organisation of everyday life out there, and that you are inspired by how they have done it in Herning and in Sweden. It's very uplifting to notice that the municipalities that are actually doing this transformation also experience that it becomes an attraction parameter that it's attractive. It is important for a municipality to have skilled employees... It is one of the most important things for them that you work well at your workplace... so it must therefore be the local management of the municipality in question that has that responsibility. I simply cannot agree with that resolution in any way, so that a central initiative will help that development by setting the ceiling in that way. We do not know the details of the complexity of these cases. However, it is true that 16 municipalities have been ordered, and this must be taken seriously, and it is a municipal responsibility to respond to it and organise things in such a way that exactly the children who need that help also receive it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160543	The questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160547	I think that answer is a little mysterious because, as I hear the Minister, the Minister says that everything in the Enhedslisten's proposal is right, that is, that it is a prerequisite for changing and being inspired by the Herning model, the Sweden model is probably more correct, that there is a low number of cases per person. Caseworker. It is true that if these are very complex cases, they may have to have even fewer cases, but there is a limit, and I also hear that the Minister says that this is true. I just cannot understand how one can then continue to believe that local municipalities, which have been subject to cuts for years, and which now have to be subject to the government's re-priority contribution, suddenly raise some money to bring down the number of cases, especially given that this is nothing new. This is something the social workers have been saying for years is a problem and they have been calling and shouting at a ceiling for years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160647	I really think that my answer makes very good sense, because what Enhedslisten wants is that we say from a central point of view: max. Twenty-five cases. It goes without saying that this approach has a strangely costly direction, which, in isolation, only begins to look at the economy and the number of case managers, and that makes no sense in terms of converting efforts into preventive action, to the multidisciplinary approach, to the very thing that comes in in time and reacts in time. It does not make sense to think that we can achieve precisely that change from a central point of view with such a resolution, because it is not only the number of case workers alone who bring about the change that we have seen in Herning Municipality and which we see in a number of other municipalities that proactively go in and say that it also makes economic sense. It is both humane and financially responsible to reorganise the effort and organise everyday life in a way that actually succeeds with the early preventive efforts, so that it does not become very, very humane and costly cases here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160759	Thank you, Minister. There are no more right now, so we are going to start the rapporteur's speech. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429160821	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here obliges the government to make the necessary legislative changes, so that case officers in the field of children deal with a maximum of 25 cases at a time. Social democracy does not support the proposal, but it is important to say that all children deserve a good start to life. It is heartblood to break the negative social heritage, which is why it is so crucial that we, as a society, provide the best possible support for those children who are among the most vulnerable and vulnerable in our country. There are undoubtedly problems with overburdened case managers in some municipalities. It is a problem for the employees of social workers who experience frustrations and stress on their work, and then, of course, it is a problem if it has consequences for the vulnerable children and the families who need help. This is also the reason why we fought for funds to be set aside to spread the Swedish model or the Herning model, whether you want to go to the other municipalities in the country. 96 million kr. has been allocated from 2016 to 2019 for this work. We succeeded, and the model is now being tested in 33 municipalities across the country. The model walks on two legs. One is a reduction in the number of cases, and the other is a change in the way the work is done, so prevention and early action are central. It is therefore not only about fewer cases, it is also about working in a new way, and that work is going on, i.e. among other things. through the rate pool. The model has been a success in Herning. Several social workers have been invested, but the investment has quickly paid off, as the return on early intervention was greater than the cost of hiring more. Of course, we expect the model to be a success in the experimental municipalities as well, and that the municipalities can see that it is worth investing in changing the work. The authors of the motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten, in their comments on the motion for a resolution, state that, in addition to those included in the venture pool project, several municipalities have voluntarily followed the good example of Herning, and this is precisely what is at the heart of this, because the municipalities are on the right track and, rather than legislating, we believe that, in this situation, it makes better sense to support the process already under way in the municipalities of the country. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but we are, of course, following the work of the municipalities in changing their practices in this area, because there is no doubt that fewer cases, together with the focus on prevention and early action, are the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429161133	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429161143	Thank you, President. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party have a great deal of focus on the children and that everything must be done in the municipalities to avoid such a terrible child's case, because one child's case is too many. For this reason, the Danish People's Party has also had a register of notifications, just as we have been fighting for suspensive effect for many years. And now it looks like it's finally gonna work. In addition, Dansk Folkeparti is in the pool of movements, which has allocated 96 million. kr., as others have mentioned here before me, which is precisely used in this area to employ more social workers and for further training. Because it is important that we continue to have a strong focus on the children at risk. But a lot is also being done, a lot is being done in the municipalities, because a lot of municipalities have got the focus on improving the case management in children's cases, while the focus also has to be on preventive work and early work. A good example is the Herning model, which is mentioned time and time again. It is a model that also Hvidovre and Haderslev Municipalities are working on, at least something similar. In addition, 22 municipalities participate in a related reference network, which also aims to look at the preventive work and hence the case management. The Danish Social Advisor Association also recognises that there are initiatives in this area and finds that more social workers are being employed in the municipalities during these times. Are we then in line with the measures that have been taken? No, we certainly are not. The focus and dialogue with the municipalities must continue. However, we do not believe that imposing a ceiling on the number of cases for social workers is the right way to go. Firstly, the challenges in the individual municipalities differ greatly. Secondly, there may be considerable differences between cases according to the nature and complexity of the cases. Thirdly, many municipalities are rethinking their efforts towards vulnerable children and families, so why punish those who are already well under way? In the Danish People's Party we recognise that the municipalities have autonomy and are therefore responsible for organising the work so that the working environment for the social workers is satisfactory and children's cases are dealt with in accordance with applicable legislation. We thank the proposers for once again highlighting this important issue, but we end up saying that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429161427	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Carl Holst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429161440	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for tabling a resolution which draws attention to the negative consequences that the workload of the case workers may have for vulnerable children and their families. The motivation behind the proposal is certainly sympathetic, but the Left does not think it should be up to the Folketing to decide how many cases the individual case worker in a municipality should have, how many cases to sit with. It is a decision that the municipalities should make, and in this way the municipalities are guaranteed the maximum flexibility that several have also been involved in organising and carrying out their tasks in a way that will enable them to be solved. From this point of view, we need to focus more on output and not on process. With great flexibility, the municipalities have the optimal condition to be able to carry out the work of the case workers in a satisfactory and thorough manner, I hope. Then we have touched on the drawbacks of inflexibility and the link between heavy cases and light cases. However, having said that, both I and the Minister are probably doing so across the parties too, with great interest the municipal development that is already under way, partly in relation to the initiatives we have jointly taken to find solutions in this area and partly in relation to looking at a hopefully positive development in the years to come. Because we must support developments, but not necessarily legislate on them. So, as I said, I fully understand the motivation behind the proposal and I fully agree that the workload of the case workers must not have negative consequences for the children at risk and their families. We must not forget, however, that the experience of the case workers and the complexity of the cases vary greatly. This is precisely why it is important for municipalities to have the freedom to organise their work according to local conditions, local considerations and local judgements. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal. And I am also reporting this on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, whose rapporteur unfortunately had to go home when he had to reach a ferry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429161745	Thank you. Perhaps we can then wonder a little about fares, which have also been discussed today. But in here we continue with the series of speeches. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl. And the rapporteur does not have to run. Don't worry about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429161816	I understand the background to this motion for a resolution, because precisely these children's cases have been one of my greatest frustrations since I became a social rapporteur. In fact, I think most of the social rapporteurs feel that way. At any rate, I have been able to see that I have shared the frustration with all the rapporteurs. Despite our rather different views in general, when it comes to children at risk, our questions have been the same. How can it happen over and over again that the municipalities fail? What makes there such a big difference in how municipalities handle notifications? How are they handled? What are the challenges in the municipalities? Why do the case workers have so many cases? What can we do? How can we help these vulnerable children best, because that is what we are all concerned with: helping the children? It is also, of course, Enhedslisten and therefore proposes a ceiling on how many cases a case officer in the field of vulnerable children may deal with at a time maximum. I also believe that the number of cases is important for quality. No doubt. That is why I personally was very enthusiastic when we set aside no less than 96 million in the pool of rates. kr. to spread the Herning model, which, as one of the things deals with fewer cases per year. Caseworker. It's really a shame that Enhedslisten wasn't in that deal, because there we went through this and could see that it's not just about number of cases, but it obviously matters. We now come from Enhedslisten with a motion for a resolution to force the municipalities to where, through good examples and real cases, we in the other parties are in the process of guiding the municipalities on a voluntary basis. This may well show the difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten. We do not believe that a centrally established ceiling on the number of cases is the right way to go. We would much rather hear about the Herning model, visit them, know how they work, know how their work process is, in order to inspire other municipalities to go the same way. It is a way of involving employees, getting employees right down on the floor to participate in the process that is a completely new way of working. Of course, the goal must be clear. There must be fewer cases of child failure and cases must be handled properly as soon as they come in. I myself worked in an organization where you had to change the whole way of working. I could see how much all the staff in the department moved because we were involved because we had the opportunity to have participation. We were listened to, we were confident that we could help achieve the goal ourselves. Our input was important. I think this is really important for achieving results. I think it is important that we not only get some guidelines from the top and have to do it in a special way, but that the goal is clear to you and that you then have participation in the way you have to achieve the goal. This is also the approach that the Liberal Alliance wants to take to the municipalities and to the public employees in general. We'd like in here from the Folketing to dictate the target. It has to be clear. We want better and earlier action in relation to vulnerable children, and we need to sanction severely when municipalities break the law. But we would also like to let skilled employees and managers have freedom of method. Would like to give local policy room to choose the path to the goal. It is my clear conviction that it works best. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the specific motion for a resolution, but we would very much like, together with the Enhedslisten, to continue to work towards fewer children's cases in the municipalities. We think that the Herning model is a very, very good example of how more municipalities should work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429162240	Thank you. I should just like to make sure that there are no brief comments. There isn't. We'll continue in the series of speeches. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429162251	Whether this proposal is adopted or not, it has great justification because it raises a debate that is extremely important. It is about the fact that in many parts of the country there are far too high figures per case. Caseworker. As mentioned, within the last 11⁄2 years, 16 municipalities have been ordered by the Ankestyrelsen, as the case workers in the municipalities' children and young people were overburdened. In some places they sat with up to 90 cases at a time. The high number of cases means that some cases are pending treatment for more than a year, and some children are therefore not receiving the right help in time. Enhedslisten wants to find a solution to this by setting a ceiling of 25 cases per year. Caseworker in cases of vulnerable children and young people. As I said, we recognise the intention, but we do not support the concrete proposal. It is not because this problem is not crying out for a solution, but because we believe there are even better solutions. In our position on this proposal, there are two factors in particular that are of great importance to the alternative. One is the reaction of the Danish Social Advisor Association to the proposal, and the other is the fundamental belief of the Alternative in the ability of municipal selfgovernment to solve the challenges facing the municipalities. For the social workers, the Danish Social Advisor Association already has indicative case figures broken down by main case types within the area, which the municipalities should strive to comply with. These range from 15 to 35 cases per year. Caseworker. Directly polled, the social workers do not find that a ceiling on cases, i.e. what Enhedslisten proposes, is the right way to manage. They do not believe that centralised governance is the answer. They stress that each municipality is different and that it is out at each workplace that you should have the dialogue on how the work is organised. In a management discussion, the social workers appeal to the municipalities to be able to invest in their efforts in the field of children, so the case number falls according to the Swedish model and the Herning model, which we have gradually heard a little about today. They strongly recommend reducing the level of bureaucracy, and finally they recommend searching opportunities for a shift in control, so we start steering on the outcome rather than the process. This brings us right into the main vision of the Alternative for municipal self-government. We have a vision of having more society and less state. This does not mean that we want to cut back on the public sector, but that we want to think municipal autonomy wiser. We are working to free local self-government. We want to put the citizen and, in this case, the child in the spotlight, and this requires us to put more responsibility on the front workers who meet the citizens in their daily lives and who have their hands on the pulse. We want to manage administration, bureaucracy, silos thinking and inflexible structures and create a room for action for public front workers. That is why we have also taken part and were happy to allocate nearly 100 million. kr. to promote the so-called Herning model, by which it seeks to reduce the number of cases involving children at risk per year. Caseworker, e.g. through cooperation between psychologists, healthcare professionals and case practitioners. Why is it that today we are talking so much about the Herning model? I find it difficult to speak on behalf of the other parties, but I can say that in the alternative, we do so because this is the result of local inventiveness. I think it is a success for the working local self-government that such a good solution is spreading. If we are to take it a little longer, I would say that if we can create well-being and quality of life for vulnerable children and young people, we will save money on other parameters later. It can be health, it can be transfer income. This means that if, by creating well-being and better living conditions, you can save money and identify the savings and instead of putting them into some black hole, you can return them and reinvest them where you have seen you can create well-being and quality of life, which in turn can create savings, then I think we have a very, very interesting and new investment circle. We call it social entrepreneurship in the alternative. So we would like to see the many municipalities which, through the Herning model and other initiatives, voluntarily work to reduce the number of cases for vulnerable children and young people, supported it. We do not think it will benefit the work that the same municipalities are experiencing a double process with which we support municipal self-government with one hand and legislate on the matter ceiling with the other. But thank you to Enhedslisten for being incompetent in raising this debate and trying to solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429162746	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one with brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, on behalf of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429162803	Thank you. Children's cases are, by their very nature, unhappy because children are the most vulnerable and vulnerable people who are totally dependent on adults around them. This also applies to the adults they have in their institutions, in other words in schools and in leisure facilities, and there are, of course, social workers in the municipalities. They are adults who, in their own way, are dedicated to the work of vulnerable children and young people and of ordinary children and young people, if I may say so, who thrive well. The adults have a special sense of catching the signals coming from the children who are in trouble. I think that in many ways this is a very good resolution tabled by Enhedslisten. For once, I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for that. It contains some very important information, namely the description of how things have gone in Herning. Allow me to read out a few words from the remarks to the motion for a resolution in order to promote the good cause of preventing and tackling a whole range of problems very early on, much better than waiting for the children to become teenagers. It has appeared in Herning, and it has been evaluated by the National Institute of Municipalities and Regions Research and Analysis: • Four extra case workers had in only one year earned the extra salary costs home. Then there is also a very important comment here: the evaluation stated that the key element for successful implementation was a low case number, because this gives the case workers time for the necessary professionalism and depth. No one can agree more that this is a success story. It is a good idea that Herning was inspired by a Swedish municipality called Borås. It also states very fairly that the Folketing has allocated funds for further development in other municipalities that can receive financial support if they want to implement the same type of programme or way of working. So it's the one success story that's described here. The second success story is that the Danish Social Advisor Association has found in a study of the case number in the municipal administrations that more than half of the municipalities exceeded the Danish Social Advisor Association's recommendations on the number of cases. One could also put it in another way: almost half of the municipalities followed the recommendations of the Danish Social Advisor Association. It is without us having legislated. So we could each one of us, where we are now coming around, ask how the number of cases goes with the individual case worker, and advertise the good experiences that can come both by listening to the Danish Social Advisor Association, but also by organising work with the vulnerable children and young people in new ways. It can be an inspiration. In the Radical Left, we are not particularly interested in legislating on how many individual cases the individual social worker should have. There are quite different conditions, and that is why we think it is better to advertise and disclose the results you get elsewhere by doing things in a way that is more reasonable than heaping 90 cases up to the individual case officer. It is, of course, a management problem in a municipality where you behave in this way, and therefore you should also keep an eye on those who are employed to keep an eye on matters. I am also thinking here of the Ankestyrelsen, who has a case in which they keep an eye on the municipalities that are not doing their job well enough and that have complaints from citizens that they should look at such things and disseminate knowledge and experience from other municipalities. So I cannot please the Enhedslisten with anything but praise for their proposals, because I do not want to be involved in legislation on the number of cases per year. social worker, but would like to spread knowledge on how to get better processing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429163311	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll continue in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429163319	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for in particular raising a debate on the working conditions of social workers, which is of crucial importance. There are a lot of family departments where you're drowning in cases. This has consequences both for the children, young people and families they work with, but also for the social workers who have applied for these jobs because they have a desire to help the children they are dealing with. In the SF, we agree that it is important that the case workers have time for the cases. It is quite clear that if you are sitting with a pile of cases so large that you cannot talk to the children and families, then the procedure will be followed. But we disagree with this way of detailing the municipalities by law, because the reality is that it is more nuanced and complex than a matter of number of cases for the individual case officer. Municipalities organise their work differently. Some case officers in the same municipality may have very different numbers of cases, depending on the type of tasks and cases they are dealing with. That, for example, gives rise to a number of problems. no sense working with a figure precisely because the municipalities have such different systems; some work within the concept created by Herning Municipality, namely the Sweden model, which has also been mentioned several times today, or something similar, where the case workers are much more out there in the family and with the partners to work with action- and solution-oriented. There has to be something less than 25 cases, otherwise it doesn't add up. But you work more traditionally, or whatever you can say, the Social Advisor Association recommends 25-35 cases in the area of children's families and 35-45 cases in the area of child abuse. In fact, I think it is essential to dwell a little on why the Social Advisor Association recommends it in the way they do. They do so because, among other things, there is a difference in whether you are a new employee, a newly trained person, a part-time employee, an in-service training course, a choice of confidence, a specific task which cannot be measured by case. It can, for example, be done. be development tasks, consultancy functions, administrative tasks, multidisciplinary cooperation, etc. So that's why it's more complex than that. Among other things: They write that the recommended indicative number of cases is approx. 25-35 per social worker for children with social problems. However, if a social worker is primarily in the presence of visitation, notification, etc., it must be 30-35 cases. If they're dealing with investigation cases, it's gonna have to be 15 or 20 cases. If they are dealing with measures, it must be 30-35 cases, etc. etc. In fact, they are very aware that it is actually very complex. It must be possible to propose some other and better solutions to the issue of case pressure, which I recognise exists. When I myself was a municipal politician, instead of setting an economic framework which gave the average number of cases per year. social worker, recommended by the Social Advisers' Association, but with respect for the fact that it could differ between the individual case practitioners depending on the gravity of the case, how many children there were in the specific family, the individual employee's competences, how acute the cases were, etc. It is the individual manager, in cooperation with the employees, who is best at assessing it. In addition, looking at the administrative burden of the case workers, it would also give more time for the investigation work and the interviews with children and families: an IT system, the DUBU, which many employees complain about, because it creates more chaos than efficiency, a wide range of reporting and registration requirements, which are not always relevant, which are seen as meaningless and whose meaning does not match the time spent on it. Legal requirements tend to set the lowest common denominator, and rules run the risk of becoming false security. In SF's opinion, instead of a paradigm shift from this behavior control and process regulation to putting the child, the young person, the family at the centre and assessing the effort according to whether it actually makes a difference. So instead of having a specific number of cases, we have to delegate responsibility for ensuring proper professionalism and quality in the processing of cases to the municipalities and giving more room for professionalism. So we must not push them so much economically through, for example. the re-priority contribution that they have to save on administrative staff, as the case workers are. So the SF cannot support the proposal, but we would very much like to continue focusing on this area, because it is absolutely crucial that the resources available in this area also have something to do with the quality of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429163848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As the Conservative rapporteur has been covered by the Left rapporteur, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429163909	Thank you. As several have mentioned, we propose in the Enhedslisten to amend the law so that a case worker in a child and youth section can have a maximum of 25 cases at a time. As many people have pointed out from the platform, the good results in Herning and Sweden are certainly not just about a particular case number, i.e. multidisciplinaryity, more frequent follow-up and this kind of work is also very, very important. A prerequisite for starting to work more thoroughly, following up more, having more focus on matters and having time to work interdisciplinaryly is precisely time. As has also been mentioned, the Danish Labour Inspectorate ordered 16 municipalities last year, because the case workers in their children and young people had too many cases per year. Caseworker. And in a survey among their shop stewards the Danish Social Advisor Association has received the answer that 78%. of the shop stewards considered that the case workers in the children's and young people's departments were overburdened. When there are case officers who have to sit with up to 90 cases and there are some citizens who have to wait a year for their case to be looked at, then the risk that we are failing some very vulnerable and vulnerable young people is increasing. There's something in this that's about the working environment. I mean, we have some talented social workers and case workers in Denmark, I mean. They are stressed and overburdened, and of course this has consequences; there is something about work satisfaction that is something about the ability to deliver a proper job. And I think that the social workers know better than anyone what happens to the families who have to wait and whose problems may worsen as the case piles grow. But there is also something about stress and poor working conditions for the case workers, which makes it impossible for them to deliver a high quality of what they then get done. However, the group which is of course hit hardest is the children and the young people and the families, and the help they receive is hit by sloppy or imperfection and errors due to busyness. I do not think that I need to list the many different matters that we have looked at and worked on and have become very, very dismayed about in the eyes of the people sitting in this Chamber who are social rapporteurs for different parties. I know that you are all aware of this, as painfully aware, but these are some of the things that can happen when case managers do not have time to respond properly to matters, do not have time to delve properly into matters and therefore sometimes may have to jump over where the burden is lowest, or do not discover anything that one should see could indicate major problems. Of course, it doesn't take a PhD in rocket science to figure out that case managers who don't have time to do their job properly also deliver bad results. It is therefore very good that we can point to a Danish municipality, it is Herning who has actually delivered some really, really good results. An evaluation of KORA has been carried out last year, which shows that fewer children are placed in an institution and that fewer are placed outside the home. In one year, four extra case officers have earned the extra wage costs. That's crazy. The number of complaints has been halved, the link with the local environment has increased, the multidisciplinary cooperation has been strengthened and the quality of the case work has been maintained and in some respects it has also improved. After all, the social workers have been saying for years that the number of cases has a huge, huge impact on the quality of the proceedings, and now it has been proved. The Liberal Alliance rapporteur said that it was a pity that I was not present in the pool negotiations when the Herning experience was reviewed, but I can assure you that they can be found anywhere other than in the Minister's negotiating room. Moreover, it should not get Enhedslisten to accept funding that both harms social work and is financed by taking away from some of the most vulnerable in our society. However, I would just like to say once again that it is quite true that this is not just about the number of cases, but a lower number of cases is therefore a huge prerequisite for freeing up time. And that is why we believe it is absolutely necessary to have a lower case number. In the Enhedslisten we can both hear and count, which is why we are well aware that this proposal will not be adopted, but, on the other hand, there is an opening and an understanding that this is a place where we need to find solutions. I have a strange feeling that before we make a great deal of progress, we also need to have some financial rapporteurs to understand that we can actually save a great deal of money in a society by investing some money in a solid, decent and quality-oriented public sector and that the public sector is not dangerous, but a huge prerequisite for our having a good foundation in our society. If we invest money in securing our vulnerable children and young people much earlier, it comes back to us tenfold. I wonder if at some point we should also have a discussion on calculating machines in the Ministry of Finance, and then it could be that with a more flexible ceiling and some sympathetic financial rapporteurs we could get such a proposal through here another time. At least we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429164532	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429164551	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429164614	Thank you for that, President. Motion for a resolution B 106 proposes that the government should abolish the requirement for parental payments in relation to the placement of children and young people. Firstly, the abolition of parental payments is justified by the fact that placement is a social task for which parents of children and young people in care should not therefore pay. In addition, it is pointed out to exempt parents from payment, as payment can be an obstacle to good cooperation between families and the municipality. Finally, it argues in favour of abolishing parental payments that the payment rules are complex and resource-intensive for the municipalities to administer, and that there are large municipal differences in whether or not payments are collected from the parents at all. The government agrees that there is a need to look at the rules, because these are both very complex rules and rules which are administered very differently in the municipalities; we need to do something about that. In fact, this is also the reason why more preparatory work is under way in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, which is looking precisely at the need for change in this area. I would like to take this opportunity to just describe the rules underlying this debate, and I must start by saying that I experience it as there have been some misunderstandings in the media about what these rules say. The rules in force are based on the principle that all parents not only have a duty to care for their children but also have a financial obligation, even if their children are placed outside the home. Therefore, the starting point of the current rules is that all parents with an income above a certain amount are obliged to contribute financially to the care of their children. And I think that basically is a right starting point. There are also rules on how high the maximum self-payment must be, which is sensible. Then there are a number of exceptions in which the municipalities can choose to exempt all or part of their own payments. This applies, for example, if the stay has a distinct treatment objective, as it is called, or if an exemption has a particular impact on parents' involvement in the provision of support to the child. And these are the exemptions which I find difficult in practice and which are at least administered in a very different way in the municipalities. This has also meant that there has been confusion as to whether parents should pay for their children's possible treatment at a location, for example. In relation to a child with disabilities. In this context, let me make one thing clear straight away: there is no question in the rules that parents should pay for the treatment that a child needs during his placement. The rules on parental payments are exclusively about the basic financial obligation of all parents to contribute to the support of their children, and I think it is quite reasonable that parents should still contribute financially to the upbringing of their child, even if the child is placed outside the home, because they are still parents of the child and maintain custody, and they have both caring and financial responsibility, even if the child cannot live at home for a shorter or longer period. That is also what I want to start from when the rules may need to be changed. At the same time, it is also important to me that the rules are properly and fairly administered and that there should be a clear limit on how much can be collected. This means that we must ensure a much more uniform application of the rules. I do not think there should be such great differences across the municipalities, as we can see today. And as the comments on the motion for a resolution also refer to, a survey has been made of local authorities' practice in relation to the regulatory framework. However, for both municipalities and citizens, it is important that the economic consequences of possible changes are fully clear before we decide, and that is the work that is now under way. When that work is done, and I expect it to be here before the end of the year, then I will consider when you have the overview of what changes may be needed. Yes, it is a job that I would have liked to see completed a little more quickly, but I get the message that it is a thorough preparatory work that is now under way, and that is why we need to have a discussion about whether it can be done more quickly or whether it is necessary. Because nobody wants any hasty solutions. But in conclusion, yes, I agree that we need to look at this and we need to do it properly. What we are working on is a well-thought-out, thorough solution. The starting point for possible changes will then be that the rules must be clear and easy to administer for the municipalities, but also that we maintain the fundamental principle that parents have both a duty of care and a financial obligation for their children. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165149	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, DF. I think we need to talk a little loud, because there's a little competition from someone who plays high outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165155	Thank you very much. I'll try to speak out loud. The minister himself refers to the inappropriateness of the fact that there is a difference between the municipality and the municipality, but is it not correctly understood that the municipalities have free choice, as to whether they will charge or not charge? And if that is correctly understood, does the Minister consider that part to be appropriate, because it also contributes to this so-called postcode lottery?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165231	The question is whether it can be called free choice, in relation to whether the municipalities will charge or not. It is certainly a choice made by the municipalities. It's a choice that really puzzles me. However, it is not the case that it is prohibited by law not to charge the payment, so one might well conclude that they have taken the liberty of saying: here we do not charge the payment. I am surprised because I have the basic view that parents have both a duty of care and, of course, also a financial obligation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165306	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165310	Thank you. That's what we're wondering, too. Should I understand what the Minister is saying so that the Minister would like to look at it so that we get it one-way and there won't be these big differences?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165323	Yes, I can confirm that. Because I do not think it is appropriate to decide, so to speak, whether you think you have a payment obligation as parents in cases where your child is placed. That is actually the uniformity that I have an ambition to find, and that is why the preparatory work has been set in motion in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165351	Then there is a brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165354	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that in the SF we do not question the parents' obligation of care or dependency. But I would like to hear from the Minister whether he also recognises that the cost of parenting is still high. I mean, every child is being placed for the purpose of return at some point. This means that you have to maintain a home with a room for the child when it comes home on weekends, that you have to create a good framework for association and activities when you have your child on weekends, and for many it will also be a matter of having clothes and shoes in different places, so you don't have to drag it back and forth there are a large number of expenses • you also often take holidays with your children, even if they are placed, so you still have a care and subsistence obligation; you are also drawn into some benefits when your child is placed. So does the Minister not recognise that there are still costs associated with the parent's role?
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165511	Well, I fully acknowledge that when you put children in the world and are parents, there is both a duty of care and a financial obligation, and in cases where, for one reason or another, you are in a situation where your child is placed outside your home for a shorter or longer period of time, it is still quite reasonable in my optics that there is also a degree of parental pay for that stay. I actually see it as two sides of the same coin, because the cost of placing the child in that place is a contribution. I do not think it is possible to talk about double housekeeping in this sense, because that is not really what the parental payments represent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165602	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165605	But it is quite true that the municipality takes over the costs associated with the child's daily life at the place of placement, but of course not the costs associated with the parents being able to maintain the child's home together or separately, if they do not live together, during the placement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165627	No, but what did the rapporteur imagine? In other words, I am almost completely worried about what else is really out of sight in this resolution. I think it is perfectly logical and reasonable that parents should also contribute to the economy there, because the child does not eat meals and is not at the same time in one's own home, and that is why they have a self-payment in the location in question. We are not talking, so to speak, about double housekeeping, which in any way matches what the actual price is. That is also why I made a great deal of effort to say that we are not paying for the treatment that exists in the case of a child with a need for treatment. So it is not the case that you pay for the treatment, you do that over the tax ticket, but you don't do it with a specific bill. After all, it is not user-funded in this context that 100 per cent is financed. of what the cost is. But you have a share of parental pay, just as parents who have children in crèches have, where you pay for a daycare center, i.e. a share of it, even if you have a home at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165747	Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165751	After all, we know the principle from another area, namely from the camp school area, where a municipality or a school is allowed to charge money from parents for food at camp school. But you also have the opportunity not to charge it to all pupils without exhibiting those who are not charged because they have less financial capacity than the other children have. So it's not an unknown phenomenon, but in the camp school area it's a canoe, it's not a shell. What has struck me in this, and that is the way my question is going, is that now that a piece of legislation has been put in motion and the municipalities consider that they are actually getting less money than it costs to administer the scheme, there is surely some perception among the municipalities that a regulatory simplification here would be beneficial to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165854	With regard to the first part of the question of the comparison with the parental pay for a camping school and the possibility of exempting it, I think it is important also to make it clear that, as the rule is today, there is financial freedom if parents' income is very low. I think this is quite reasonable, as is the case in day-care facilities. That is the simplification and uniformity that I have an ambition to create. I am actually completely, and that is probably more valuable, of the opinion that it would be completely wrong to say that, because the child is placed, there is no parental payment for the placement. I think that is fundamentally wrong from the point of view that parents have both the obligation to provide care and the financial obligation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429165949	The questioner for his second brief remark? That is not wanted, so thank you to the Minister. We shall continue with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170004	Thank you. All children deserve a good start to life, but unfortunately it is the case that some children are worse off than others. They grow up in families and parents where there are so many problems that it may be necessary to place them outside the normal parental framework. In the social democracy we believe that as a society we have a special responsibility to care for those children. We must create as secure a framework as possible for them where they have someone who cares about them. All children and young people need a close and secure relationship with caring adults. This applies in particular to children and young people who have been placed. But that does not mean that the parents of those children should be deprived of their responsibilities as parents. It is basically a sensible principle that parents have a duty to take care of their children both financially and socially, whether the children live at home or are placed outside the home. It is important to bear in mind that the payment is intended to cover a number of expenses that parents would otherwise have to bear if the child was provided for in the home. It is therefore not a user charge for any treatment received by the child at his place of placement. Parents' income is taken into account in the context of parental payments, and parents can be exempted from payment in whole or in part if, for example, they are entitled to a pension. have an impact on parental cooperation or on other special circumstances. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. Having said that, however, there is good reason to be critical of the way in which this area is managed today. A study by the Ankestyrelsen shows that there are major differences in how municipalities interpret and apply the rules in this area. Some municipalities do not charge parental fees at all, while other municipalities have fixed procedures. On average, this is only 14 per cent. of the cases relating to the lodging of parental payments. The municipalities generally state in the survey that they have problems interpreting the rules because they are too complicated, and many municipalities believe that the parental payment is not at all worthwhile, as the cost of administration exceeds the parental payment. There is therefore good reason to look at the rules. There's gotta be a better way to do it. It should not be the case that parental payments depend on which municipality you live in. The rules must apply and be the same for all. And we need rules that are understandable and that the municipalities can apply, without it costing a lot of administrative resources. That is why we shall then ask the Minister what solutions the Minister sees in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170303	We continue in the series of speeches, there were no brief comments, so the next speaker is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170316	Thank you, President. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that children are primarily the parents' responsibility and therefore not the responsibility of the state, as the Socialist People's Party believes it is. We therefore also fundamentally disagree with the Socialist People's Party that Article 159 of the Social Services Act should be abolished. On this basis, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. It is our view that if parents have the opportunity to contribute to their child's food by placing them in a foster home or in a place of residence, they must, of course, as a natural part of having children do so. Furthermore, it is our view that the state already assumes a very great responsibility when a measure is put into effect and when a child is placed outside the home. Having said that, it is of course incredibly important that the municipalities also do what they can to put a child back home. The costs, such as: Moreover, by having a foster child, clothing and other necessities, a foster family does not measure up to the means that the foster family gets to have the child, and perhaps it was also an area that could be looked at on a given occasion. But after all that has been said, SF has a point in raising this. As the report from the Ankestyrelsen shows, there is an incredibly large difference between how the municipalities handle this. Some municipalities charge money, others don't. Some municipalities do not know how to calculate the amount; others do not really know if they get the same amount as they have charged. And that's just not gonna work. Whether to give more guidance to municipalities or whether to change legislation or what the solution to this is, we will not be inventing here from the platform, but we would certainly like to help together to find a better solution to this problem. We also have another appeal against it, namely the improper placements, in other words where a child is placed, but where there is no real basis for placing the child. We would like to urge that the moment a complaint is lodged with the Ankestyrelsen be suspended until a decision has been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170540	There is one more brief remark. Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170543	It is, of course, because I was slightly offended by the introduction, where it was said that the SF should think that the children are the responsibility of the state. I have not said that at any time, and I would like the rapporteur to say where it is in the resolution that the SF should think that it is the children of the state. It is the children of parents, it is the one hundred percent, and I have explained that in my previous questions to the Minister. We still believe that it is the parents who have a caring job and, in fact, also a parent's job. So I would just like to clarify where in our resolution it is that the rapporteur sees that we should think that these are the children of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170631	Thank you. If I have misinterpreted it, I would like to deplore it very much from this point of view. That is what I interpreted out of what I read, but I am really glad that the SF does not have the attitude that would give cause for concern, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170649	The questioner for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170651	Well, then I can just say that I'm glad that misunderstanding was cleared up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170659	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170708	Both the content and the background of the proposal have already been touched upon by both the Minister and the previous rapporteurs, so I will refrain from repeating and instead stress the obvious need to look at the rules in force. That is also why it is so gratifying that the Minister has taken due care and has already begun to clarify whether there is a need for change in this area. The Left has great faith in the ministry's investigation work, so we look forward to the future work and the final results of this, but I also note that any changes will focus on making the rules clearer for citizens and easier to manage for the municipalities. Then I would like to stress that parents not only have a duty to care for their children, but also a financial obligation, even if their child is placed outside the home. All parents with an income above a certain amount have a financial obligation to contribute to their children's support. With this in mind, the Left looks forward to the final results of the Ministry's investigation work, and we therefore see no reason to change the existing rules as long as this work is under way. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I should also like to say on behalf of the Conservatives that they cannot either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170904	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429170919	Today, as parents, you may have to pay more than 4,000 kroner. to have your child placed outside the home. Whether the child is in a foster family, in a place of residence or in a 24-hour institution, and whether it is voluntary or not, the municipalities may charge the parents several thousand kroner a month for payment by reference to the Service Act. This proposal then proposes the deletion of that paragraph, and of course we can only agree with that. If we are to give some of our own reasons for supporting the SF's proposals, it is, among other things, a clause that ranges widely from municipality to municipality in application, i.e. a completely unacceptable and uneven practice for the citizens of the individual municipalities. The Ankestyrelsen has examined it, which ranges from 0 to 96 per cent. In the municipalities which actually apply the paragraph, the municipality ends up in a double role for us as both responsible for a very emotional and socially difficult process and responsible for the recovery of the payment thereof. It goes for us to oppose a fundamental premise of good contact and cooperation, which is essential for a successful placement process for the child, and the current situation with the dual role of municipalities is also ethical and socially indefensible. The funding, in principle, of children and young people's placement outside the home, of course, is not part of the individual parent's task, but part of the responsibility that we as a community take on us when society needs to enter and protect the life and well-being of the child. It is an entirely natural part of the social security network, which should be in a welfare society, and part of the universal welfare rights that we all pay to and are secured over the tax, where we give what we can and receive back security high as low. According to the Ankestyrelsen, 20-30 million are recovered annually. kr. in the case of parental payments, but the municipalities themselves believe that the amount does not exceed what they spend on administration and recovery, so we do not see the financial justification for this either. Therefore, Enhedslisten will only thank SF and without other buts support the proposal • a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171219	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171226	Thank you. SF is tabling a motion for a resolution which intends to repeal an existing law, and I think that is very positive, because if we want bureaucracy to come to an end and ensure more freedom, we also have to sometimes look at which laws we have to remove, instead of always looking at what laws we can come up with, so praise for that part. But it is also crucial which laws you want to repeal. This is a law which stresses that parents with an income above a certain amount have a financial obligation to their children, whether they live in the home or outside the home. And that is a principle that we in the Liberal Alliance support and wish to uphold in the same way as the Left do. We believe that it is quite reasonable that parents should, as a starting point, have both a duty to care and a financial obligation, and that it is only in cases where parents cannot take up the task that the community should take up time. In our view, this is how a welfare society should be organised, in other words, as a society in which those who can take care of themselves, also economically, do so, and that society should step in if you cannot economically take care of yourself. Having said that, SF has a point in that it is completely unsustainable that the rules are so complicated that the municipalities use unbridled resources to manage the rules, and we must of course change that. It's not okay that it's almost random whether or not parents charge parents. It creates uncertainty for citizens and it must be insanely frustrating to work in such an environment. That is why, of course, I am delighted to hear that the government is looking at changing the rules so that they become clearer and more comprehensible to both citizens and municipalities. This will probably also ensure a more uniform practice in the municipalities. I would therefore like to look forward to further work on this proposal in committee. We cannot support what is happening here, but we would like to help put pressure on the government to simplify the rules in this area. So this is the message from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171440	Thank you. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171448	Thank you, President. The alternative is that it is a good idea to remove parental payments for parents, for example. have their children removed, and there are several arguments for that. For example: We have talked to case-handling workers who find that communication between citizens and case-handling workers suffers a great deal of damage once, for example. Forcibly removes the children of parents and in the next breath requires them to take the wallet out of their pocket and pay parents' fees in connection with the placement. In addition, parents are also drawn into child support and housing insurance when a child is forcibly removed, and since they still have to pay expenses to ensure that the child can return home, which is the intention to a large extent, I think it is fair that they should not have a parental payment. One of the strongest arguments for supporting this proposal, however, is that the comments on the proposal state that the cost of administering the rules actually exceeds 20-30 million. kr. that comes into parental pay. This means, if the information is correct, that the municipalities are putting money into collecting money from parents who have a child placed. So, there is at least the logic of the alternative, so we are delighted to support the lifting of this parental payment requirement, and we look forward to getting rid of all the administration we get rid of in this regard, and we think this is well seen by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171614	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171622	Thank you. This proposal is based on principles which may be quite relevant and which we can then discuss how we translate, if I may say so. Because I agree with the Minister that parents have both caring responsibilities and financial responsibility for their children. Therefore, there may also be something psychological about maintaining that responsibility, even in a situation as delicate as a place outside the home, because there are problems. However, as I mentioned in my question to the Minister earlier, we do not maintain that principle in any context. Nor do we pay for food in hospitals when we are there, but it may of course be because it is a treatment situation. However, we do not necessarily require money from parents for food in camp schools, even though this could be as relevant as what this resolution is about. It is also problematic that there is such an uneven practice in the municipalities. It sounds as if in some municipalities the case workers are allowed to decide whether or not the parents should pay. That is not a fair way of administering legislation either. When we talk about simplification of rules, which I think everyone is in favour of, because we have built up a great many complex systems, we also have to assess whether the simplification of rules should be implemented, in terms of having an entirely fixed tariff or some quite other easy ways of managing it here, or they say that in principle it will not apply in this context. We must wait until we see the government's proposals for simplifications. What I really think is the worst problem here is the very diverse practice which must be experienced as hammer-cleaned by the parents who discover the difference in practice ^ if they do. And if they don't, I feel guilty that it's going on that way. So, in any case, it is necessary for the government to get to grips with this matter and do so in a way that we can also be satisfied with in the Folketing. In those words I must say that I cannot immediately support the proposal as it stands here, but I think it is beneficial that the problem is raised in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171859	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429171909	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the debate. It shows that there are some ideological differences, I think you can hear. That is why, of course, I would like to thank those who fully support the proposal, but actually also for the partial statements of support that have been made. There is at least a broad consensus that there is a need to simplify the area and make it easier to manage. At least it sounded like there was a broad consensus on it and some other sub-items that I could listen to. After all, the rules on parental leave are old rules and, as I said, they are administered very differently. We can also see this from the Ankestyrelsen's practice study. When we in the SF want to abolish this provision, it is because this arbitrary application of the rules in the municipalities, where parents in one municipality can be asked to pay and the parents in another not, is completely unreasonable and quite difficult to explain the logic of. The proposal is also an attempt to debureaucratise and therefore escapes well with the government's economic agreement with the municipalities, where it has been proposed to simplify the rules. The rules on parental payments are difficult to understand for both employees and citizens, both in terms of calculation and exemption rules. Many resources are spent on processing an amount which may be of great importance to parents, while for the municipalities it is a relatively small amount in relation to the total cost of placement. The resources you spend on this casework could be used in better ways and for greater benefit to the child and the young person. And we have just dealt with another motion for a resolution which was about creating time for proper procedure. The worst consequence is that the cooperation and communication with parents in these very sensitive cases is made more difficult when the same authority that places the payment with or without consent is also the one that collects the payment. That is why it happens, among other things, that you do not inform about the parental payment until a while after the placement, which I have listened to that parents can experience as a double penalty. It is important for me to say that parents with children in care are dependent, but they are already paid when their child is placed, and they still have away the costs of, for example. housing, clothing, toys, activities, etc., when having association with the child. And they must also have the opportunity for the child to be returned home. If they are pressured too much economically, it will also have an impact on the housing they can maintain. Then I would just like to comment on some of the things that have been in the debate. I think it is very important that the child's attachment and attachment to his family are supported during the placement. It's about the child's continuity. Whether the child is placed or not, his or her family is an essential part of his or her service. However, many parents do not find that, in connection with this placement, as I said, this general payment obligation is being talked about. Therefore, they experience it as a form of demonstration of power, and in the case of placement without consent it is particularly unfair. Perhaps it is also an indication that the municipalities actually find it difficult to deal with this provision in a decent way with the parents concerned because it is not fair. So when we see that the municipalities actually administer this law differently, it could also be that it is because they do not like it either, because they actually think it is an unreasonable requirement to make of the parents and because they experience the consequences it will have for the cooperation. If parents are exempted from payment because of the provision that it would prevent their support for placement because it is one of the options that the Minister also quite rightly said, so that you can be exempted from aid for placement, if it goes beyond your support for placement, then it may seem rather stigmatizing because it describes you as a parent who will not cooperate in the placement. So what I want to make clear is that for us in the SF this has nothing to do with depriving parents of their responsibilities, but it is a matter of creating the best possible cooperation between the municipality and the parents in a very, very difficult situation, that we actually like to • I'm glad that the Liberal Alliance is paying attention to it will remove a law and that we want a much simpler practice in this area. But I thank you for the debate and I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429172434	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160429172452	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 May 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
