ParlaMint-DK_20161124100006	The meeting is open. And that means there must be quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100025	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100043	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100126	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? If anyone wants to speak, it's from the platform. As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100205	Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100231	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100242	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100306	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (SF), joined by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100335	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100355	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on loans for the payment of property taxes. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100436	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100507	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100527	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of SF and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100544	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100604	Thank you. Today we are going to deal first with a change in traffic law, L 60. There are, in fact, two things in the bill. Firstly, there is the possibility that the Road Authority, and hence the Road Directorate, will be able to remove vehicles which are on state roads and which are not dangerous to traffic. Today it is only the police who can do this and it is then set in motion that the Road Directorate can make it forward-looking on state roads. To that I would say that we think it is very sensible. However, we would have liked to have examined before the legislative proposal is adopted what a problem it is on the municipal roads, in other words the roads that are not state roads, in order to find out whether there should also be an opportunity there for the road authority to actually remove cars placed there. Secondly, the proposal also provides for the possibility for the police to allow slow-moving motor vehicles to pass fixed connections, in other words all tunnels and bridges. Today it is the case that the police can only authorise driving on the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Bridge. We have experienced a situation when the old Lillebælt Bridge had to be repaired, where in fact there were especially farmers who came into trouble because they could not transport their stuff across Lillebælt. That is, among other things, the point. the possibility is given here. We think this is a good legislative proposal and would also like to support the draft law, but would like to have examined before we take a final decision whether it is also the case that it should be possible for the Road Directorate to remove cars located on non-state roads, namely municipal roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100758	It's hard to add anything new to this big government play. It is, of course, a small proposal, but it makes sense, because in this way the things that the police have to deal with are simplified. We have to say that in these times there are plenty of tasks for the police. Here, therefore, the Road Directorate is authorised to remove abandoned vehicles which may be on state roads, so that they can be driven to scrapping and treated in an environmentally sound manner according to the regulations of the law. In addition, it is possible to transport agricultural vehicles on bridges other than the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Bridge in situations where necessary. We had this example, which is also mentioned, with the Old Little Belt Bridge when it was being renovated. You then give the opportunity to drive on the New Lillebælt Bridge. So these are a few good and practical measures that we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100859	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124100907	The previous rapporteurs have explained very well the two elements of the draft law. After all, the first element will mean that we can make more efficient use of state resources when the Road Directorate is given the authority to be able to remove these vehicles, and not only will it help to make them more efficient, it will also help to ensure road safety for drivers, as it can prevent situations from leaving cars at places where they are a danger to road safety. The second element is that we avoid situations such as those we have seen in connection with the renovation work on the old Lillebælt Bridge, and it has been cost-effective for the individual trader who had to carry machines on blockcars from one side to the other. This could prevent unnecessary costs and make it more effective for the individual trader, by changing the traffic code and allowing driving on motorways over fixed connections. So overall, with this bill we ensure more mobility and accessibility on the Danish road network, and the Left would like to recommend that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101024	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101032	Yes, it makes sense immediately to give the Road Directorate the opportunity to remove vehicles which, for one reason or another, have been placed on state roads. I have to admit that when I read the remarks, I saw that the problem is somewhat bigger than I thought. I can see that 175 cars are actually registered per year. month as recommended. That's actually a problem, I think. Similarly, we do not know how big the problem is on the municipal road network and, like the Socialist rapporteur, I would like to know. Because it seems as reasonable to give the municipalities, which are road authorities on the municipal road network, the same opportunity as is now being given to the Road Directorate on the state road network. Whether it is to be the Road Directorate that also has to be able to operate on the municipal road network, or whatever, must be a detail we decide on along the way. But I think it is wise just to get it unveiled and then work on giving the municipalities the same opportunity, as I have the feeling that this is also a major problem on the municipal road network. On the question of slow-moving vehicles over fixed connections, etc. I would like to say that we are fully in favour of this, since we note what the comments in 2.1.3 say, that authorisation must continue to be sought and that authorisation can only be granted if driving cannot be carried out in any other way and road safety must continue to be observed. Of course you can say that is a matter of course, but I think it is important to emphasise it, including that proper information is actually provided when it is authorised here. It is clear from some of the consultations that it might be possible to emphasise a little more clearly that proper information needs to be provided. It may be implicit, but at least now it has been mentioned. For us, it is important that there should not be total freedom of play, so that in future we would see large construction machines and machinery machines crossing, for example. The Little Belt Bridge. It is important for us that we still have to grant permission and that the police can say: Ah, it does not go here!
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101314	Thank you. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101318	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have already said, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which can be put into the ring binder, which says on the back: 'Sound sense, get it decided'. I hope we can do that here too. It is of course common sense that in certain situations also slow-moving vehicles will also have access to cross our bridges, even when it is not just the Storebælt Bridge or the Øresund Bridge. The opposite can be a costly affair for companies, of course we have seen. But, of course, we would like to see the administration of these rules ensure that this does not happen in times of greatest distress. Similarly, it is also common sense for us to allow the road authority for state roads to remove vehicles which are not immediately dangerous to traffic. After all, it does not make much sense for a burned-down vehicle to be in an emergency route week after week until the police get involved if the day-to-day supervisory authority can do so. We are quite confident in transferring these cases to the Road Directorate and must therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101431	Thank you. Sir. Roger Matthiesen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101440	Thank you. The proposal has already been well and thoroughly explained. It is, of course, a small but very practical proposal, and the alternative also believes that it is for the best of both companies and citizens that they can seek, in cases where they cannot transport themselves in other ways, to cross bridges. So there is not so much to say about it, other than that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101510	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101515	As my colleague has said, the draft law contains two parts. One is that the Road Directorate is allowed to remove cars and other vehicles from the motorway network if they are damaged or otherwise, unlike today, when it is the police that do so. I think it is a very good idea for us to facilitate the work of the police, by allowing the Road Directorate to do so, and it can also enable those cars to be removed more quickly. There is, of course, a large majority in the Folketing who have adopted some very severe savings on education to finance more police officers, but such a small proposal here, which facilitates the work of the police by allowing another authority to take over a task, I think is a much better way to ensure that the police can spend their time catching criminals than on, for example. to have to remove vehicles. So I think that is a very good little suggestion. The second proposal is to leave, for example: tractors, which it will probably primarily be, could run over the fixed connections in Denmark. It is not something that I think will mean there will be a lot of tractors on, for example. The Storebælt Bridge, but since we have heard of cases with some farmers who have land on both sides of a belt and therefore cannot really get their tractors to come from one land to another, I think it is fair enough that such a farmer can be allowed to drive his tractor over, for example. The Great Belt Bridge. I don't think it's something that's gonna cause a lot of discomfort to anyone else. So these are two good small legislative amendments which we in the Radical Left will support and vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101703	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101713	The bill helps make progress and contributes to debureaucratisation. We like that, so SF votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101725	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur does not appear to be present, and then it is the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124101735	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. And it is true, as has been said, that the draft law has two objectives. Firstly, the proposal must ensure that operators have the possibility of obtaining a derogation to have slow-moving motor vehicles over a fixed link with the motorway. Secondly, the proposal must ensure that the Road Directorate has access to the removal of abandoned vehicles from the national road network. Certain vehicles may only be carried at such a low speed that they are not permitted to drive on a motorway. It can, for example, be done. be agricultural machinery and large construction machinery. Today the police only have the opportunity to allow such slow vehicles to travel on motorways over the Storebælt Bridge and the Øresund Bridge. And I think most people remember that in connection with road work on the old Lillebæltsbro earlier this year, the bridge was partially sealed off, and therefore, because of the rules in the traffic law today, it was not possible to give, for example. agricultural machinery derogation to use the new Lillebælt Bridge. So it was not a lack of will, but it was not possible. This led to quite unreasonable problems for business, which we must, of course, ensure does not happen again and which, moreover, we also dealt with when they arose this summer. However, in order for this not to happen again, we are proposing to extend the police's exemption so that it can be granted on all fixed links, that is. bridges and tunnels, including the new Lillebælt Bridge. In relation to the second point, namely the removal of vehicles on the national road network, only the police now have access to the removal of such abandoned vehicles. Typically, these are abandoned cars in the emergency lane on the motorways. And although these abandoned vehicles are not acutely dangerous, they still pose a road safety problem, for example. because rescue vehicles cannot get into the emergency tracks. For that matter, I also believe that many people have seen that driving on motorways also affects when cars suddenly enter the emergency lane. The Road Directorate oversees state roads and therefore there is already cooperation between the police and the Road Directorate to remove these vehicles. We are now formalising this cooperation with the bill so that the Road Directorate can also remove vehicles left in the emergency lane. I look forward to further discussion here in the Folketing, and I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection, and I would also like to come to the committee, as usual, because I think we always have a good debate where we will discuss constructively what is going on. Then something arises, I would urge the committee to invite me over, as usual, of course. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102017	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102020	It's just very short. In fact, I would ask the Minister to take a look at what the Socialist rapporteur said, and which I myself raised, about the situation on the municipal road network with regard to the removal of recommended vehicles and the possibility either of giving the Road Directorate the same opportunity as they are now given on the State Road network, or of giving the municipal authorities the opportunity to avoid it, but of course in cooperation with the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102049	But I would very much like to give a somewhat better answer to that than I can do now. Well, there is no problem with that for me, but where it may be a task we need to have looked at legally is that it is about the road authority. And the Road Directorate is not the road authority on the municipal roads. I would therefore hope and urge that the National Association of Municipalities, which is of course the umbrella organisation for the municipalities, could become aware of this and therefore say something about whether they have an interest in it. I have to say what it is quite right to say: if the municipalities are suddenly to have that opportunity, they must at least have defined whether they also have a duty to move the vehicles, because that will be the next. Anyway, I think it's okay. We can let it be legally assessed, but the easiest thing would be that it was the National Association of Municipalities that wanted it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102144	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102158	The debate is open. It's sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102218	It is a real transport policy day that we have today, with a number of good and positive proposals from the government in the field of transport. This proposal is simply about giving Sund & Bælt the opportunity to set up a company which can then set up payment facilities, i.e. they can be involved in this bidding process in relation to it. And we all know that Sund & Bælt is super capable of handling this whole situation. They have, so to speak, the black belt in dealing with this matter, so it makes sense to give them authority in relation to this, too, when we get, for example, to do so. must have payment facilities on the new bridge at Frederikssund. On the socialist side, we think that there are a lot of positive things in this, and we can also see from the consultation answers that it seems as if there is broad support. So we agree with this bill without any further comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102314	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102327	It is again a small proposal of a technical nature in which, as the previous rapporteur said, a company under Sund & Bælt will be set up to carry out operator tasks in relation to payment facilities. This could very easily be in connection with the new fjord connection up by Frederikssund, which will be a payment connection. It makes good sense to create a company that can handle it and also has the necessary experience and expertise, namely from the Storebælt and from the Øresund. So it's quite reasonable to make this small company adjustment, so you certainly have a company that has the opportunity to bid on this assignment, once we build the bridge up at Roskilde Fjord. The Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102424	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102432	The previous rapporteurs have explained very well the elements of this draft law. The Left supports the bill. After all, it allows Sund & Bælt to create a new company so that we ensure that there is a provider when payment facilities for new installations are offered. There are also a number of other elements in the bill. It is proposed, among other things, that A/S Femern Landanlæg's part of the rail network should be transferred in full or in part to Banedanmark, and Banedanmark already carries out a large number of tasks on the majority of the Danish rail network. They have the experience and the contract and will thus be able to carry out this part of the task. So with the bill today we will have the necessary adjustments made to the current legislation on Sund & Bælt Holding A/S. With those words, I would recommend from the Left that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102541	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124102558	One might think that the Enhedslisten would be against this bill, because the bill is very much about or is aimed at the Frederikssund link and the Fehmarn connection, and we have, as we know, previously been opposed to establishing the links, bridges or coasts in question for coastal links. However, we do think it is quite reasonable that the bill here makes it possible that Banedanmark will be able to manage the maintenance of the railway network in future, also for the part that will in future be owned by A/S Femern Landanlæg. In fact, we also think that it is sensible for the Minister of Transport to be empowered to set the rates for the maintenance efforts that will then take place. Then you are free from a fight between A/S Femern Landanlæg and Banedanmark, and then we can only call on the Minister of Transport, when he has to set the tariffs in the future, to set them so high that, of course, they cover the costs, but in any case they do not impose further reductions in revenue on Banedanmark, which the government has otherwise committed in the Finance Act for both 2017 and the future. In fact, we also believe that it is sensible to enable Sund and Bælt, through the creation of a company, to bid for the operation of payment facilities on future connections. The Frederikssund link has been mentioned. I could also mention the tribulation ring around Copenhagen or other major cities, where it will also be possible to use such a company. I note that the phrase is used: fixed links or other user-financed infrastructure. Then it is covered in, and then we can use such a company to also charge toll at a tribulation ring around, yes, currently well Copenhagen. I understand from the remarks that the reason why it is being put into effect is that there is such a lack of interest, perhaps a lack of interest from tenderers, but in any case we think it is quite pleasing and sensible that it is a public company that will be responsible for this. We think it is very sensible for the public authorities to have, if I may say so, hand-held and beheaded over our public infrastructure. I note, of course, that that company has to operate on a commercial and commercial basis, and I believe that there is also some EU law in this area. However, this leads me to a few of the consultation responses, which show that the Danish Media is drawing attention to the Publicity Act. It is very good that the Public Service Act is applicable, as it is written, that the Public Service Act is of course for publicly owned companies, but the exception provisions are also applicable, and this is where the Danish Media is concerned, because experience so far is that the exemption provisions are applied far beyond what is envisaged. They do so precisely by reference to the commercial basis on which some of the publicly owned companies operate and the commercial conditions. So I understand that the Danish Media is lifting an index finger here, and we will certainly do so, but also agree that this is a matter for the discussions on the Public Access Act. The Data Protection Agency has stumbled over the wording of the comments that there may be other recognised purposes to justify keeping registration of plates, which is a new tool, longer than 180 days, but I also note in the consultation note, that is to say the answer, that the Data Protection Agency appears to have been accepted in the comments to No. 25, and to the extent that the Data Protection Agency is satisfied, I am also satisfied, so we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103040	Thank you. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103046	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we have noted that the purpose of the bill is to allow Sund & Bælt Holding A/S to set up a company that can carry out the task of establishing the operation and maintenance of payment facilities and that, where appropriate, this company must be able to bid for the operator's task on the future fixed fjord connection at Frederikssund and similar tasks, as stated, in relation to transport and infrastructure. Since all competition requires that there are qualified bidders and preferably in a suitable large number, we welcome the fact that Sund & Bælt Holding A/S, who has extensive experience in the Danish context, is also given the opportunity to offer such tasks. Concerns about the Public Service Act, I believe that the Ministry has responded, so we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103136	Thank you. Sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103148	I agree with the previous rapporteurs that it is a sensible proposal for a public company that will carry out, or can offer, tasks in the future. Similarly, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I am a little concerned about those exceptions which are quite often applied in the public law, but it is a debate that needs to be taken in this context, so we support L 61.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103218	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103225	The Radical Left was initially not part of the political agreement which agreed to establish a permanent link from Lolland-Falster to Germany. After a while we chose to join the agreement because together with other parties we got a lot of landworks on the Danish side with us into the whole project. That is, in our view, among other things. some absolutely necessary railway facilities all the way from Ringsted and south, where there are additional tracks, a speed upgrade, an electrification and a lot of other things that are absolutely necessary to tie South Zealand and Lolland-Falster close together with the rest of the country. That is why, of course, we are very happy with this bill, which in itself formally amends the law, so that Sund & Bælt, who is to be responsible for the Fehmarn building, is given the authority, as it is said, to be able to create these landworks, which were therefore the reason why we in the Radical Left ended up supporting the Fehmarn project. That is why, of course, we are voting in favour of this bill, and we are delighted to do so, and we are particularly looking forward to these railway installations being built.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103340	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103350	There is no need to invent more deep plates than we already have, and since we can now see that we have good constructions... this applies to both Sund & Bælt and Banedanmark... I think we should take them and use them. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103404	There is just one comment from Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103409	That's how easy it is, sir. Karsten Hønge not! No, I just wanted to hear sir. Karsten Høng's statement on the consultation answer from the Danish media, which I myself mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, which, like the index finger, raises the way in which the Public Service Act, or rather the exceptions, is applied in relation to publicly owned companies, as is the case with this company, which is responsible for collecting tolls in connection with fixed links.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103447	I fully support the critical remarks made by both, Mr President. Henning Hyllested and Mr. Roger Matthisen had to do this. I fully endorse what has already been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103458	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103500	Then I also assume that the SF agrees that the derogations which have been written into the Public Service Act are now being applied far beyond what was intended and expected, and I say this, of course, because the SF has a certain share of responsibility for the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103520	I'd like to give you that. Henning Hyllested is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103528	As the Conservatives' rapporteur is not present, we move on to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103539	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. After all, the bill adapts some of the framework for Sund & Bælt's activities. It is therefore proposed that Sund & Bælt Holding A/S be given the opportunity to set up a company which can carry out, on a commercial basis, tasks relating to the establishment, operation and maintenance of electronic toll systems in connection with user-financed infrastructure in Denmark. This gives Sund & Bælt the opportunity to perform this task on the Frederikssund connection, and in this way we can be sure that bids will be made in connection with this task. At the same time, the bill proposes that it be clarified that the group's company BroBizz A/S can offer their payment solutions to any provider of transport and infrastructure in Denmark. After all, the Brobizz scheme provides a flexible payment solution for users, just as the Brobizz solution has proved attractive to other parts of the transport sector, among others. as access control at ports and in connection with parking. The companies A/S Femern Landanlæg and Femern A/S have been established as part of the Sund & Bælt group and have completed the planning of the Fehmarnbelt connection. The upgrading of the rail network between Ringsted and Nykøbing Falster has now begun and it is therefore important to establish the model for the operation of the new installations. As ownership will be shared between A/S Femern Landanlæg and Banedanmark, each party will as a starting point undertake maintenance and reinvestment tasks on their part of the line. The draft law proposes that the Minister should be authorised to entrust these tasks in respect of the A/S Femern Landplants railway facilities to Banedanmark. This will constitute a flexible and appropriate arrangement and ensure the consistency of the lines with the rest of the rail network, where Banedanmark is the infrastructure manager. The maintenance tasks will in all cases be carried out mainly by invitation to tender. I would like to thank you once again for your comments, and I look forward to the committee reading. As I have been able to hear, there might also be some who would like to discuss something that goes a little beyond the legislative proposal, and if you want to do so, we can do so in committee. I'd be happy to come over and talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103745	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103759	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124103822	After all, we have repeatedly criticized the current government for not doing enough in the field of transport policy, and have also said that we saw that something more happened, particularly in relation to the investment and construction side. Of course, we still think so, but there is rarely anything so bad that it is not good for anything else. What can be said is that, in a situation such as this, where there has been silence in the Ministry to tackle other challenges, the Minister and the Ministry have actually succeeded and I would like to commend them for having looked through a number of rules that have been inappropriate, where ordinary citizens have been caught up and where things have been heavy and bureaucratic. In other words, this is a legislative proposal which seeks to change the requirements that have been laid down so far that, if you have had to obtain a driving licence and have it issued or re-acquired, you have had to have a medical examination, and even if there is in fact another rule that says that, as long as you have a car with two rear-view mirrors, you are actually allowed to drive even if you have a hearing loss or are deaf. We in the Socialist Group believe that it is a positive proposal that the Minister should then propose to make it easier for these people so that they can obtain driving licences on equal terms with everyone else, because there is therefore the safety equipment that needs to be provided in the form of mirrors and other items. Nor is there any indication that there are any more accidents involving hearing loss, and there is in fact no reason to discriminate against them in a negative way, where they have to go up to medical examinations and other things. So we in the Socialist Group would actually like to acknowledge that the Minister has been given the opportunity to embark on these tasks. We understand that there are a number of measures in relation to what is called road medicine proposals, in other words, where citizens who have been put in a mess because of a health problem are put very difficult in relation to some of these procedures, and it is a good thing that the Ministry, with the Minister in the lead, has set out to clear this up so that we can have more comprehensible and sensible rules. So we understand that in the hearing answers submitted in this area • and this is from the Danish Driver's Teacher-Union, to the Association of Hearings, to Danske Seniors, Professional Seniers, Elders The case and others have been very positive statements in relation to this proposal. Because it makes sense that when you have rules that are inappropriate, you hurry to change them. So a big thank you to the Minister for making this proposal. It is a small but important and good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104103	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104114	Thank you for that, President. As has been said, it is a small proposal, but important for the people concerned, and here it is people with a reduced hearing function who no longer need a special medical opinion on hearing ability in order to obtain a driving licence. There is, of course, a saving in it, but there is also an equal position with everyone else who needs a driving licence. The two mirrors are likely to change, as all newer cars today are equipped with two mirrors, so that should not be a problem. What I also think is positive about the proposal is that the government should be praised for the fact that, as the proposal says, there will be no rules that are unnecessarily stricter than what is required by EU law in the third EU driving licence directive. It is new thinking on the part of the government that these EU directives are not actually being over-implemented, for that has been too common in a lot of other areas, among others. cabotage, so I'm glad. Since we are talking about reducing bureaucracy in this area of road medicine, I hope that we will also look at the rules for the renewal of driving licences and so on. related to diabetes, epilepsy and similar matters. Today it is very, very hasty and perhaps a little unnecessary by virtue of these EU rules. All in all, however, it is a very good proposal which the Danish People's Party can of course support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104252	Thank you. The next one is sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104301	Thank you. As I said, the draft law we are discussing today is part of a major reform work in the area of driving licences. The driving licence area has become unnecessarily bureaucratic. Long processing times apply, and we must take care of that. The draft law today proposes, as I said, that the hearing requirement for drivers of motor vehicles be abolished. Thus, medical examinations will not be required in future until the licence can be issued or renewed. We therefore ensure that the driving licence system is made more effective and debureaucratic. Similarly, we will not unnecessarily adopt a stricter line in the area of driving licences than the EU acquis. As it is today, it is already a requirement that cars should be fitted with two rear-view mirrors. Drivers with reduced or hearing capacity therefore have the opportunity to be adequately informed in traffic. It will therefore not affect road safety either, as the driver will still be able to orient himself in traffic by means of the mirrors in the car. So on that basis, I have to inform you that the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104414	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104428	I understand that the draft law is at least to some extent the result of a so-called administrative restructuring, as is called in the comments, of the handling of cases in the field of driving licences, so that it went from dealing with it in the 12 police circles to dealing with it in the two so-called administrative centres of the police. And that's what makes me feel a little double about this bill. I must immediately point out that the Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill. But when we raise our eyebrows a little bit, it is because this is kind of the result of the centralisation here, the accumulation of cases, the long processing times resulting from this so-called restructuring, and, as a result, attempts are being made to compensate or to deal with the problem, among other things. This bill. I understand that this is also part of the so-called reform work that the government is carrying out and that it must make health requirements more transparent for citizens. It is, of course, a noble purpose that we support. But I can't help thinking that you like to make a virtue of necessity. That is not how road safety is really discussed, as a starting point. This is because some administrative problems have been encountered with long processing times. Because you might as well ask yourself, why didn't you do this 10 years ago? Then there were also two rearview mirrors on all the cars, and this is evidently what the Danish Health Authority lays down must be present to compensate for reduced or total lack of hearing. So why not 10 years ago? No, then you didn't have long processing times, so for some reason it wasn't necessary, but it is now. There is, of course, a reason why Denmark places itself as well as we do in the context of road safety, namely that we are actually making tough demands on all sorts of areas and that we are fighting wildly to keep the pace down, if I may say so. However, I also note that later in this assembly we will have to deal with a legislative proposal that older people should not undergo a medical check or that the requirements for it should be relaxed. We just raised the age from 70 to 75 years, and now you want to cancel this. So, we on the Enhedslisten side are extremely aware of or very concerned about road safety, and I should like to admit that I myself, also in the Enhedslisten group, belong to the hardliners on that point. But that is, of course, because we are dealing with cars which are the clean killing machines in the hands of unsavvy or unqualified people or people who, in terms of health, do not meet the requirements. In our opinion, obtaining a driving licence is not really a human right. Of course, however, it is a question of ensuring mobility for people, including people with disabilities, of course, and this can be done in many ways. The government does not exactly have public transport in the field of pleasure growing, so that is another problem. But, of course, we are in favour of the bill because we note that the health service's requirement to compensate for loss or loss of hearing is that there are two side mirrors, and that is considered sufficient. And, of course, it also makes the impression that there are already many exemptions or licences for hearing impaired people. It is also clear that the two rear-view mirrors are standard and are a condition for obtaining EU type-approval today. So it must be said that you are covered in. Then you just have to hope that the Danish Health Authority has a team in the documentation that it is sufficient. So for the time being, we assume that it is, and that is why we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104840	Thank you. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104848	Thank you. Contrary to the previous speaker, we do not think that the authorities should use their energies to solve non-problems, and that is why we are very pleased with the work that the Ministry has started. Otherwise, I do not think I can contribute much to the debate. Most things have been said. It is a proposal that will soften up in relation to a certain hearing capacity in order to drive certain motor vehicles. We can easily agree to that. We certainly believe there is reason to believe that hearing impaired people are even more sensitive as drivers than many healthy people will be, with the compensation options we have today. We see no reason why the legislation should operate with such restrictions. After all, we are not dealing with visual impairments. We agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104941	Thank you. Sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124104947	Thank you. To the previous rapporteur, I can say that in the near future we will have self-propelled cars, and then the visually impaired will be allowed to be mobile to the same extent as all of us. In the alternative, we are very concerned about working on equality, with discrimination, and that is why I really think that is the thematics that I am going to talk into this bill. Because it's about getting equality in our society, and it's clearly with the image of a teenager sitting listening to loud music, versus a hearing impaired that it's the side mirrors that you need to use primarily in terms of being a good and proper driver. So, of course, the hearing impaired should not be discriminated against, and I am really glad that the government has taken a position on this bill. I think that this issue of discrimination and equal treatment is really something that we may all be asking for, and I would urge that we are concerned about this in the Alternative • should think into all our legislative proposals. It is also true, with our rural areas, that you think twice about how it affects the whole of Denmark. So with that I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105108	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105116	In the Radical Left, we believe that we here in the Folketing should help all people as far as possible to achieve the dignity that it is to be able to fend for ourselves, the freedom that lies in being able to fend for themselves and support themselves, so that we do not have to be dependent on everyone else. When I meet with Danish Handicap organisations, they tell me that the purpose of their work is to ensure that people with different disabilities can, as far as possible, be self-help and take care of themselves on an equal footing with everyone else in society. Of course, there are people with disabilities who do not make it possible for them, unfortunately, but at least I think that we in Parliament should ensure that we do not help to ensure that people with different disabilities cannot cope on the same terms as everyone else. Of course, it may sound a little strange that this bill removes the requirement that people should be able to hear when they drive a car. But if you think about it a little, then for all of us who can at least physically hear well, there is no requirement that we also hear when we drive a car. We can sit on our headphones and hear something from the phone, we can listen to loud music, we can talk to those who are in the car, we really don't have to be able to hear even if we can physically hear. Therefore, it is not reasonable that people with different types of hearing loss should not be allowed to drive on an equal footing with the rest of us, because we are not required to hear from the rest of us when we drive a car. That is why I think it is a perfectly reasonable and good proposal to eliminate this discrimination against these people so that they can easily obtain a driving licence like all of us. That is why we in the Radical Left are happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105318	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105328	It is unfortunate enough in itself to be hearing impaired, and there is no reason why the state should continue to discriminate and discriminate. SF supports this bill that can help make a group of citizens more self-reliant or even self-reliant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105344	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105355	We also support the bill. We do this because we want to help ensure that the hearing impaired can be allowed to drive a car and thus have the same opportunities as everyone else to get around. But I must also say that I think the debate here has been a little blind to the drawbacks of this bill. I heard the three previous rapporteurs talk about discrimination. That is not what we are talking about. It is a matter of security, and so it is not entirely without problems with this bill, because you often use your hearing to orient yourself in traffic. It is a right and a good argument that when you are allowed to hear loud music with headphones while driving, you must also be allowed to drive if you are not able to hear normal. However, I do not think we should be blind to the fact that in some situations traffic accidents can therefore happen because people are unable to hear. When I drove out on Amager a few days ago, I was at a corner where I couldn't see anything, and there I used my hearing to tell me if there were any cars that I couldn't see around that corner. When people use their car horns in traffic to point out that they are near a vehicle whose driver may not have seen them, they also use their ears to orient themselves in traffic. So I think it is a little one-sided that we are not at all aware that there are actually some problems if people have hearing loss. I am not an expert, so I cannot say how big the problem is, I cannot say how many dangerous situations could arise. But we would like to see, when we introduce this requirement, we try at some point to get some statistics from other countries to see if this is a problem and that we also keep an eye on whether traffic accidents occur for these reasons. Because it is a matter of safety and it is quite serious if there are road accidents. So we may think that one should be a little cautious and that one recognises that there is a reason why this requirement was originally introduced. But that doesn't change the fact that we support the bill. In general, we are in favour of deregulating and removing requirements that are not necessary, and we also believe that when you weigh the advantages against disadvantages, it must be a very great advantage for the hearing impaired that they can be allowed to drive a car, and that is why we intend to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105618	Thank you. Sir. Roger Matthiesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105622	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. Now it is the case that our world was not even as enlightened as it is today, and that is why we have had both unspoken and written rules on laws and measures that discriminate against some sections of the population, but then we have become wiser, and that is also why we have, for example, adopted laws on human rights, equal treatment and so on. After all, there is evidence, and we can also read in our consultation answer that the mirror mirrors should be enough to orient themselves, then the rapporteur acts on the basis of known knowledge, or is it perhaps more an emotional orientation to the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105719	I can't even see where Mr. Knox is. Roger Matthiesen wants to talk about discrimination and human rights. Discrimination is if rights are removed from human beings on an unbiased basis. For example, if people have a different skin color and then cannot get a job or cannot get into a disco or anything else, it is unfair discrimination. It is not discrimination, for example. people who do not have their legs cannot walk, or when there are some physical reasons why you have to treat people differently. Nor is it discrimination against the blind that they are not allowed to drive. I think it's a little irresponsible to call this discrimination. It is a question of taking safety into account and recognizing that hearing is also an advantage when moving around in traffic. That's common sense, and that's what I'm basing myself on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105814	Sir. Roger Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105816	In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur that discrimination is not equal to the same treatment for all. Sometimes we have to discriminate precisely to be equal, so I agree with the rapporteur. The reason I was talking about discrimination from the platform was precisely because I think that this is something we need to think into all our rapporteurs, and this is right to the right and is a blatant discrimination against hearing impaired people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105844	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105846	It is always fine if you can get some programme declarations and plus words into your rapporteur's speech, so I think the alternative should be allowed to do so. But I do not think that common sense should be ignored in the sacred name of plunder, and I think it is common sense to have some reservations. When people's senses are impaired, they find it difficult to orient themselves in traffic, and then there is also a risk of them moving in traffic. So, as I said, we are voting in favour of the bill because we can also see the benefits of this, but I think the debate may have just been slightly overwhelmed when people start talking about discrimination and human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105927	Thank you. There are no further comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124105938	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. There were some variations about it, but I saw it generally positive. I would also like to start by saying that there were some questions, and I will come back to them at the end of my speech. But first of all I would like to say that the aim of the proposal is to enable people who are hearing impaired or deaf to obtain driving licences under the same conditions as others. I must also say that when we have to do this by law, it is because the rule here dates back to 1913. As it is, deaf and hearing impaired persons must be examined by the doctor for the impaired hearing before they can obtain a driving licence and the medical certificate sent to the police to decide whether the person concerned can obtain a driving licence. For other persons, the decision is taken by the municipality, which takes considerably less time. People who are deaf or hearing impaired must therefore undergo a much longer and more complicated procedure, even though lack of hearing does not pose a risk to road safety. We must therefore remind each other that we have made a rule here, not on the basis of road safety, but on the basis of something else. For the lack of hearing does not pose a risk to road safety. After all, we are dealing with the traffic law today, and I just want to say that that is why the focus must be on road safety. I am also saying this a little because I do not want to get into a debate about what you might think of it. I can hear that there may be some points of view, but I am only dealing with this which forms the basis for the recordings I get from professional knowledge. It is only necessary to have two rear-view mirrors on your vehicle in order to compensate for the lack of hearing. And then we are at the point where one has to say that when one has a rule that that is what compensates, that is also what I think we should take as a basis. It already has the vast majority of vehicles today, and there are, for the most part, EU requirements for two rear-view mirrors. So there is no reason why we are calling for the renewal of driving licences by the deaf and the hearing impaired to undergo a health assessment to establish that their car must have two rear-view mirrors. It just doesn't add up. I would just like to urge that because we have been doing something for a long time that is so little an answer to Mr. Henning Hyllested doesn't have to be right. Well, it may well be that we have done something that is not, in fact, right. When we find out and get to it, I think we should go in there and look at it. And to the question that Mr. Henning Hyllested asked why it has not been done a long time ago, yes, there I have to say that it is out of my hands to respond to it, because I only got the traffic law into my area at the change of government, that is, about a year and a half ago. So I can't answer it. Because perhaps you could come back and see if there have been any reflections and such things, but I am going to be the questioner's answer, because I have only had this since we entered the government. The proposal here must ensure that the demands we make on people's health when they need a driving licence make sense. I therefore propose that we remove the requirement in the Road Traffic Code to have sufficient hearing capacity in order to obtain a driving licence. In general terms, I would say that, as I said just now, the requirement for hearing is back from the Road Traffic Act of 1913. It is in the preparatory work of this law that you must be able to hear well for driving licences. A change of law is therefore necessary to remove the hearing requirements of the driving licence order, as the driving licence order must not be contrary to the requirements of the law. Of course, that should have been done earlier, of course, one can easily discuss that. Because when you could compensate by having mirror mirrors, it doesn't make sense to have it standing. But that's how I think there's so much. But at least now we are doing it, and I understand that we are very much in agreement with it. Then I'd like to say a little bit about why we're doing this. Because why does it come up? Well, it does, because we in the Ministry of Transport and Building are in the process of doing so, and we have been doing so for well over the past year. The work consists, inter alia, of: In this context, I would like to draw attention to a number of points which have been raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and which have been raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. After all, most of the parties in the Folketing have been involved where we have discussed some things without me starting to discuss the settlements we have entered into with each other. But there's been a lot of things in here. And I would also just like to warn you that there is more in sight, because when we go in and look at the elderly and their conditions when they are going to have a driving licence, etc., I would hope that we in the Danish Parliament will also leave that as the main element, namely that we are looking at whether there is any road safety in it. We have also had some other things where we had a discussion about hashish and alcolocks etc. All I ask is that we keep this focus constantly, namely that when it is the traffic law we are talking about, we can have views in many areas of it I sign for and respect to such an extent that we do remember to call it by its right name. If this is a road safety issue, then it must also be justified by experts that it is because of road safety and not because of a different approach to it. Because I fully respect that you can have. So I ask the Danish Parliament to accept it, and I have heard you have done so. And at the same time, I announce that there are other things coming because we are doing a lot of work to find out if we have any more basic rules. We do. We have that which cannot be justified by road safety, but must be justified by something else. I also hope there is the goodwill of the Danish Parliament. Until then, however, I thank you very much for your kind reception, and I think there are many people who will be glad that this is the focus now that when we can go in and remove the demand here, it is because there are no concerns about road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110609	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110614	Now, of course, we support the bill, but perhaps I am not quite so uncritical as to whether there could be any road safety situations that could arise when people with impaired hearing are driving. I feel that one thing is that there may be some statistics and some experts who say something, but I also very much like to understand why things are as they are. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister could try to explain how it might be that if people lack a sense which they also use to orient themselves in traffic, so that, for example, they can do so. can hear if honked, if a car comes rolling or something, then does not pose a safety problem. I find it a little difficult to understand that there should be no problems at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110701	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110703	Thank you. Well, I don't want to get involved, because it's possible to imagine some things that I just can't imagine. But it has to be said that today there is no obstacle to ordinary hearing drivers cutting themselves off from external sounds, so we have thought that if you are sitting in a car or other, it is okay that you have cut off the possibility of hearing sound from the outside, as long as you live up to the demands of the traffic code to pay attention to traffic. You have to be, but I guess we agree on that's not how I understood the question. So it does not adversely affect road safety, therefore, that hearing impaired or deaf people drive a car, just as they already do today. As long as there are two mirrors on the vehicle, there is sufficient opportunity to compensate for the reduced or hearing loss. And that's what professional knowledge says, that when you can't hear sounds from the outside, you have to have the two mirrors so that you can orient yourself in that way. I understand, sir. Rasmus Jarlov says, because of course it has to do with experiences you can have. You can take that discussion, I can see that. But this is based on what professional knowledge says, and that's in that light, sir. Rasmus Jarlov needs to see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110821	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110824	It may be a little pedantry, but would it perhaps be more correct to say that, with regard to this amendment to the law, we do not think that the road safety problems are large enough for us to maintain the ban rather than to say that there are no problems at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110842	Yes, a long life in politics • The many years I've had the pleasure of being Minister have taught me that I should stick to the points I've gotten from professional knowledge, and in them it says that there is no traffic safety risk. I understand, sir. Rasmus Jarlov says, 'cause you could have some experiences of that kind, but I don't think there's any evidence of that if you go in there and look at it. So it has been thought that if there are two rear-view mirrors, it will compensate for that because of course it is compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110913	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110938	The debate is open. And it's Mrs. Christine Antorini first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124110947	The draft law we are discussing today stems from an agreement that was implemented last year, an agreement that improves the benefit system. And I do not think anyone in this Chamber is aware that it has been a very big discussion that there was some deterioration in the benefit system, which meant that too many people got out of the benefit system. An agreement was made which ensured that at least 2 000 people less a year would get out of the unemployment benefit system, losing their daily allowance, an agreement between the Left, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. It is an important agreement that means a great deal to those people who would otherwise have been seriously caught up in it. The financing of that agreement is being found here, and that is the bill we are discussing today. The money is found by the fact that it is no longer fully financed by the state, if you already have an ordinary full education, to take a new ordinary full education at the same or lower level. This means that there are still plenty of opportunities for training. You can build on the education that you have and there are a number of opportunities within the continuing training system that we have today. This bill will not change that. If you want to build on top, for example. If you are a police officer, you can continue to study law, or if you are a nurse, you can read the medical Master's degree programme, and there are a number of possibilities to supplement a professional or bachelor's degree programme. And if you look at the continuing training system, it will be the case that there is open education, diploma education, master, merit education, etc. There's no change in those options. There will also be no change in the scope for participation payments or anything else. There are the existing ways to supplement its education, to build on top or next to it. At the same time, some exemptions are included in the legislative proposal. This means that if you have not used your education for five years, you have the opportunity to start a new ordinary whole higher education course anyway. The same is true if, for health reasons, you have to change track and you can also take a new ordinary education. Finally, a positive list is drawn up in relation to where the labour market needs more with specific training courses. At the same time, I would like to say that I and we in the Social Democratic Party can understand that there are some who have a dream that you can start all over again on another education and would like to completely change track. And I can understand those who feel that here they get stuck in relation to what was their dream. But from the point of view of where it is that money can be found and which does not prevent free and equal access to education that we have in Denmark, we think this proposal is reasonable. When you look at how many people will be affected by the opportunities for double training and now I disregard the derogations that are available, it is relatively few. But, of course, that doesn't change the fact that for those who get stuck, it's just super bad. They have had a hope and a dream that they could go another way. What we hope is that with the exemptions that exist and the many opportunities available to build on or think in other ways, most people will still be able to see themselves in relation to education as well. And once again, you have to remember that Denmark is in fact one of the only countries in the world that has so far allowed you to take more full education without paying for it. It will also be the case that the Ministry will contact the various degree programmes in order to explore better opportunities for professionally relevant transitions from bachelor to candidate, as well as a discussion on whether it is possible to offer more part-time courses. Last but not least, I would like to point out that, in addition to the fact that it helps to finance the fact that more people do not get out of the benefit system, a pool has also been set aside, which among other things. will strengthen practical training in the entire field of the profession. There will be a development programme which will help to strengthen the development work that is extremely important for the entire field of the profession, in terms of how to use the practice-based knowledge in relation to pedagogy, in relation to health, in relation to a number of the field of practice that we are incredibly dependent on all the time being developed. Quality will be improved in practice and clinics; guidance and feedback will be strengthened; digital training opportunities will be increased; language areas will be strengthened; and, finally, there will also be a better opportunity to exploit public research through entrepreneurship. So this pool is helping to enhance the quality of the field, not least in the field of the profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111449	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111454	Thank you. First of all, I have to say that I am very sorry about this proposal, because I think it will limit many people's ability to take the education they want. When it is said that it is to raise money for the benefit agreement, I also find it regrettable. After all, it was a patchwork solution which was largely paid by the unemployed, and young people have already had to pay once in the form of graduating rates. I find it very regrettable that the Social Democrats are now helping to cut the money for education. In fact, I do not think that is fair or wise. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. There are a lot of people getting into trouble because this is going to apply as early as next summer. They have received student guidance to complete a bachelor's degree programme and then start a new one. Will it not be considered by the Social Democrats to extend this so that those who have adapted their education programmes will have the opportunity to correct them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111552	For the sake of good order, I would just like to say that the money that is being found for the benefit area improves every year at least 2 000 people's chances of staying in the benefit system instead of falling out. So this is actually for the benefit of people that I know that Enhedslisten is also concerned about having better opportunities. It is true that there will be some who get stuck when you change the legislation, which is also going to happen here. One of the priorities is to strengthen guidance on what is of other options. And there are a number of other options. I admit that if you have a dream that it should be precisely that education, and you have hoped that you might be able to talk about it via quota 2, it is just not the world's best proposal for the individual. However, if you have time, and this is the case until the summer, you have to be guided into the range of other opportunities and there are a number of candidate opportunities on the vast majority of the courses that could otherwise be affected here, and there are a number of opportunities within the continuing training system, in the field of credit training, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111654	But there are people who are currently in the process, who have been trained to run the training programme and who will then start a new bachelor's degree this summer. There aren't any admissions to all courses in the winter, so there are many who have planned their training courses after that. Wouldn't it be a fair thing to say what legal certainty is also to give the people that they first phased in this with recordings about e.g. 11⁄2 years, so that you could actually adjust to it? People really can't do that now. They're just gonna get stuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111726	One is the revenue that lies in it, because this is also being done. It's just to say that if it were the best of all worlds, we wouldn't think this is what you should do first. But there is, of course, an economy in what helps to finance both in terms of daily allowances, the promise to those who do not have to smoke out, and the quality pool for higher education. So the economy is tied up to the fact that it enters into force after the summer holidays, but that doesn't change the fact that there is still an opportunity to get guidance on what then. However, some of the inquiries I have seen are a lot about trying to qualify by trying to get in via quota 2, and there will still be some opportunities to use it to think about what is of other roads close to what you may have as your dream. But there will be some who get caught up in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111809	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111812	Nor should there be any doubt that in the Radical Left we simply think that this is a completely meaningless proposal and is really, really a pity that the Social Democrats support this proposal which offers fewer opportunities. However, I would like to follow in the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten track because there are a great many people who are getting stuck now, and there are also people who have paid for continuing training for individual subjects, for other things, so that they could get ready to go into the other education. What will social democracy do for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111850	It is true that when there is a change of law, there are some people who get stuck. Fortunately, however, there are a number of possibilities here for building up on top, perhaps by a little different paths than what was intended, but there are possibilities for superstructure, and there are a number of possibilities within the continuing training system. After all, it is important that this guidance is used for how to be guided over. After all, some of those who are caught are trying to qualify via quota 2, for which there is no guarantee, no matter what, that you would then be admitted via quota 2. But of course, unfortunately, when you make some changes, there are some who get caught up in it. This also applies to the many people, and I am sorry to have to say this to the Radical Left, with the loss of benefit which the Radical Left helped to bring about, which was so badly affected by it. They then get a helping hand through the economy that is being provided here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111936	So social democracy will not help to prolong the possibility for the people who get into a mess. I just need confirmation. And the Social Democratic Party won't help finding money for these benefit recipients somewhere else. It will continue to be areas of education that have to hold up when money is to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124111958	The agreement that was made to save at least 2 000 people a year, who would otherwise get out of the benefit system, is, after all, legislation that has been adopted in another circle. We're extremely happy that we're helping these people. If there are some specific places where we can do something in relation to counselling, if there are some places where there are some courses that need to be better at ensuring some transitions from one to the other, we would very much like to take a look at it. It is also one of the things described in the agreement that we have made, precisely to provide more flexible opportunities. But there is, of course, an economy at the root of this, and that is why it will also be the case that legislation will come into force here from after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112033	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112035	Thank you. I was somewhat surprised when I saw that the Social Democratic Party was in on this bill. I was, because I have often been in debates around with the Social Democratic Party and agreed, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that a fundamental right in Denmark is the right to free and equal access to education. Now you cut the minimum, at least if you're going to follow the bill, 1,500 people's access to change track because they've gotten smarter. You don't even give them the opportunity, if they want to pay for themselves, to take an education that is full-time. I think the rapporteur, like myself, has been called down by people who say: now I cannot be what I dream of. Now I can't be a doctor if I'm a nurse, now I can't be a teacher if I'm a social worker. Does the rapporteur agree that this is a dispute with a fundamental idea of free and equal access to education in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112139	I completely disagree with the rapporteur on this. There is free and equal access to education, and so will there be after this bill. All people can choose if they meet the requirements of it, starting without payment on a higher education course. That's not gonna change. What is being changed is how many times you have to be able to start all over again by taking a full, whole higher education and then taking a new full, whole higher education instead of considering, such as: a teacher would have the opportunity or a social worker, or if one became a primary school teacher, that one can take a part-time credit course in a shorter period of time. So there are a number of possibilities, both for building on top, nor does the bill close down, you can always build on education, and fortunately there is a rich supply of post- and post-secondary education that offers the flexibility that needs to be available to change paths as well. So no, this does not violate the principle of free and equal access to education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112237	Some of the people who are being cut off from taking the education they want to because they have become smarter with age that is also what I think is the intention of education • the rapporteur proposes to take it through merit or through part-time training. I would like to hear, because I think this is actually quite interesting: can the rapporteur guarantee that all the students who are today being told that they cannot take the education they dream of as second education can take it through other ways, through part-time education? Can the rapporteur guarantee that this will be an opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112310	This is probably not going to be an option for everyone, and I will give an example. I think that is also what the rapporteur is thinking about. If, for example, you're gonna have to... is a nurse and wants to be a doctor, you have to do it all over again. Whether it is possible to make it part-time, I am not sure, because it contains elements which are still so different from nurse training that it is not certain that it will be possible to do so. On the other hand, there are a number of possibilities that a nurse can build on top as a candidate, for example. in the field of public health. So there is, of course, a range of options for how a nurse can also acquire a range of competences that are at university level.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112348	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112350	Thank you. I am just wondering, now that we are talking about it with nurses and becoming a doctor, that completely, completely in isolation, it seems quite in the air that a nurse forward-looking in Denmark cannot become a doctor. I don't think there are many other countries where there is. Like the rapporteur from the SF, I have also been in many debates with people from the Social Democratic Party who have been very fruitful in terms of education. Then I just want to ask you something. In other words, I recognise that some money has had to be found for an unemployment benefit which has had to be financed, but I completely disagree with finding that money in the field of education, so my question to the rapporteur is: if this had not been a situation where there was to be some money for another agreement, would the Social Democratic Party itself have made this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112446	I do not think that would be the very first proposal we would make. However, having said that, we do think it makes sense to say that, of course, we should be able to have free and equal access to full and full higher education. But it must also be the case that you have to tell people that it is not necessarily the case that you have the right to take an entirely new higher education. Because there are a number of other options today. Everyone, including this bill, can build on top of the continuing training system. Let's take that one with a nurse and a doctor, for my time was completed, also in relation to Mr. Jacob Mark. This means that today there are some, we give 9 1⁄2 years of education; 4 1⁄2 on a professional bachelor's degree and then a 5-year-old candidate on top, i.e. 9 1⁄2 years of education. I don't think there's a lot of places in countries where you give it. One might say that it is fantastic that we have had the opportunity, but from there to say that it is a disaster, I think there is a long way to go. If we look at how many nurses have gone that way, it's 9 people. I am quite sure that the nine people are excellent doctors, but I think that there should also be some proportion to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112549	In principle, with the new high school reform, you will be able to go out of the 9th grade and take an HF. If you're 15 years old when you're out of 9th grade, you're 17 years old when you've taken an HF. At that time, you can then make an educational choice, for example. choose to become a nurse. Does the rapporteur consider that a 17-year-old is able to make an educational choice which will be so crucial? Because you can't choose again because of this law when you've taken that education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112627	We can at least see by looking at the figures that there are many who are able to do so. There will be just over 2,000 people who will be affected by this bill. But does this mean that they cannot pursue the dreams they have in relation to education after all? No, there are many possibilities for superstructures that they can continue to take and there is a very wide range of continuing training opportunities that they can continue to take within the same conditions as now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112651	We thank Mrs Christine Antorini and move on to the rapporteur's report. Jens Christian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124112705	This bill is, as has been mentioned, a follow-up to the agreement on the financing of the agreement on a safer daily allowance system between the government, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party. The proposal limits the possibility of taking two courses at the same level. And somewhere I might see something reasonable in that you can't just get one education after another and plan for it. A number of challenges have been mentioned. I have also heard from many people that it is of course difficult if you have made a plan and then cannot implement it as you intended. I fully understand that if you can't. That is why I also think it is very important that we are keen on both the exceptions that are part of this and all the alternative options that exist and that we also have the expectation that we will be working to expand to the extent that is necessary. Let me take the exceptions first. If you are unable to take up your profession because of sickness, you may be allowed to take a new course of training. If you have not used your education for five years, you can also get a new one. It's true for people like me and probably for most people in here that we haven't used our education for a few years, so there'll be an opportunity there. There will also be those training courses where it can be said that there is a large and documented need for society, so there will also be opportunities. In addition to that, we also have all the opportunities in the legislation today for different forms of payment training. There is open university, there are continuing training systems in the form of diploma and master courses and there are a number of credit courses etc. What I would, of course, call on the educational institutions to do in this context is to pay attention to what is possible. Is there any options missing? Is there anywhere you can open up that this could be a road? It is therefore a question of making and informing the public, and I know that at least the Ministry has a long overview of all the possibilities that exist, and of course you have to be good at getting them out. And we can also report them to both the people who contact us, but also to universities and other educational institutions, so that, of course, the young people who would otherwise be in a position to get caught up in what opportunities there are. Finally, it is also part of this agreement and the additional agreements that are, for example, that. the problem that has been mentioned several times, with designers, engineers and architects, in other words, where some of them would like to take a designer's training, and then they find out that it might also be wise to have an architect's training, because the competences can complement each other, which lies as part of the agreement, that the Ministry takes up the educational institutions and looks at what skills are lacking. Are there any further training opportunities that should be there? There are, of course, many areas where it may be good to be able to supplement. But in my head it is really about continuing training, that is to say, that you have to build on and learn something more so that you can become more skilled and thus fulfil the functions that are needed in the workplace. That is why my conclusion is that there are really good opportunities, and we must, of course, work to ensure that there are more opportunities where it is needed and where it is relevant. One can say that in the best worlds we could all be allowed to educate ourselves all our lives completely free of charge, and that would be really nice. But when there are limited resources, I think it is really nice that we in Denmark can stick to the principle of free and equal access to an entire education. I think that is central to us. The Danish People's Party supports the bill, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113043	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113048	As I also said to the Social Democratic Party, I believe that this proposal is one of the worst educational proposals that has been put forward in the time of this government. I believe that this is a fight with the right to free and equal access to education. It may be that you can take one education, but what is meant by education is that you have to learn more. And if you look at it as a social worker, for example. find out that you may belong more on the shelf called the pedagogy shelf, or if you find out as a nurse that you want to be a doctor, I think it is really sensible both for them and for Denmark that they have the opportunity to choose again. I am concerned that the Danish People's Party is helping to relax free and equal access to education. I would like to ask a more specific question: what does the rapporteur think about the risk that many of the students who are going on education right now will drop out because they can see that they cannot take a new education? Among other things, it says: in the consultation answers that the professional colleges say they are afraid that students drop out so they are sure they can take another education. Does the rapporteur think that this is a risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113154	I think it is an interesting consideration that one should have started an education while one would really rather have another. In fact, I would like to say that it is also an opportunity today that if you have started an education and find out that it is the wrong education, then you have to stop the sooner, the better and get to the education that is right for you. So it does not make sense in my mind to go on three or four years in an education in order to be able to take a new 3, 4, 5 years of education afterward. So I think that some of what we need to work on is, of course, to help with advice and guidance that you choose correctly and find out what you really want to do, while at the same time, in a number of these areas, there will be an opportunity to take a credit course if you want to be a social worker. So there will still be an opportunity to build it up as something you build on. And I think that is the central and important thing in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113245	That's a pretty interesting way of thinking about education. For example, I have. got many emails that I have 1⁄2 years left of my professional education, but I'm not sure that's what I'm going to do for the rest of my life, and then the person drops out. Would it not make more sense for such a person to actually complete his education? That's one thought. That is how I think education is, at least, that it is not just about getting them out as soon as possible, but that they are actually getting something out of finishing their education. Then I would like to ask another question: it says that this represents a saving of 342 million. kr., and that's including that 30 percent. If there is a derogation, but if there is no 30 per cent exemption from these rules, then this could lead to greater savings, i.e. greater revenue. Will the rapporteur promise that this money will then be spent on education, or is it the kind of money that can be spent on anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113330	I don't know if I completely understood. There's a big part of this money that's being spent on the benefit system. It's kind of part of the basic agreement. Then there is in the long term in the order of approx. 120 million, which are used to develop the quality of education of different kinds. So, yes, the extra proceeds in this agreement are being spent on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113355	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113358	I am very sorry about this proposal, too. I think it will cut off a lot of people from taking some education that we really, I think, benefit from their taking as well. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the rapporteur's basic problem with the fact that we can now have a teacher, for example? Who really wins by cutting off the opportunity for people to gain some experience in their working life and then train themselves through it? As I see it, neither society nor these young people, nor the individual, need help, which we are helping by shutting down this proposal. Is that not something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113457	I think it is a good thing that we should be smarter when we use our education and that we should have in-service training of different kinds. That is also why there are credit courses in some directions where it makes sense to say: Well you have the skills from an education that you have used for a period of time, and then you would like to change tracks a little, but still could use those competencies. This gives you a part-time credit course and gives you the opportunity that you would like to have. So I think that what needs to be done is as good an opportunity as possible for continuing training and for supplementing with the skills that are now needed in order to be able to develop in one's working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113538	But then I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the Danish People's Party will do in concrete terms to increase the opportunities for further education. Because as it is now, there are a large number of courses that it is not possible to take part-time and where you will not be able to do so there. How will the rapporteur ensure that it is not just those people who have enough money in their pockets who have this opportunity to adapt their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113603	But part of this is also a clear call for educational institutions to use the opportunities and look at the needs that exist. Of course, there must also be a need. Well, you can say that when you look at the width of this, you can see that there are a lot of educational combinations. But all the places where it is relevant and makes sense to have combined education and to do a merit education or to do an open education or to do some other kind of continuing training that can qualify, I would just urge you to take advantage of the opportunities that they actually have today to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113633	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124113643	Thank you for the floor. Politics is one long exercise in prioritising how we use our tax dollars, and the question of priorities is the starting point for this bill. As my two colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have explained, the draft law comes from an agreement we have previously concluded to strengthen the benefit system. The background is that at the beginning of 2014 more than 2,000 people began a new state-funded higher education after they had already completed one or two courses. I do not necessarily think this is always a good social investment. I think it is important that we as a society offer free and equal access to education in Denmark. And I have to say once and for all that the rapporteurs in here who claim that this bill is doing away with access to free and equal education are either populist or unable to read what the bill says. I think it is less than enough to claim that in this Chamber. Several have asked: What is involved in restricting someone's educational opportunities? I have to explain this quite clearly: when you have taken an education, received SU and taximeter money, and want to take another education that is dimensioned, you push out a person who does not have an education, that is, because you want to take an extra one yourself. Yeah, that's the facts. I want to be specific. There is an article in Politiken which several refer to where a nurse wants to become a doctor. The background is that 29 people tried to become a doctor after they had taken an education as a nurse. Being a doctor is an education that is dimensioned. The state often pays the salary, and we spend huge resources training them. We must also, because it is important that we have the best doctors at all. But for the fact that you as a nurse want to be a doctor, I would say that there are x limited seats, and if you enter medical school, you push out a person who does not have an education, i.e. because you want to take an extra one yourself. I understand the private and personal ambition. And like my colleague, Mrs Christine Antorini, I would like to express a great deal of sympathy that some people may be disappointed and concerned that the legislation is being implemented already. However, this will always be the case when you change the legislation and the basis for how to give priority to training funds. But to claim that this is a dispute with the right to free and equal access to education is simply not true. It's about not being able to push people in the back of the queue if you want to take an extra education. The Liberal Party considers this not to be unreasonable as a starting point. On the contrary, I think it is reasonable that those who do not have an education should be at the forefront of the queue, as opposed to those who want the second or third education. Fortunately, that is also the position of my party. Having said that, I would like to draw your attention to the series of various reservations and exceptions that apply. If you have not used your education for five years, you can start over. If your education is out of date, you can get an exemption. If you are physically or mentally incapable of carrying out the job that your education gives you access to, then you can also start a new education. And then there are a large number of training courses in occupations with a shortage of labour, which will be able to freely be included in a list of such courses will be available on the Ministry's website once a year. In short, therefore, I believe that the proposal offers a sufficient degree of flexibility at both individual and community level for this to be sensible. I have great respect for the fact that several of my colleagues in the Chamber have a different view. However, I think it is important that we debate the legislative proposal at the level and basis on which it is written, and not at the level at which it is thought to be perceived. I do not think that serves the debate. With those words, I would like to thank you for the floor and I look forward to the further debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114046	It's already coming. We have brief comments to make. First, it's Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114052	If we now buy the premise that there are some who push some others out when taking an education, could not a legislative proposal have been made instead, which would have meant that those who do not have an education have the right of priority or priority to receive the education in question than those who may have another education behind them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114118	Thank you for the question. I am glad that we then agree, because that is exactly what we have done. There are a wide range of courses with free and open admissions. And the education programmes that are not dimensioned are open to access.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114131	I just need to get it right. It is a state-funded training with free and open admissions. If someone has a bachelor's degree, let us say a social worker who would like to have another bachelor's degree, will he be able to enter another bachelor's degree, which is fully state-funded, with free and open admission?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114201	As a starting point, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114210	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114211	I am a little surprised by the rapporteur, because there is a good deal in the proposal that one should not take a bachelor's degree and then take another bachelor's degree afterwards. I guess it's like the hops in this whole proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114230	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier asked me about an open education premise, and that is what I was replying to. I think you can read it in the minutes, because that is at least how I understood it. I have no intention of telling you anything other than what the bill says. We are in a situation where education is dimensioned, i.e. restricted, where there are x number of study places. There will be no more study places, just because a person with one education wants to take education no. 2. It just means that a person without education isn't given the opportunity to get in. If, then, there are training courses where there is a shortage of labour or where there is open education, then you are free to continue training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114311	You can call it what you want, but this is going to delimit some people from taking the education they have planned. That is also why the parties to the agreement can get some money into it. That's what it looks like, and I'm really worried about it. But I would like to spend my time asking the rapporteur something: is it not unreasonable that right now there are people who have been trained to follow a particular course of study and they will be in the position this summer that they simply cannot continue that plan because the government and the parties to the agreement are introducing it at such short notice that they do not have a Chineseman's chance to do anything about it, and they may in fact have wasted up to several years so far? Isn't that pretty unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114355	To respond to the rapporteur's first comment, I would like to say that I do not think it is unreasonable that, as a society, we should offer free education up to PhD level. If you then want to take the next one, I do not think it is unreasonable that you should, so to speak, be in the back of the line. After all, we are a society in which we offer education as a starting point, because we have the expectation that that education will be used to get a job. Then, on various questions, there have been examples of asking my colleagues and myself: what about this person with a professional bachelor's degree who wants to continue training? Fortunately, there is a wide range of opportunities for continuing training, and this draft law also contains a concrete call for both professional academies, professional colleges, universities and other educational establishments to make more education open and accessible at part-time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114440	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114441	Thank you. It is simply embarrassing that the rapporteur does not know the bill. It is simply embarrassing that the rapporteur is saying that in future you can take another bachelor at the same level if there are seats available if you have a bachelor in advance. It's wrong. That's where the money comes from. That is what the draft law is about. It is also wrong when the rapporteur says that students today take vacant places from others. The law in force has been and now I am reading from the bill: As an element in regulating access to higher education, it is now stipulated in the above-mentioned admission notices that applicants who have completed a Master's degree programme can only be admitted to a new higher education programme if there are vacant places. So it is simply wrong to use the students and play them off against each other. Does the rapporteur agree with this and will the rapporteur open the way for students to be able to speak about them when seats are available? And if the rapporteur does not want to do so, will the rapporteur open the door to the students themselves at least being allowed to pay for an education? That's pretty liberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114554	Then it is the rapporteur who is given the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114556	Yeah, and I appreciate that. I have a great deal of personal sympathy for Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, but I think it might be a good idea to accuse me of not knowing the bill when you see yourself in your question that you have not understood what I have said. It is true that with the current rules today you cannot take a full Master's degree and then start over on a full Master's degree, but what I replied to was a question about nurses with a professional bachelor's degree who want to become doctors. In the case of medical training, in other words where there are a limited number of places, a person who does not have an education today will be pushed out if he wants to take an extra education. I do not think that is wrong. That's kind of the facts, that's right. That's how the system works. I think it is important that you have good opportunities to continue and retrain, but I have to say that I do not want it to be like in the United States, where it does not matter how good you are; as long as you have enough money, you can become a doctor, an economist or a researcher. I don't think that would make sense. I think it's about what cut people have, what personal qualities they have, and the way universities prioritise quota 2, and I'm sure they're better at that than we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114701	If the rapporteur does not think that we should move towards US states, one could not pass a bill such as this, which actually means that we are moving there. Having said that, I would like to ask again about the issue of payment. If there are programmes where, moreover, there are seats available and where the students really want to read, and if the government then says that we have to save some money, so we cannot pay for it, why not let the students pay for themselves? Why not at least give them that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114736	For courses that are not dimensioned, it should be possible to consider making that model. However, as I have said for the third time, I think it is important to have open education, in other words to provide more flexible opportunities, and this can be done without additional payment. Thus, the marginal cost of having an extra sit on a team in law school or other is not necessarily the same as it is when training an engineer or a doctor where there are laboratory needs and other. It is, of course, a discussion that lasts longer than the two seconds that I now have left of speaking time, but we can probably continue with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114810	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114814	Thank you. It is new to me that despite your competences you can buy a master's degree in the United States that's exciting, I didn't hear that. I know there are funny stories, but I don't believe that, but let it go. The interesting thing for me is that today, after this law is passed, you can take a professional bachelor's degree, and then you can take a Master's degree, for example. in languages that are also dimensional education, but you cannot take a social worker training course. Can the rapporteur explain to me why it is finer and better to take a master's degree in languages than to take a parallel education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114900	I think that's gonna be hard to explain. On the other hand, you can arrange to become a social worker by virtue of your merit. I think that is a much better answer. But I would also like to say that we had the pleasure of visiting Stanford, which is by the way one of the world's best universities, and at Stanford it is so that if you pay to come in, it is because you haven't had a high enough cut to get the education free of charge that is what my remark covered up. It covers the fact that at the Ivy League universities, which are the finest and have most research funding, it is those who pay, who often have the lowest cut; for those who have the highest cut in the system, come in without having to need a penny. I also have to say that we are one of the only countries in the world with free and equal access to education where the state finances all the way. At the same time, we have the world's highest SU, also following various reform proposals. In other words, sitting here in the Parliamentary Chamber suggesting that we are approaching an American or Anglo-Saxon level is evidence of a total ignorance of how other societies are screwed up. I have to point that out, and I think it is kind of stupid for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124114955	Yes, I fully agree with that, but it was the rapporteur who brought it up, in other words that it was in the United States that one could buy oneself for a master's degree. I just want to deny that, you can't. You can buy your way into a university, but you cannot buy your way out of a university, and I think the rapporteur agrees with that. He should not take it so personally and be demagogic. It was the rapporteur himself who brought it up so that the rapporteur could take it really calmly. However, I find it interesting that the rapporteur believes that the rapporteur cannot explain it, so why a Master's degree can be taken in French, but not a social worker's education, for example. if you're a teacher. The rapporteur then says: yes, but you can take a credit instead. You're gonna have to pay for that. Why, then, is it that the rapporteur is not in favour of paying for his master's degree?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115045	Now it's a lot of different things. I mean, it was kind of just to finish our American debate and I'll get back to the main question... which I had with Mrs. Eva Flyvholm and Mr. Jacob Mark a little earlier. Speaking time is limited. In other words, I think it is an excellent system that the people who work as educators at a primary school and suddenly start teaching as temporary workers receive a credit teacher training in cooperation with the place they work. And I think it's also on the social worker side. If there are any imbalances such as those mentioned by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and the example here, I understand the oddness of the matter, then I would like to take a look at them. After all, we are not more demagogic in spite of accusations about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115125	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115147	I think this proposal, which comes from the agreement between the Social Democratic Party and the Government and the Danish People's Party, is an incredibly bad proposal. It really upsets me to think that this is going to cut off a lot of people's opportunities to get the education they want. It is people who have discovered that they want a different path from the one they have entered or who consider that they need both these two courses to strengthen their professional skills. I believe that we have all experienced, in other words the education rapporteurs, that since this agreement was concluded, we have had a lot of desperate inquiries from people who are in the process of a training course and who have had some thoughts and ideas that they should be something else, but are now being cut off from it. There are, for example: someone who has written to us, who is a journalist, who has become extremely tired and sad to be in that profession and wants to do something else. Now her big dream is to become a midwife or a nurse. She'll be cut off from that. She's started qualifying for it. I am simply basically puzzled by the great concern that appears to exist in the parties to the agreement that some should take two courses. Some of the most common combinations at bachelor level are people who both take a bachelor in e.g. professional law and a bachelor's degree in law. They are educators who also become social workers; they are building designers who also become building engineers; they are marketing economists who also become multimedia designers; educators who also become primary school teachers. Quite frankly, one can well imagine that it actually makes very good sense that those people have the opportunity to combine those professions and that it will also be of benefit to all of us that people can continue to do this. I find it so difficult to see what the problem is that, having worked with vulnerable young people for some years, a teacher can see that it makes sense to become a social worker as well. I mean, who's gonna win if they don't? It is certainly not, I believe, the individual or the young, but it is not us as a society either. I am actually quite concerned, and I do not think that the parties to the agreement have thought through the consequences of this carefully enough. I think we can have a huge loss of welfare as a result of this. In general, I think it is very, very unfortunate to build barriers into our education system when what we need is flexibility. In other words, both the labour market and us as people are constantly changing, and if we are to be able to train ourselves all our lives, we also need flexibility which goes a little further than having to decide where we will be at the age of 40 at the age of 17. One of the things that I think is going to be the result of this is that more people will not complete the training they are doing. It can be seen that counselors also point to this as a concern. At this stage, you are guided to complete your bachelor's degree programme so that you can decide later whether or not to go another way. It is clear that now many who are in doubt will probably not complete their education, and I am concerned that it will simply increase the amount of students who drop out, and that is certainly neither economically nor socially in our interest. So it will certainly be a clear no on the part of the Enhedslisten, and I hope that we can have a great and thorough debate on this because I think there is a lot to lose by going this way. I also think it is important to consider what this will mean in terms of opening up to the fact that even more education will be something to pay and buy. I think this is a completely wrong development in society and it is very regrettable. Finally, I would like to propose to the government and the parties to the agreement as a minimum of decency, it can be said, in relation to the students who are affected by this, to make a longer phasing-in of the proposal, because it really is not reasonable for so many to get caught up in the system now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115632	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115637	Thank you for the floor. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem, as it is today, that if you have taken an education and have a sufficient level of education, you can apply for a dimensional education and thus push a person who does not have an education out of the educational queue? Another question is this: if you imagine that we are following the recommendation of the Enhedslisten and do not implement the legislation being debated today, then more than 2 000 people who are receiving unemployment benefits today will look forward to having a significantly more uncertain future in economic terms. How will Enhedslisten alternatively finance that part of the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115718	It is our view in the Enhedslisten that a much better agreement is needed in the area of unemployment benefits, which saves all the people who stand to fall out now. After all, there are far more, thousands of people who are not being saved by this patch solution that was the result. So there I think there is a need for far more intrusive solutions, and that could be done, among other things. finance by rolling back some of the tax concessions that lie there. I certainly do not want to finance this through the education system. Then I agree that it is a very relevant consideration and that a better solution needs to be found, but I do not believe that we will get it by stealing small sums from the education system. Then the rapporteur asks if I am not concerned that some people can push other people out of the seats. Frankly, this proposal prevents a large number of people from taking some combination courses. In other words, the heading is: to limit dual education. It is the government that is proposing to reduce the opportunities that they are now, and I am deeply concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115826	The rapporteur gives a number of examples. These are all examples covered by the credit system. What is our concern, and indeed it is something that has been completely absent from the debate so far, is that there are 2 000 people in this country who are taking another, third or fourth education. It's the community that pays for it. I think that the Community has an interest in this, and I think the rapporteur also thinks that the money we invest in education is spent on qualifying people to participate in the labour market. In fact, I think the rapporteur has skilfully failed to deal with this throughout the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115902	It is true that a large number of labour market organisations are also very, very happy that they have this opportunity to do these combination courses because they think they are getting very skilled labour out of it, and they stress that they are worried that flexibility will disappear in the system if people are cut off from it. So I think that's what I've been thinking about. With regard to the Community's use of resources, I have to say that I believe that investment in education is one of the very best things we can do for all of us, and I would prefer that at any time rather than reducing the tax on luxury cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115937	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124115940	Thank you. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's comments. Now there is a lot of talk about educating education and social workers etc., but in my view the right form is indeed the credit courses which actually provide the opportunity to combine the skills you already have, but what is in the specialty that you now want. So, according to the rapporteur, what is the challenge? In fact, I think that this is a very good solution that we must continue to work on, and I do not hear the rapporteur mention it as a real solution. Why not say that's the good way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120015	There is no doubt that if this proposal goes through, I also hope that opportunities for continuing training with payment will be increased, so that people will have the opportunity to do so here, so that these combinations can be made to a greater extent, as the rapporteur has also said. He hopes the educational institutions will look into that. I quite agree with that. Basically, however, I just have to say that I think there is some bias in the fact that only those who have more resources will be able to change paths in their education. That's some of what I'm sorry about. I think it makes sense and that it is also in our own interests as a society to keep the opportunities open for people to change paths when there are good reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120112	Well, there are very good opportunities. I think that anyone who takes more education in rap must have the resources to do so, so there is probably no one quite without the resources to go into such a process at all. That's why I'm just thinking about quality. Will the rapporteur confirm that taking a credit course is in fact just as qualified as spending all the time taking two full courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120139	Yes, I would estimate that it is at many levels. But it is true that many of the courses do not exist as merit courses, and a number of courses are organized after being full-time courses now, so with this proposal some people are cut off from opportunities that they currently have. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124120204	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 13.00 is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130010	The sitting is resumed. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130024	Bill No. L 69 is the implementation of an agreement between the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left, which guarantees the adoption of the bill by a very comfortable majority. And it can also be assumed that, by a majority across the middle, even though the debate that has taken place today has been critical, there is a guarantee of what political commentators such as a cliché call calm in the back. The fact that there is that agreement also means that objections and comments are primarily of academic interest or of interest to academics, which is the same thing. So I'm gonna make some academic comments. I myself have two master's degrees, and I have them in two subjects that have absolutely nothing to do with each other: cinema and sociology. For some periods I have lived on one degree, and for some periods I have lived on the other, and that is probably the last I have lived on. But no matter how and how I wouldn't be who I am if I didn't have both my master's degrees. And it has been of tremendous benefit both to me as a person and to the state in terms of tax payments. The reason why it was possible was that there was no state involved who had to study his total economy when I applied for admission to the University of Pennsylvania to study film science. There was only one university that found my application sufficiently interesting for me to enter, and then I got accepted and got the necessary grants so that it could be done. So morale is that the problems that Bill 69 is trying to solve arise from system needs. They are not really derived from anything that has to do with universities in a deeper sense. So my academic wish is that a very broad majority in the future will try to free the logic of the system from the academic logic of that is a pious desire from it. This will give academics better opportunities to thrive. However, in the Liberal Alliance, we support the proposal overall because there are some very reasonable and balanced mechanisms which make it very, by far, most people do not get into trouble in the system. There is one thing I would just like to remind you of at the end, and that is that when a bill is first examined, it is only 95-96 per cent. Done. So the call from us to the three parties to the agreement is that if, in the further work on the draft law, there were to be reasonable, reasonable objections, what do I know within the scope of some percentages up to 100%, then we should perhaps consider positively in the contract circle whether we can fine-tune the proposal at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130406	It gave rise to a few brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130411	I sat so admiringly listening to the speech, and then I wanted to make the same speech, but I haven't taken two master's degree programmes, so it would be a little strange. In fact, I think that the arguments put forward by the rapporteur are the precise arguments as to why we should not do this here, because it makes sense that education can make sense several times. It can make sense both for the individual, but also for society. And I also fully agree with the rapporteur that this is not about education. It is simply a question of some warped consideration of the state's economy, because it is said that if we ban people from taking a second education, there will be an increase in the supply of labour. And then I remembered that LA is on its way in government, and then I thought: well, that's probably why they choose to support the proposal anyway. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would then be possible to imagine that the rapporteur will work to ensure that a second training course can still be taken if you pay for it yourself. That's usually the logic of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130518	I mean it seriously when I say it at the end. So, quite basically, this project is a project that stems from a desire of some parties to do something for the benefit system, and then you have had to make some adjustments. So I know it may sound a little cowardly, but I think there are a few parties to the agreement to which we must appeal. And that is where I hope that if there are reasonable objections that make the proposal work more smoothly, we will look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130605	As I understand it, I hear the rapporteur saying in his speech that there are a number of things that are not being affected, so there are some exemptions. In the comments to the draft law, it is estimated that approx. 30% of those taking a double education today will not be affected. In other words, 70% are still being hit. Paragraph 1: Will the rapporteur be prepared for more people to be granted a derogation than is proposed in the proposal? And paragraph 2: Will the rapporteur be prepared to work towards being able to pay for a second education when it cannot be taken from the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130637	I really like the rationales that exist to grant exemptions, i.e. that there is a shortage of labour, or that, like employment, people are stuck where they are. It will then result in some such slightly different numbers. Well, it's just an estimate we have here. As a matter of principle: yes, but it must be in the context of a greater discussion and involving a larger circle of parties. Then I think that if you can free university education from the fact that there are always such state system requirements, that is actually a good thing in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130719	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130722	Thank you. I interpret a little what the rapporteur is saying, as if the rapporteur is in fact inclined to think, like many others, that this is a rather silly and bad proposal, but now you are on your way in government, so you can vote for it. But let it go. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not then be possible for the Liberal Alliance to work at least to put pressure on the parties to the agreement in relation to extending the deadline for this to begin to apply, because the rapporteur himself highlights the academic concerns, and I have to say that right now we are in a situation with a lot of people who have been given guidance on organising their training courses in a certain way and who are now in a terrible mess because this is being changed as abruptly as it does. Then it was not something that the Liberal Alliance would at least take to the parties to the agreement and say: could we at least make a longer transition? I think that would mean a lot to many students.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130822	So, quite real policy, this bill is linked to some changes in the benefit system. I really don't know exactly how the economy of these things is connected. This is something that should be taken up with the parties to the agreement and see how it then affects the other economy, which is in relation to revising the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130851	I would just like to know if the rapporteur is going to take it up with the parties to the agreement, because I am quite sure that the parties to the agreement are rather indifferent to the fact that I think this is a very bad, bad way to go. But I think it might mean more to them if a future government partner brought it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130910	Mrs Flyvholm must not be too disappointed if we do not take it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130915	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124130918	In fact, I think this is fair in principle. I have simply not yet understood what the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party really think about this bill. It may then be thought that it is an academic discussion when a majority outside the rapporteur's party has adopted something, but I think that in general we are standing in the Chamber of the People's Rule is a strange approach to politics and democracy. We must be able to know what the rapporteur's position is on the draft law. What is the rapporteur's party's position on the draft law? I am particularly surprised, because the rapporteur's party is not in, and even opposed to, the agreement which this bill is intended to finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131004	We are in the same situation as many other parties are also in and come in, which is that there is a bowl of weight with arguments that weigh to the disadvantage of the proposal and there is a bowl of weight with arguments that weigh. The arguments that lie in the balance bowl, which weighs up, are heavier than the arguments that lie in the balance bowl that weighs against, and therefore we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131030	Thank you. I would then like to hear the rapporteur's opinion if the parties here who are opposed make representations to the government. After all, these are the ones to be approached, who then have the parties to the agreement with them to extend the deadline for phasing in this bill, which is going to hit, I think, an incredibly large number of students in a very short space of time. After all, it is students who have paid, spent money of their own pockets qualifying for the advice they have received, precisely from the State educational advisor. I would say that is contrary to the general approach of the rapporteur's party to politics, and I would hope that the rapporteur would support the postponement of the deadline so that it does not affect people who, in fact, have pursued a line which they cannot now follow quite purposefully and at the request of the state and politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131126	I know Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen well enough to know that she is fair enough to recognise that this very week is a very strange parliamentary limbo, where it would be unwise of me to say a great deal about what will happen next week or next week again. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen would probably act in the same way as me in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131154	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131202	Thank you. When I was 18 years old and graduated from high school, I moved to Spain, because I didn't really know what to do, and I took some subjects at the university and some different courses down there. At one point a letter came in through the letter post, and it was from my mother, and it was such an application paper to the University of Denmark, because she thought that it was now time for me to have an education. I still didn't know what to do, but then I thought: I can speak Spanish, so I apply to the Spanish studio. I did, and I got shot. It was in Odense, and then I went there for a few years, and then I was lucky enough to get an exchange stay in Argentina. Then I came to Argentina, and in Argentina there was chaos at the time, so the subjects I should have followed, which were such classic humanistic subjects in linguistics, art history, etc., did not exist. Then I had to find out what to read. Then I chose some subjects that were in social sciences. I read some sociological subjects, I read some political science, some history, and then I found out, because I felt the commitment of Argentine students to their own social relations, that it was sociology that I wanted to read, because that was what I was burning for. Then I went back to Denmark, finished my Bachelor's degree in Spanish and applied to the sociology study at the University of Copenhagen. I came in and got my Master's degree from there about 7 years later. If I hadn't been to Argentina, if it hadn't happened to me, I would definitely not have been here today. It was as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said: if it were not for his dual education, he would probably not have been here today either. It's just to exemplify and I'm sure that there are a lot of us who have the same story to tell that when we make the crucial decisions about what we want with our working life, it comes at some point that we didn't foresee, and therefore there has to be room for us in our education system to be allowed to choose again. This is so fundamental, crucial for our society as a whole. We'll punish the students twice with this bill. A progress reform has already been introduced to speed up students; a bonus scheme has been introduced whereby you can multiply your grade average if you continue within 2 years; you can also get a 6. SU-year, if you hurry; and now you can also go directly from 9th grade to hf to get through the education system quickly. So we rush the students and at the same time come this bill that says: while we rush you, you shouldn't be allowed to choose if you choose wrong either. This is a fundamental break with the educational thinking that has characterized Denmark for a very, very long time. We are proud of our educational tradition because we allow people to choose about. We have always trained our young people to be critical and think about and try to be wrong, because you make a different choice by mistake, and next time you may just be a little less wrong. What makes our employers out there happy with Danish workers is that they are self-employed because they are critical because they have tried to go awkward ways in their lives and not the straight way. And this is a fundamental dispute with the educational tradition of which this bill is an expression. That makes me really, really worried about the whole of Denmark. We will also experience and I am surprised that it has not been taken into account that students are going to drop out of their bachelor's degree as a result of this bill, because when you have gone 21⁄2 years and would be in the same situation as I did back in the 1990s, and suddenly find out that you want to read something else, you don't go and finish your bachelor's degree, no, then you drop out, and then in the government's optics you have wasted that I don't think you have, because you've learned something 21⁄2 years. At least you will not get a diploma that you can then enter the labour market with. So in the alternative, we think this is a deep, deeply problematic bill. The Minister writes in the commented consultation note that it is in everyone's interest that the student chooses the right education for the first time. No, I fundamentally disagree with that. It is not in everyone's interest for the student to choose the right education for the first time; it is in everyone's interest for the student to be allowed to choose the education he or she is passionate about, the education he or she wants to go out and create a better world and change the world with in those areas where he or she is passionate about changing the world. That's what our education system needs to support, and it doesn't do that with this bill. As other rapporteurs have said, the introduction of the new rules with effect from the summer of 2017 is also very, very problematic. As several have mentioned, people have planned their education programmes, people have been given guidance on what they want from 2017, and now we are restricting it too. I would like to say briefly that it is clear that we in the alternative cannot support this at all, and I would really like to call on the parties to the agreement to go in and look at the criticisms that have been made and to assess whether perhaps a little change should be made in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131714	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124131727	This bill makes no sense at all. It's really, really backwards. For in the future we will need more people who will move across education and industries, not fewer, and in the future we will need people with more cross-cutting competences and insights, not fewer. This proposal is based on thinking from the past. Soccer, stay with your reading, nobody tells any young people anymore except those who want us back to the 1950s. Why? Because the future does not consist of people in the same jobs or the same groove throughout their lives, on the contrary. It really surprises me that the SOV parties support the fact that people can train from a professional bachelor to a Master's degree without paying, but must not train themselves in another and nearby profession without paying or perhaps even not being able to get to it at all. It's genius education snobbery, and it doesn't make any sense. Finally, and many have said so, it is quite unreasonable to introduce this law with such a short period of time. There are many people who have spent time, money and lots of human resources getting ready for admission to a new education. They have been guided to complete their exams and qualify for another education. They're totally failing SOV. So I would urge those parties to take a period of reflection from this bill, and consider whether it is really the past that you will go. Does it really have to be education and people's opportunities for the future, as a financing well for everything else? At least postpone the entry into force of this bill so that there are not so many people who have prepared, paid and organized for something quite different at our own request. I don't think we can be familiar with that. We are opposed to the bill in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132016	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132024	Today we are discussing a bill which means that young people can no longer take more education at the same level. It's quite interesting, I think, with such a platform here... how it can be used in completely different ways. On the one hand, you can use such a platform to make inspiring speeches and create hopes and dreams for the future; you can adopt proposals that make everyday life better for thousands of people, proposals that bring Denmark forward and equip us for the future. I can't believe that one has once decided that it should be free to take an education in I can't believe you once decided that there should be an SU so that everyone, wherever they came from, could take an education. Imagine having chosen to give transport discounts to students so that they could afford to go to school even if they came from afar. It was decisions that created hopes and dreams for the future. But on the other hand, the platform can also be used to turn off dreams, and that is what it is used for today. I know that because the bill has caused a real storm against my inbox from young people who are insecure, who feel that their dreams have been turned off and who are currently considering dropping out of the education they are going on so that they do not get caught up in this law that makes it impossible to take more education. And then you have to ask yourself, why do you use this platform for that? Why is this bill being passed? Does that bring Denmark forward? Does that make Denmark a better place? Does that make our education stronger? The argument for this is that dual education is a cost to society. That is what the bourgeois and Social Democrats say, and that is why it must now be completely limited. So in future, educators cannot become social workers. In Berlingske one could read that a nurse who wants to be a doctor cannot now become a doctor. I have received messages from people who would like to change track and for example. go from an academic education and then become a midwife. One of my best friends called me and was worried he's not interested in politics, but this has caught him because this decision will mean we're closing a trail for him, and he needs to change track. It's just stupid. And not only that, but I still believe that it is a showdown of free and equal access to education, something that we have been proud of for many years, something that social democracy has repeatedly said is important for Denmark, but with which we ourselves are now compromising. Then what do I believe? Why am I voting against this proposal? I believe that it benefits Denmark that young people become smarter. I believe that you are just taking an education to gain more insight and that it is therefore quite natural that people can take an education and then find out: it was not right here that I belonged to. In fact, I was fascinated by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who told us just now that he had taken more education and that he had used it not only to create a better life for himself, but also to create increased tax revenue for society. I believe that Denmark must live on education in the future, and I believe that people must be able to become smarter. Now you close off and not only that people can take a new education, but you also tell God help me to people who want to pay for a new education themselves: No, unfortunately you cannot; you may want to put the crowns in a full-time education yourself, but we cannot give you that. It is for the sake of society, says the Minister, and I know what that means. This means that this agreement is funded on the idea that some young people are going to be part of the labour market and part of the labour supply, and that is why it is for the sake of society that you cannot even pay to take second education yourself, because we need them on the labour market. When did the labour market and labour supply become more important than the individual? What kind of liberal government will govern people's lives in this way and cut them off from their dreams? I don't get it. And that's why I'm gonna be asking a lot of questions about this. Who gets hit? Who are the individual groups? What is the revenue? They say 30 percent. will be granted a derogation. It's 30 percent.? Will there be more? We will be tabling amendments to try to mitigate the damage caused by this. But unfortunately it is too late, because a majority has decided. This bill clearly signals that people should no longer be allowed to become wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132513	Thank you to the rapporteur. For formal reasons, I have to say that, although the President-in-Office does not really believe in higher powers, it is not allowed to summon higher powers from the platform. There you have to take care of yourself and not say God help me. It's just for another time. No, thank you, sir. Mark. The last rapporteur is Mrs Anders Johansson... No, I'm sorry, I... Sir.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132546	Thank you. The draft law is about limiting access to dual education in the Danish education system or, more specifically, limiting it, so that it will no longer be possible to take a new education at the same or lower level than the training already completed. This is a draft law to which the Conservative People's Party is in favour. It is important for us that we spend our common money effectively, and this also applies, of course, to the education system. It costs our society a great deal of money when 2200 people each year choose to take a new education at the same or lower level than the one they have already completed. Then, of course, there can be a great many good reasons why you want to take another education. In this context, I also think it is important to look at the fact that there are a number of possibilities for derogation in the legislative proposal, for example. For health reasons, or because the training which has been completed is obsolete. It is basically about the right balance, the balance between when the individual citizen has the right to choose freely on all shelves, and then on the other hand what demands we as a society can make on each other. The bill envisages allocating part of the proceeds back to strengthen the education system, which we think is sensible. In addition, it has been chosen to exclude those training courses where there is a particular shortage of labour, which of course also makes very good sense. So basically, this is about how we spend our money best and most efficiently, and with those words I would say that we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132728	It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132732	Thank you. I figured it wasn't at Conservatives that I was supposed to pick up the support to get this bill off the table. But I'm gonna try to find a way to save some of the kids who get pinched in this. For there are some of the young people who have written to me saying: well, let us at least pay for a full-time education ourselves. I mean, one thing is that they say that okay, the state should no longer pay for a double education. I personally think that's stupid, but then from a conservative rationale, where they have always talked about more user fees in education, why the Conservatives want to prevent you from paying for a training course yourself no. Two?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132811-2	As a starting point, I think it is wrong that one should be able to get ahead in line by paying oneself to get out in line. That is the starting point. But I know that a number of inquiries have been made. Of course, I have also received a number of inquiries. After all, we still need to get some answers on some of those enquiries, and I will of course look into that. When we get those answers, I will see if there is anything that we should try to adjust in further work. I would therefore appeal to you to take seriously the requests and answers that come the other way and then to try to see whether there is anything that needs to be adjusted further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132841	I will then compromise even more to find a way. What if we say that it is only in those courses where there are available places? Then you can't use the argument that you push somebody away. Then at least do it as Conservatives, i.e. introduce user payments on the available education. Then there is no argument for pushing someone away. Could you be interested in that just to try to find some more pragmatic way in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132905	I will still wait for the answers we are waiting for, from the Ministry, in relation to the requests we have received. I would very much like to enter into that discussion in the further work of the committee, but here and now I shall wait for the answers that may come to the representations that we have already received.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132919	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124132923	But it is at this point that if you are in the process of taking an education and you are wondering whether it is really the right thing for you, whether you are really good at it or really interested in it, you are currently being guided to finish your bachelor's degree, because at least you have to fall back on it. I think it is really good advice to complete the training and then have the opportunity to think and find out if it is the right thing. This is likely to mean that people who are in doubt will not complete the training they are doing, because then they will not be able to choose to change. This will probably cause many to drop out later, and it will make it more difficult for them to get back into the education system when they do not have paper on what they are facing. Is it not something that worries the rapporteur, in other words, that people who are almost in the process of taking an education will actually waste a lot of good energy in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133020	At the risk of repeating what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, I would say that if you are on an education and you are not sure that it is the right education, then it is better to stop immediately rather than wait until this bill is adopted. In other words, it must be the case that we are in an education to complete it because we believe that it is the right education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133040	Well, if you've taken 21⁄2 years of education and you're only missing 1⁄2 years, then I think there's some sense in the student counsellors saying: Finish it, find out what you want. Maybe you find out you want to keep going, and then you have it. In other words, does the rapporteur really believe that it is in the interests of all of us that more young people will interrupt their studies and drop out before they have, like, reached the end?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133105	I do not quite understand the question, because I guess it is about the fact that if you are in an education, it is on the basis that you have entered that education to complete it. The fact that you suddenly had to drop out because you're wondering if you're gonna end it, I can't really understand. If you are in the process of completing an education, you are doing so, in order that you may want to have that education. Otherwise, you waste all of our money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133127	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133129	I'm a little puzzled about that. I just need confirmation: the rapporteur's party is opposed to the agreement reached on daily allowances. However, the rapporteur's party is in favour of this agreement to finance the benefit agreement against which the rapporteur's party is opposed. I just want to hear the reasons why the rapporteur's party wants to find funding for the daily allowance agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133158	Well, basically, we think it is important that we spend our money most efficiently, and I think this proposal in isolation from education is sensible. I think it makes sense that we say to the students: you can get one education; you can train as much as you like; there is free and equal access. Then, of course, we need to have flexible arrangements so that if you need to change tracks later, you have to be able to do so. We think that part of the proposal is sensible, because it is a way of spending our common money more effectively in relation to the education system. And as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, some of this money goes back and strengthens the education system. There is, after all, part of the revenue that goes back and actually strengthens the education system. So we think that part is sensible too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133241	Then I would like to hear whether Conservatives, together with the other parties that have expressed a positive opinion on this today, will support the postponement of the deadline for implementing the bill, so that those who have saved from their own money and have prepared and have been guided both to complete their education and to upgrade themselves can actually use it for something. Will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133312	Actually, I think we'd like that. It has also affected me a great deal to get the inquiries made by the questioner, precisely those who have organised their lives for guidance, and I think that is something we should take very seriously. And although I may not be able to go in and do much about it myself, I would urge you to go in and take it very calmly, at least, because it affects some people who have been guided to do something that puts them in an unfortunate situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133339	Thank you very much, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no more rapporteurs, and so we are giving the floor to the Minister for Education and Research. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124133350	Thank you very much for a very good debate on the bill here. I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the political discussions that have led to the agreement on the limitation of dual education. In the debate here today, I believe that a number of myths or perhaps misunderstandings have been expressed, perhaps intended political misunderstandings about the proposal here, and let me just address two of the perhaps politically intended misunderstandings which some of the opponents of the proposal have brought into the debate here. One of these misunderstandings, as I heard several rapporteurs say, is that Mr. Jacob Mark, that if you were a teacher and really wanted to train yourself as a social worker, you can no longer do that. That is simply not correct. You can train yourself as a social worker if you wish, if you are a teacher, a teacher, a nurse, because the social worker training is offered as a part-time credit course. This possibility exists for a number of training courses, and the agreement here does not change that. So it is simply not true what several rapporteurs have said about this combination. Then there is another issue which has also been touched upon by several rapporteurs, and in which I also sense that it is perhaps a politically-intentional misunderstanding that is that we should no longer have the opportunity to take re-elections. That is also wrong. The opportunities available today to change studies along the way do not change with the agreement here. What does not change with the agreement here is that we naturally have free and equal access to education in Denmark. Free and equal access is, as has been pointed out by the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Christine Antorini, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, and now myself, is an absolutely crucial core principle for the Danish welfare society. However, responsibility for the higher education system also gives rise to responsibility for the proper use of the financial resources available. It turns out that many people are starting a new fully state-funded higher education, even though they have already completed higher education at the same or higher level. And many begin yet another higher education without actually having tried the first training properly on the labour market. This is a huge cost to the state and it is not a sensible way of using our tax dollars. The agreement on the limitation of dual education, which we are discussing here in the Danish Parliament today, means that we can instead spend the money on a safer benefit system and, at the same time, also strengthen the quality of higher education, because the agreement here also establishes a quality pool, which among other things. should be used to give the students increased feedback on the teachings... something I have listened to there is a great demand for. But there will of course be, as has also been the debate here, a number of people affected by the limitation of dual education; people who may have to change their plans for a future course of education. And just as I think Mrs Christine Antorini, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, described it very well, I would like to say that there are still a large number of opportunities in the higher education system. It is possible to train at a higher level to the same extent as in the past, and the possibilities for part-time and continuing training are not being changed by the bill here either. However, I would like to add that the parties to the agreement have agreed that it has actually been a wish of all of us that we would like to call jointly on the educational institutions to provide even more open education than what is the situation today. In order to make the system more flexible, as has also been suggested in the debate here, there will be an opportunity to seek exemption from the restriction of dual training. This applies to people who, for health reasons, are no longer able to apply their first training to the labour market. In addition, there will be the possibility of exempting training from restrictions on dual training in areas where there is a shortage of skilled labour. All in all, the draft law contributes to a more sensible use of the financial resources in the higher education system, and I think that is right and proper. I should like to take this opportunity to stress that I will be very concerned to monitor developments in this area closely. I would like to suggest that we can follow developments every year, to see how many exemptions have been granted in the three areas where there are exemptions and how many courses have been offered in open education. I would like to give an undertaking that we will follow this every year in order, of course, to monitor whether there is a need for exceptional initiatives of one nature or another. With these words, however, I would like to thank you for the debate and I look forward to the discussion of the proposal in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134005	There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first is from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134011	I would like to ask the Minister about those who fall out. As I read the bill, I believe that the financial calculations have not taken into account the expenses that will be incurred by students dropping out of their education before they reach a bachelor's degree because they think that they should drop out because they want to read something else. Is it correct to understand that the prospect of some falling out of their studies has not been taken into account in the calculations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134050	It is possible that the comments on the draft law do not make it quite explicit, but it is actually included in the large calculation that there will be some behaviour, possibly some behaviour towards what the rapporteur mentions here, in other words that some choose to interrupt a bachelor's degree in order to be able to start a bachelor's degree in another field of education. This has been taken into account in the calculations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134123	Can the Minister then reveal what that figure will be? What percentage of students are expected to drop out because they find out that they want to change their studies?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134142	Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to speak here, but I would very much like to go into this in greater detail during the committee procedure. I sense that this is not an issue which is so crucial to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier's position on the proposal, but I must, of course, make available the information that is needed in the legislative process. May I not just say quite basically that I fully agree with what other rapporteurs have said, namely that we must try to limit the drop-out and therefore also re-election as much as possible. That is why I am very pleased that today we have taken a new step towards ensuring that students or young people have as much information at their disposal as possible when making a study choice. That is why we have just launched a campaign in which we ask 250,000 students and 100,000 graduates to answer a number of questions with a view to using their knowledge of the content and organisation of specific programmes for young people to make a study choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134253	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134255	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech and for trying to clarify and explain. I think that's good. I guess I just don't agree. In fact, I think that this is an attack on free and equal access to education, including with regard to educators who want to be social workers or vice versa, because, as the Minister himself says, it will still require that part-time training, where there is partial funding, be taken away. And I just want to say that some people are stuck tight in it, and it's just not possible to change tracks. That is why we have always fought for free education. Then there are some who are completely forbidden the opportunity to take the education they dream of. And I would like to hear that, because I do not think the answer was so clear: will the Minister work to guarantee that the young people affected by this proposal can take part-time training and pay for their own training, or does the Minister recognise that there are simply some, for whom the race has just run? They'll never get the education they dream of.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134357	It is so that I want to respect and maintain that our educational institutions are self-serving institutions and that it is up to the institutions themselves to decide how they organise the provision of training they wish to have. That is why it is also the case that it is not my job as Minister to impose on the institutions the obligation to provide different training courses as open education. It is the responsibility of each institution to decide which courses they may wish to offer as open training. But I can tell Mr. Jacob Mark, the parties to the agreement agree that we would like to call on the educational institutions to offer more open education than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134449	Thank you. Then I just have to ask a question in a slightly different ball street. I've read the bill very carefully, but I may have missed it. There are some exemptions for students who are affected by this. There are, for example: a derogation for people in higher education who were completed a specified number of years ago. This means that if there are a number of years in which you have had an education, you may be allowed to take a new one, but it does not say how many years to go before these people can get a new education. Does the Minister have a figure of how long it will take to get a new education? I think that many will think that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134529	What has been the starting point for the discussions that we have had in the contract circle has been if we have what we called outdated education in this context, that is to say training that had not been used for a number of years. There we have started from a five-year period, that is, that the competences and qualifications acquired years ago are no longer up-to-date, are no longer relevant to the labour market and that there should then be a derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134600	Before moving on to the next brief remark, I would like to welcome the visitors of the Bureau today. We have guests from the German minority in Nordslesvig. They're here to hear you debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134616	The next brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134624	I am also very, very concerned about what this bill will have with consequences. I also think it is very clear that it will prevent people from taking a wide range of training courses that are now being taken. It is not the case that you can take all the courses part-time, and that is hardly the case in the coming years either. But I would actually like to ask the Minister about the economy in this proposal. After all, the government and the parties to the agreement are counting on getting a lot of money out of cutting people off from taking these educations. To what extent are the figures based, what should we say, the savings in people not taking an education and how much money has been brought in, on the basis that they say that some people are then not in education but are available for the labour market and the dynamic effects that then come from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134717	It is quite correct, as Mrs Flyvholm has outlined here, that parts of the proceeds have been generated by the fact that there are simply fewer in the education system. Another part has been achieved by increasing the supply of labour and how exactly the distribution is there, I would very much like to reply in writing. However, it is true that the proceeds themselves have been obtained through the elements pointed out by Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134751	Thank you. Again I would say that I think it is very regrettable to cut back on education. I think that this is going to have some negative consequences. But I would actually like to ask the Minister: is it correct to understand that this agreement on unemployment benefits was concluded and financed in this area and that relevant rapporteurs in the field of education and training had not actually been involved at that time? In other words, the agreement became the country before any of the relevant politicians in the field of education had been consulted. Is that correct? I think it bears a little emphasis on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134829	I do not think that Mrs Flyvholm is in any way concerned with working within the government and how agreements are concluded with parties. What matters to me here is that a really, really sensible agreement has been made, which means that we use the tax dollars as sensibly as possible. If there were, as in Enhedslisten's optics, unlimited funds available, it might well be worth considering not making these decisions. But now it is the case that the government is actually responsible and, unlike Mrs Flyvholm, we want to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as sensibly as possible. And in that light, the proposal is to be seen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134913	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134934	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124134956	Thank you. Now it is the case that we know that there are many gamblers in Denmark, that we play very merry here in Denmark, and so we do in Greenland. With the bill we now have, it is proposed to increase the amount that is transferred annually from the Danish Treasury here in Denmark to Greenland's Self-Government for games offered in Greenland. The increase is based on the fact that Greenland is playing more and more, and when the tax revenue is increased for the Danish state, it is of course reasonable that Greenland should also receive an increased subsidy. The amount is increased from 40 million. kr. to 43.25 million kr. annual, as has also been proposed by the Naala Suisut. Social democracy can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135050	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135101	Thank you for that, President. As the previous rapporteur well explained, it is, of course, a question of bringing the legislation into line, so that an amount is transferred which is better suited to the turnover at stake in Greenland, and we have no objection to that as a starting point. I understand that this is more of an estimate if it is now the right amount, but I assume that, as with so much else, the tax minister is also watching this. And it'll be evaluated in four years. When you can read in the comments that the supply is increasing and gambling is increasing in Greenland, I also hope that in Greenland you will take care of it and see that there may also be gambling, and when you know how much it costs the families who will be part of this, it is very, very important that it is put in place. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135210	Thank you, sir. Henrik Brodersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135217	Thank you very much. I am glad that with the bill here we increase the amount that the Danish state transfers annually for games offered in Greenland from 40 million. kr. EUR 44 million; kr. After all, on the basis of the statement made earlier this year by the Minister of Taxation and the Minister of Finance, in April, when they considered that the amount should increase in the light of the partial liberalisation of the gambling market and hence the profits of Danske Game, which was implemented in 2012. I am very pleased that it has been well received in Greenland and apparently also by all parties here in the Folketing. So I can say briefly that the Left supports the two ministers' assessment and supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135304	Thank you to the rapporteur. I note that there are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135328	Thank you. This is going faster than I expected. The Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal, and without having to delay, I would just like to say that it makes sense, of course, for Greenland to receive an amount estimated to be equivalent to that of the Danish state for gambling in Greenland, even after the partial liberalisation of the gambling market. So the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135355	Thank you for that, and also for the brief remarks that have been made, which is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135412	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here is L 84, draft law amending the law for Greenland on certain games. I shall begin by greeting our good comrade in the Enhedslisten. Good buddy in the Enhedslisten? However, we were both worried about this fragmentation of our society in relation to online gambling, but it's a debate that needs to be taken at a completely different time. So, of course, we support Greenland getting the share that belongs to Greenland, and we say yes to L 84.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135456	Although the President does not normally answer questions, I would like to say that he should not say that he is not. Good buddy, but you have to say, sir. Christian Juhl, for example. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135514	We share the concern expressed by IA in the response to the consultation on the development of gambling addiction in Greenland. So to intervene and not only to see this as an opportunity to get more money into the treasury, we fully share, but the concrete bill to transfer the money supports SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135541	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we move on to Rasmus Jarlov from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135552	We also support the bill. I regard it as purely technical and do not really have much to say about it other than what has already been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135605	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur I see is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135609	Thank you very much for the floor. The bill increases the amount transferred annually to Greenland's Self-Government, which means that 4 million will be transferred annually. kr. extra from 2017 onwards as a result of the partial liberalisation of the gambling market in Denmark. Greenland thus receives an estimated amount corresponding to the Danish state's income from gambling, among other things. also in Greenland. The bill increases Greenland's share from 40 million to 44 million. kr. annual. In 2021, the amount shall be evaluated. The comments to the bill describe that partial liberalisation applies to the gambling market in Denmark, but it probably applies to income from the whole Kingdom community since the Danish state's income from gambling in Greenland is covered. Inuit Ataqatigiit notes that a unanimous Financial and Tax Committee supports the bill, and a unanimous Inatsisartut has adopted the resolution. Although it is positive that additional funds are being allocated to the national fund, we should also look with concern at the increase in income from gambling. On the part of the IA, we believe that the extra funds should be used for special preventive measures, including for gambling. For gambling addiction should also be combated by preventive measures, and by earmarking the additional resources for preventive action, as well as for sports and cultural projects, the extra income for the Greenland national fund will serve a longer-term objective of promoting healthy interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135755	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135759	In the rapporteur's speech, I very much welcome the fact that gambling must be prevented. As I said myself, we know how devastating it is for families if this gets out of hand. Many times it's something that happens in secret. Does the rapporteur have any indication that this is something that is intended to be done in Greenland? How far has this progress been made? What's the status on that? Because there's guaranteed there's also cases of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135834	Thank you very much for the question. We have previously had a health and prevention board, Paarisa, in the Department of Health. They have among other things: A study has been carried out to identify how widespread the use of gambling and gambling is. In that study it turns out that about 2%. of those who are involved in the study themselves perceive their use of gambling as gambling addiction. So we can say that preventive action is needed, but perhaps it is not as great as one might fear. In this bill bingo is not included, but I really think that bingo, as we see in the settlements in particular, is something that we should make some pre-emptive efforts against, because it is especially children who suffer neglect because parents spend far too much time on bingo games. So I would say that it is just as much in other areas where I think an effort should be made, but also, of course, with regard to online gambling and other games.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124135946	I'd like to sign for the answer. That makes us a little smarter. It is true that it is a problem if family life is not taken care of not only financially and, as the rapporteur also says, if children are allowed to sit and watch a little television while parents are running to different games. But it is more the question of whether there is a focus on it. And you might have the trouble of setting aside some of these funds, for example, and saying that a certain percentage or percentage, or whatever it may be, should go to prevention. I'd like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140027	Thank you very much. This is precisely something that IA was very concerned about when the point was dealt with in Greenland, namely to ensure a preventive action against gambling addiction, so I can only sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140040	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140046	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just have one question. In Denmark, it is actually the one-armed thieves who create the most gambling people. I do not know whether the rapporteur knows what type of game creates the greatest dependence in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140104	Well, we also have one-armed thieves in Greenland, and there are also a lot of people who are bitten by that game too, you might say. But I would say that bingo is one of the areas where action should be taken. We have something that we call bingoaraq, which is bingo, which is going on in private homes and, as I said, it is especially in these settlements that it has a negative impact on children. And that is where I think action should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140133	No, I'm gonna drop out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140136	I do not suppose that gave rise to a comment. Then we thank the rapporteur and I see no other rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why it is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140145	Thank you for that, President. The aim of the draft law, as most rapporteurs have said, is to increase the amount transferred annually to Greenland's self-government for games which are thus offered in Greenland. With the present proposal, we will thus be able to adjust the amount in line with the statement that R 15 has previously been sent to the Danish Parliament. It's a small bill, and it's for once it's rare, it happens to me as the tax minister, not technically complicated. I do not really want to say much more than to say that Greenland's self-government has adopted the amendment, so I hope that we can also do so in this Chamber. When you look at the debate and the points made by the rapporteurs, it seems to be the case. And, of course, if there are any questions, we will answer them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140248	There is one question from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140255	Thank you very much. In relation to the revenue from this, they go to the Danish state. But I would like the Minister to confirm that it is actually revenue from the whole of the Kingdom community which then goes to the Danish state, and therefore some of the money is returned to Greenland. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140318	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140323	It is true that it is the design that has been chosen. And then you have to estimate the amount, so what is the share that is played for and that rightfully belongs to Greenland? This has been done, and that is what has led to the increase of the 4 million. kr., as I have explained. But yes, I can confirm that this is the way the system is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140346	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140351	Thank you. In relation to what Greenland has taken home, for example, it is acting. on slot machines, casinos and non-profit lotteries, and perhaps that is also where we need to find the biggest challenge right now. The other forms of gambling still fall under Danish legislation, and there I am actually interested in hearing how the Minister acts in relation to gambling and online casinos etc. with sparring etc. Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140429	It is the case that there is a gaming circle in which a wide range of parties are involved, but the alternative is not, and, in relation to the agreement underlying the conciliation circle, in spring 2017, we will have to look at the two gambling surveys that have come and, in view of them, possibly adjust the legislation that we have. Alongside this, discussions are currently taking place in the Ministry of Culture under the auspices of the Minister for Culture and I as Minister for Tax in relation to further liberalisation of horse sports and online bingo. Online bingo is played on a large scale.I understand this from the debate here in Greenland, but in particular in Denmark, and there are challenges with gambling addiction, and a liberalisation exercise will ensure that you can get online bingo under ROFUS and other gambling prevention measures. So it's at least a brief summary of some of the things we're looking at in general, which are also related to these kinds of games in Greenland to some extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140545	Thank you. That sounds exciting. In relation to the contract circle, which evaluates it in spring 2017, would the Minister be interested in getting the alternative into those considerations? The second thing I want to say is in relation to online bingo, and there I get worried right away. Is it a criterion on the part of the Ministry that it has to be under ROFUS in order for it to be allowed to be further liberalised?
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140615	Well, today it is the case that there are many who play online bingo, but they do so on some foreign websites where you have no opportunities to control the websites, and you get no revenue to the Treasury which you can pass on, either to the profit recipients or, for example, to the profit recipients. Greenland. If you liberalise it, you will have the opportunity to impose a gaming tax on them, and you will also have the opportunity to find out who is playing. And you can become part of the ROFUS register, those pages can become part of the ROFUS register. So it would be beneficial to reduce gambling. With regard to the conciliation circle, it is the case that parties can make representations to a conciliation group, and then it will typically be the case that the minister responsible will present the request to the conciliation circle, and then the conciliation circle will decide whether or not to take part. And if the alternative thinks about it, you can do it. It is not the same as being allowed to do so, but it is the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140704	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161124140710	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 25 November 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website
