ParlaMint-DK_20160519100014	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100028	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 68 by Nas Khader (KF), Trine Bramsen (S), Martin Henriksen (DF), Marcus Knuth (V) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 18 abstentions (EL, ALT and RV), 6 abstentions (SF, IA and T). The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 69 by Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), René Gade (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100144	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 63 by Jep Jakobsen (DF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Villum Christensen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 57 (DA, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF, IA and T), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 62 of Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Karin Gaardsted (S), Christian Juhl (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Johannes Lebech (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Aleqa Hammond (SIU) and Magni Arge (T) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100315	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 65 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Marcus Knuth (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 69 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), against 42 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 2 (IA and T). The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 64 by Mr Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF), draft resolution No. V 66 by Søren Søndergaard (EL), René Gade (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 67 by Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100432	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100455	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 2 (IA and T). The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100529	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100558	The draft law on maritime spatial planning implements the directive of the same name. The alternative wants to take responsibility for implementation and therefore votes in favour of the proposal. Having said that, however, we believe that the weighting in the proposal is biased: the preservation, protection and improvement of the environment lies at the bottom of the list of priorities for maritime planning rather than at the top, and that the law is under the Ministry of Business and Growth rather than under the Ministry of Environment and Food or the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate. In addition, the Minister is given the power to limit the time limits for consultation and the right to appeal, and I quote: "To lay down rules on the right to appeal against decisions taken, including the non-complaintability of decisions. It is also empowered to derogate from the six-month consultation period in non-defined cases. The alternative is that these elements distort the proposal and undermine democratic processes, but we are voting in favour of the proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100657	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100704	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 2 (IA and T). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100734	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100756	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for Industry and Growth, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100806	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100816	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 61 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 49 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 2 (IA and T). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100848	No amendments have been tabled. Is there anyone who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100905	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 2 (IA and T). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519100942	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101004	Thank you for that, President. In the Danish People's Party, we are very sorry that B 72 and the proposed amendment are not accepted either. We have just made this point in the light of the criticisms made at first reading, and this is particularly true in the whole area of leisure time and the fact that a large number of employees will be excluded from working with children. It opposes this amendment, and yet it does not have the support of the parties of the Folketing. All we have to say is that it's all about the safety of the children. It's about shielding children from paedophile abuse. It's something you can't do. You can do it with a blank child certificate, and for the Danish People's Party it is not enough with educational round table talk and mentoring arrangements. I would therefore like to appeal once again for the amendment to be supported so that we can ensure that our children are protected in the best possible way. For us in the Danish People's Party there are therefore no compromises in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101105	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101114	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (DF) as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101125	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal as a whole? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101140	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 23 (DF), against 88 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 2 (IA and T). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101208	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101227	Thank you. This bill deals, among other things. on the free choice of television distributors in different housing associations. At first reading, we were several parties, among others. Dansk Folkeparti, but also others who wanted housing associations with a so-called loop system also covered by this bill. There was no prospect of that in the first place. There were several of us who thought that many of these loop systems were about. 130,000 households with the technology as it is today could well be included in this proposal by sending that TV signal in a so-called coded television signal. Since then, we have had discussions with the Minister for Culture, and the Minister for Culture is now prepared to table an amendment, so that the loop facilities will also be covered by this bill, although only with effect from 1 January 2018. But all in all, we find it gratifying that these approx. 130,000 households will also be included in this bill, so that the housing associations that have loop facilities can also have a free choice of TV distributors. So the Danish People's Party would certainly like to sign up for the Minister of Culture's amendments in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101350	If the vote is not requested, I consider Amendment No. 1 and 2 outside the report adopted by the Minister for Culture. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101414	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101438	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, adopted by the committee, on Amendments Nos 1 to 9. 10, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance), or on Amendment No. 10, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance). 11 and 12 members of the Committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101525	I'd like a little more quiet, please. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101600	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519101639	Thank you for the floor. The two motions for resolutions which we are now considering are both about the accompanying arrangements in the Services Act, and it is therefore very good that it is possible to work together with them. The first motion for a resolution, B 86, proposes that before the end of this year the government should put forward legislative proposals to amend the accompanying arrangements for children and adults in sections 45 and 97 of the Services Act, so that the accompanying measures will also include social pedagogy assistance. Today, within the framework of the accompanying arrangements provided for in paragraphs 45 and 97, practical assistance can only be provided in connection with the accompanying document, i.e.: the kind of help that many in daily speech call the living cane. The second motion for a resolution, B 174, is also about the accompanying arrangements in paragraphs 45 and 97 of the Services Act, and here it is proposed that the government should submit legislative proposals by the end of 2016 to enable up to 180 accompanying hours to be saved together over a period of 1 year. Today the limit is that you can do it with the 90 hours within 6 months. I must say at the outset in my speech that, although we on the part of the government see the two motions for resolutions as quite sympathetic, we cannot support them on the basis that they are now and here. In fact, in the government, we believe that the overall purpose of the services legislation's accompanying arrangements is to help ensure the inclusion in society of citizens who cannot move alone. We also believe that the accompanying arrangements should be as flexible as is now possible so that citizens with reduced functional capacity can, as far as possible, meet their accompanying needs. As I see it, it is sensible enough to look at the existing accompanying arrangements and see if there are elements in the arrangements that can be made more flexible with advantage. And this applies, among other things. also, in relation to what the accompanying arrangement can be used for, and how many hours you can be allowed to save. I am, of course, concerned, like the Enhedslisten's proposers, with trying to improve the rules on escorts. But how soon can this be done? In fact, I believe that we need to look at the area a little more closely here before we say that by the end of the year we are moving towards possible legislative changes. And that is why I appeal to us to have a closer examination, because when you have such a study in hand, you have everything else just a little safer foundation when you have to assess the pros and cons of various proposals for amendments. And in this way we will also get a clear picture of what I also think is a prerequisite for what financial consequences such proposals will have here. In this context, I would like to say that at least, as I see these motions for resolutions here, there will be expenses associated with them, especially with what is called B 86, which is about extending the target group for the accompanying scheme provided for in Article 97 of the Services Act to include citizens with a reduced level of development, etc. That is why I cannot support the fact that we are moving towards legislative changes here and now and saying that this must be done by the end of this year, as the two motions for resolutions propose. However, as I also said, I also see sympathetic things in both resolutions, and that is why I think we need to dig a little deeper into this and have a slightly stronger foundation to stand on before we take a position on them. I would like to be sure that there is nothing we are missing until we decide on a possible change in the savings rules in the accompanying arrangements, as proposed in B 174. In fact, I also think it is important for us to look at the various accompanying options together and not to start screwing up a few elements of the individual schemes in such a way that they are split up. I also think there is a need for a closer examination of what is being proposed in motion for a resolution B 86, both in relation to the possible costs associated with such a proposal, but also the more substantive changes that this proposal will entail. Because with the proposal, we are putting everything else equal to some of the social pedagogic companionship, which will inevitably be discussed, in relation to citizens with a disability in development, and putting it into section 97 of the Service Act, which currently only includes the type of companionship that I referred to earlier as the living stick. On the other hand, I would actually like to commit myself here to including the consideration of these two motions for resolutions in the working group which could potentially be set up if the next motion for a resolution we are to discuss is adopted. And I can already tell you that, when I am going to refer to that resolution later, in other words B 190, I will support it because I believe that there is a real need to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102215	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound, Enhedslisten, go ahead. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102221	I would like to ask the Minister what has actually happened since it is the Minister's opinion that further studies are needed, given that in his proposal to Finance Act 2015 the Left itself proposed on page 14: therefore, the Left proposes that anyone with disabilities who cannot travel on their own should be entitled to 15 hours' escort per person. month outside their accommodation/offer. What has happened since the Left made its proposal to the Finance Act, which means that there is now a need to investigate the matter further?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102303	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102304	After all, what happened after our Finance Bill of 2-3 years ago was that we were just actively entering into the pool negotiations and getting a framework for exactly extending the accompanying regime. And in this respect, it is just important to say that we are also fully aware that we must have assessed the economic consequences more closely. There were very divergent assessments of what it would cost to make this fixed 15-hour right, and that is the part that we have also committed ourselves to becoming wiser and therefore that I also indicate that we actually want to dig a little deeper into this so that we do not just take out the individual elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102348	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102351	I am delighted that the Minister has indicated that there is a problem. I would therefore just like to ask the Minister to confirm that it seems extremely unreasonable that there is a possibility for a very large number of citizens with disabilities to have 15 hours' escort, but precisely those citizens who must be regarded as the very weakest, because they themselves are not in a position to ask for escorts, which could be said to have a very special need, are exempt from the general provision on escorts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102430	Basically, I agree with the discussion on how to ensure the support of people in need, but we still have to have an economic assessment in this too. And I am surprised when the proposals are put forward that there is actually no discussion about where we find the funding to expand or amend or adjust, because if everything else were to be taken exactly as it was, it would be connected, I think, and so far it is only my own assessment, and one has to dig deeper into it with quite substantial increases in expenditure, and that is the discussion that we all have to have with an economically responsible approach if we want to change which groups have accompanying, what type of escort and how much and how much flexibility we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102525	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102540	Thank you. It can be said that the three motions for resolutions we are going to deal with here first on the agenda have a subject of variation over the unhappy practices that have developed for those people with disabilities who need a back-up scheme in relation to the housing offer, which is often their only activity in everyday life. On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to support the preparation of a report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Internal Affairs, which aims to change the current practice. We welcome the statement made by the Minister on the platform to help change current practice so that we can resolve the problems properly and respectfully in relation to the user groups currently caught up in the practice that has developed. It is not right for us to deprive a group of citizens of the opportunity to go outside their homes simply because they need to be accompanied or accompanied by particularly insightful staff who know the individual citizen. It is not respectful to exclude these citizens from being able to draw on the staff who know the background and special conditions of the citizens, because they do not want to let the housing workers participate in a back-up scheme. It is no use denying that this group of citizens has suffered a marked deterioration in their conditions as a result of the relocations that took place in the context of the 2006 municipal reform, the subsequent interpretations of their rules, as established by the Ankestyrelsen and the municipalities, following one of the interest organisations had problematized the new practice. So we look with positive glasses at helping to change the state of things. We recognise that there is an economy, but we also recognise that in the past there was a practice in which the specific needs of this group of citizens could be met. So we would very much like to contribute positively to the creation of a better practice than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519102808	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. These resolutions are about improved savings rules. B 174 is about the government submitting a bill on improved savings rules in the context of the accompanying scheme in the provisions of the Services Act under Section 45 and Section 97 on child and adult accompanying schemes, so that it will be possible to save up to 180 hours together with a view to a comprehensive application to allow citizens to take advantage of accompanying arrangements for longer consecutive periods. Today, as the Minister also said, the Service Act provides for the possibility of saving hours over a six-month period. With this proposal, it will then be possible to save up to 12 months. Motion for a resolution B 86 is about requiring the government to make proposals by the end of 2016 to amend Article 45 of the Services Act and Article 97 of the Services Act on accompanying arrangements, so that the accompanying document also includes social pedagogical assistance. Similar proposals from the Enhedslisten have also been made in the past. Among other things: during the previous government, it had been mentioned several times during the course of the proceedings that the funding was not in place. There was also concern among some parties that this would undermine the existing accompanying scheme. In 2012, the rates pool parties extended the support scheme for young people between 16 and 18 years of age who, due to significant and lasting reduced physical or mental capacity, cannot travel alone to children and young people between 12 and 15 years of age. We did so precisely with the aim of giving young people within the target group an opportunity to participate in self-chosen activities outside the home, without always having to ask their parents for help, thereby also providing increased opportunities to live a youth life on an equal footing with other children and young people. The proposal we adopted was intended to contribute to the inclusion in the society of children and young people with disabilities and to help this group of young people become more independent and independent of the help of their parents. No matter who you are, you need to live a life of recreation and change, and some need it more than others. But it must never be one's ability to function that imposes the greatest limitations. Of course, there is no doubt that people who, for one reason or another, live with a significant disability may have other and more limitations than those who do not. That is why it is important for society to make an effort to help these people to have a good and meaningful life. In the Danish People's Party, we are interested in finding solutions to the whole of the accompanying problem, which is why we have also tabled a motion for a resolution on clearer rules and new proposals for an accompanying arrangement. Since we do not believe that the current accompanying regime is working satisfactorily, we propose that a working group be set up so that we can hopefully once and for all resolve the challenges and also look at the economic consequences together. We therefore believe that it would be a very good idea for the working group to assess the proposals from the Enhedslisten, including whether it is possible to save hours for a year, and also to see whether the accompanying scheme can include social pedagogy assistance. In the Danish People's Party, we believe it is important that the working group take several of the challenges posed by the accompanying scheme into account in the work of the working group, so that we can jointly find some good solutions for the whole accompanying problem. In the Danish People's Party we look forward to the work of the committee and hope that we in the committee can also agree that solutions should be found in the field of accompanying documents. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103203	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103210	I welcome the positive comments on the proposal, but I am somewhat surprised that the Danish People's Party cannot immediately support the proposal as it stands. As you know, this is not a legislative proposal, it is a motion for a resolution, which is why I think: was it not by voting in favour of this proposal and having a legislative process set in motion so a good opportunity to clarify precisely what the Danish People's Party is suggesting? And does the rapporteur not find it regrettable that, with a postponement of a position, it is likely that a further year will come when a large number of citizens will not be able to take a holiday and come on the basis of their accommodation offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103259	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103301	Thank you. I think there is a need for us to get together once and for all and solve the whole problem and not just a partial element. I fully recognise that there are challenges. The Enhedslisten could not, under the last government, adopt the proposal that they had on this particular issue, so I had actually hoped that Enhedslisten would have taken this to heart as well and thought that it was a very good idea that we should have seen together to set up a working group to assess things. But I also think it is important that the working group should include people who have experience in this area and, of course, also involve some from disability organisations. One might also involve the disability-policy think tank, which we have at some point reduced in the pool of rates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103349	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj for another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103352	As I said, I am pleased that there is a positive view that we should now have looked at the problem. I just think it's so obvious that there's a problem, an injustice. It is so obvious that there is a very specific group of disabled citizens who are particularly disadvantaged there per year. definition is excluded from the right to accompany. I thought that this might be an excellent principle to adopt as a starting point for further work. But otherwise I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that it is strange that, despite several questions to the Minister in this matter, I have not been able to find out what the cost of such a proposal really is? It is difficult, after all, if you are not able to get the Minister for Social Affairs or the Minister for Finance to give a concrete estimate of what the cost is actually. Isn't it strange that you can't find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103449	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103451	I always find it frustrating as rapporteur if, when you ask questions to the ministers, you do not get an answer that you can use. That is why it is important to be persistent and to ask the ministers a few more questions so that they can get an answer. But at least I think that if the B 190, which the Danish People's Party is putting forward today, is adopted, then at least that work in relation to the economic consequences must include how much money we may have to set aside. The most important thing is that we find a solution together, because no solution was found under the previous government either. Unfortunately, this is not a new issue, and we just have to recognise that, with the money from which we were set aside, we have not dealt with the whole of the accompanying problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103553	The Left also thinks that the two motions for resolutions B 86 and B 174 from the Enhedslisten are sympathetic. But we cannot support them for the simple reason that we think there are elements in what needs clarification and a cover-up. But we can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, in other words B 190. I recognise that it can be frustrating, in relation to the legislative preparation, not to be able to get answers to any questions about the consequences of this. It is not necessarily an indication that the answer will not be given and that the ministers want to cause frustration. I think that was the expression that was used. It may just as well be an indication that it is difficult, and that is precisely why I think it is so good that the Minister has indicated that the intentions of the two motions for resolutions we are now considering will be involved in the work of the committee which I hope and believe we can all support and which lies in motion for a resolution. B 190. In other words, that we are not taking this simply, but as a whole, in order to identify positive and negative elements, and what meaning is it, for example. If, on the basis of an injustice or an illogical element of the Service Act, you correct something, but also in relation to it, then some other problems may arise. We must have an overall view once and for all, and it is against this background that the Left cannot support B 86 and B 174, but in the subsequent debate will support B 190.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103802	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103809	Once again, I would like to welcome the positive comments that have been made about seeking a solution to this. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not agree with me that the solution to be found must necessarily mean that, when we have made a change to the law, there can be no citizens with developmental impairments or brain damage who can find themselves in a situation where they are unable to take a holiday outside the accommodation offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103841	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103843	That must be a clear objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103846	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103849	I would say that I am delighted because I think it is a pity that we can see today that a large number of municipalities have not set aside a penny for this purpose. However, I do not have any further questions. I welcome the commitment that we should resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103905	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Can I say something to the end?). Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103911	The objective is then that we take all the elements into account in relation to demarcation, economics and other things. But we have a common objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103920	Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519103929	Thank you. With motion for a resolution B 86, Enhedslisten wishes to require the government to amend Articles 45 and 97 of the Services Act on accompanying arrangements, so that the accompanying document also includes social pedagogical assistance for the disabled, i.e. that people who are cognitively disabled are also entitled to these 15 hours of extra-home companionship, in line with people who have physical impairments. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, we are also concerned that the weakest citizens will receive the help and support they need. However, we are a little concerned about introducing another civil right, another legal requirement which will increase public expenditure without knowing what the extent of it is. That is why I also share the frustration of the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten that we do not yet know the economy of this, and I also hope that we will know it. It is, of course, the case that aid for the individual disabled must now be organized on the basis of a concrete assessment of needs and conditions. As stated in the Services Act, the aim of the effort must be to improve the social and personal functioning of the individual and the development opportunities available and to improve the opportunities for the individual's life-expression through contact, opportunities for association, activity, treatment, care and care. We fully share Enhedslisten's view that it should, of course, be fair to be able to do so outside a settlement, and that is why we also think that we need to look at the municipalities. After all, the municipalities have a great responsibility not to give priority to this because, of course, they should do so, and that is actually why we cannot fully support what is now before us. Firstly, we want a clarification of the economy, and secondly, we want the municipalities to take the responsibility that they have and to give priority to what they really should be. However, with regard to B 174, which we are now working together on, and which concerns the possibility of saving several hours in relation to the accompanying scheme, we also agree with those considerations. We also find it extremely unfair that we cannot save, and we have done so in the past. We also think that there is too much bureaucracy in terms of both allocation, administration and payment, so we fully agree that this arrangement should be made more flexible. It makes sense that you can save up. So we think, as did the previous rapporteurs and the Minister, that a complete review of the accompanying system is a very good idea. We would like to look at how to make it more flexible and how to make it more flexible and more accessible and, of course, ensure that people with disabilities, whether physically or mentally, have the same opportunities. That is why we also intend to support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which we shall be dealing with here afterwards, so that we can have a system which is fair and which also supports the two concrete initiatives presented here by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104252	Thank you. There are no comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104321	In the alternative, we do not think it is reasonable that certain people with disabilities should not be able to take holidays or participate in leisure activities and cultural opportunities. Nor is it reasonable for the municipalities to have been demanding illegal user charges in this area for years, and it has also been stated, as you know, that this is illegal. That is why, in the alternative, I say that all three motions for resolutions are sympathetic and we think it is important that we examine the whole area more closely. I am pleased that in his speech the Minister said something about what I am saying now, namely that efforts must be made to make this more flexible, that the Minister is interested in looking at the area more closely and that the accompanying options must be looked at together. In the alternative, we are therefore in favour of setting up a working group and we would very much like to look at regulatory simplification in this area, as we believe that very large resources are being spent in municipalities on over-control of the area, for example. in connection with the search. We therefore propose, like Thorkild Olesen of Danske Handicap organisations, that there should be some kind of standardisation. We believe that we should see a little more overall in this area and more overall, so that we might also include additional costs and other things in this area, so that we can also look at precisely the rules of visitation and, in general, simplify this area. So we are positive about the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104503	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104512	On the part of the Radical Left, we can say nothing more than that both proposals are very sympathetic. Who does not want to support our disabled fellow citizens? When you look at the one motion for a resolution, namely the amendment of the savings rules, it seems that it is expenditure-neutral. If it lasts, we can immediately go in and support the expenditure-neutral part. I see that as a kind of technical change. We also find the immediate proposal to extend the possibility of accompanying the people with disabilities very sensible, but we must look at how much it costs. Unfortunately, that is the case with all good intentions. We often have to turn to economics. We don't have the means to do everything. We cannot therefore vote immediately in favour of the second motion for a resolution, but will be willing to take part in the committee's deliberations on this issue. I also take note of the Minister's openness to the whole problem and the possibility of setting up a working group, and we will of course welcome that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104619	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104634	The two proposals we are now considering are about freedom and the right to participate. According to the disability convention, we must ensure that people with disabilities have the opportunity for a life where they are included in society and not isolated and that they have codecision. It is an important principle that support is given on the basis of a concrete individual assessment, because people's needs and lives are different. Basically, one can be compensated for one's disability and given equal opportunities to live an active life and to develop. It may seem incomprehensible that we have a law in which people with development impairment or brain damage do not have the same opportunities for accompanying them, because their needs are of a social educational nature as if their disability were of a physical nature. And it is quite unreasonable to be left to oneself or to a life where one cannot participate in activities and communities outside the framework of an institution because of a lack of companionship. It is about inclusion and democratic freedom. That is why we welcome in the SF motion for a resolution the extension of the accompanying regime to this group. There is a need to simplify the legislation, as several have already mentioned, and thus also to bring together some of the paragraphs that are about personal assistance and support, also across sectors. It is, of course, a question of economics to extend the system to social educational support, and the economic challenge has not been resolved. I hope that this can be done in committee. However, I would like to state at any rate that we in the SF believe it is quite reasonable that people who need accompanying services, which include social education, should be made equal to other needs for accompanying services. And it makes good sense to create greater flexibility and freedom in saving the escorts. You could also imagine a sort of rock map scheme. The most important thing is for people with disabilities to have a say in their own lives. So thank you to Enhedslisten for making the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104845	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519104856	Thank you for that and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. We are dealing with B 174 and B 86, which is about changing the accompanying scheme for children and adults with disabilities. Proposers are proposing to change the rules so that they become more flexible so that the disabled person is given greater freedom to use the paid hours so that it is better suited to the needs and wishes of the individual. And that is a principle with which the Conservatives very much agree. At the same time, as the authors of the motion point out, it is a problem that the disabled and the brain-damaged do not have the opportunity to make use of the system as it is. The Conservative People's Party is in favour of the ideas contained in the motions for resolutions. We agree that the group of people entitled to the accompanying scheme should be extended to include those who are disabled and injured in development, and others who are in need of social pedagogy assistance and thus a separate qualified companion who knows the person. The important thing must be the need, not the diagnosis. If there is a need, it should also be possible to use the accompanying scheme. We agree in principle that the system must be made better and more flexible by, for example, the citizen. can save more hours than the current 90. We are therefore also prepared to support the setting up by the Minister of a working group to examine the possibility of incorporating the elements of the motions for resolutions into a review of the current legislation. And with this in mind, we shall abstain from voting in favour of the motions for resolutions as they stand, thereby making an independent amendment to the law, but instead ask the Minister to include the considerations in a general study of the accompanying system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105041	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105050	First of all, I would like to thank you for the many positive comments. I hope that the positive comments on the intention will also be reflected in the further discussion. It must be the case that it is a right for all citizens with disabilities that they have the opportunity sometimes to come out and experience something that is going on outside their own home. The needs may be very different; there may be a desire to go out in the woods, in nature; there may be a desire to go in the city; there may be football interested people who will experience the mood of the lathes and not just on television; or there may be cultural interests who would like to use some of the many cultural offers there are. There is a very strongly expressed desire among many citizens with a lack of development to have the opportunity to be accompanied so that you can take a holiday like all other people here in our society. For many people with disabilities, it requires that you have a companion with, and it has to be said that this is simply a peculiarity of the way in which our legislation today is put together, that citizens, for whom one might think they have the greatest difficulties, who have a developmental disability which makes them unable to formulate exactly what they really want to use the accompanying document, that is to say, those citizens who may have the greatest difficulty in handling their everyday lives, have been excluded from the right which, moreover, is very much the case for disabled citizens. I would say that this is not just a thoughtful or abstract problem which we have sought with light and light, and I also hear recognition from the other rapporteurs, but it is very concrete and very clearly documented. And this has even been documented by the municipalities themselves through the study carried out by KL a few years ago, which showed that no less than one out of every eight of the municipalities in the country had not set aside a penny, neither for developmental citizens to go on holiday, nor for them to go on a trip of one kind or another outside their homes. In one eighth of all municipalities there was not a crown set aside I think it is completely incomprehensible and obscene. It can therefore be said that the problem has been known for a very long time, and it has also been known in the way that the Minister has had to intervene in the end, in cooperation with KL-Joineds who illegally tried to solve this problem by charging users to citizens in breach of the law. So the proposal here, as has also emerged from the debate, is, in all simplicity, that we must ensure that it becomes a right for these citizens, that it is not open to discussion whether a citizen with a disability in development who is not in a position to formulate his or her needs precisely, will be covered by the provisions. The Enhedslisten made a similar proposal in the previous session. It was never completed, but I note that my predecessor, as rapporteur in this area, met with views that it would indeed be far too costly to implement this proposal, but that it was rather unclear what the cost could be. That is why I have also mentioned in the debate and wondered why in their draft Finance Act for 2015 the Left made a similar proposal, just like what Enhedslisten has put forward, and that we must then experience that it is difficult in a process leading up to the examination of this proposal to get a concrete estimate of what the cost really is. I do not claim that it is necessarily easy, but it is the case that we see in all possible legislation in this Chamber that there is ultimately an opportunity to give an estimate so that it will actually be possible to legislate in this area. At any rate, it cannot be the case that it affects people with development impairments and sufferers who are not able to calculate the cost in the Ministry of Finance. In any case, this must not mean that they will be cut off from vacation until the calculation boys in the Ministry of Finance find at some point a model capable of calculating the cost. We simply cannot be familiar with this. However, I welcome the positive comments. I think there may be problems in the bid placed on a working group. I will come back to that during the discussion of the next proposal. But so far I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you for the commitments. I hope that means that we can resolve this problem, which is very urgent and which has really been in demand for a very, very long time from people with disabilities. I hope that this will be achieved together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105555	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105559	Now, of course, we should not try to talk ourselves out, but since the rapporteur has once or twice referred to a Left Finance Bill, I would just like to say in silence to ensure that we agree that both the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten and the rapporteurs of all other parties agree with, I hope that the best thing we can do to avoid individual cases that fall off, as has rightly been pointed out, is that we are seeing things in a whole, including the economy, but also looking at what border cases arise when we are tampering with a legislative body. That is why I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is very good that we should also have a delineating and economic assessment of this area and now leave the draft budget of the past, because I am asking about what is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105657	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105659	I agree, of course, that in what we are adopting here in the Folketing there must of course be an overview of what the costs are. And it is also the case with the proposals that we put forward in the Enhedslisten that we fully agree that funding should not be left in the blue. Of course, you have to be able to point out where the money is to be collected. Of course, one must always be careful not to look back for the sins of the past, but it is only an expression of an annoyance that there are less developed citizens who are not on holiday this year and who did not come on holiday last year because there has been a slowness in this matter. So it should be taken as an indication that I think it is an injustice to the citizens that it has been dragged so far. However, I agree that it is always good to clarify the economic consequences of proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105747	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Holst again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105751	I share that regret, but let us now be pleased that, with the subsequent adoption, I hope, of the motion for a resolution B 190, we are now getting to work on it. And then we can all wonder why it hasn't happened before. But you have to be careful about that. Let's look ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105812	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105813	Well, let us welcome this together, and let us hope that there are many citizens who are suffering from development who, together with us, will be able to enjoy the hope that we will find a solution to this problem, so that in future we will be able to get out of our habitat, whether on holiday or on an outing in nature, or whatever the individual citizen needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105835	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105841	It is true that Enhedslisten has presented this earlier as a component, and I think that Enhedslisten has then read the record from the processing of it. And it was precisely under the previous government that the radical Minister for Social Affairs and also the Socialists did not want to extend this system. Is it not the case today that the Enhedslisten rapporteur still thinks that now there is a government that would like to set up a working group and find solutions in this area? Isn't that kind of a victory after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105916	I would say that in such cases we are color-blind in the Enhedslisten, and we welcome it when there are commitments from parties to support a sensible cause and solve a huge problem for many citizens with development inhibition. We do not know whether the support comes from the right or left of the Chamber, but we welcome it if there is a majority in favour of such a proposal, regardless of who votes. So yes, I think it is very good that we are going a step further, and I also see it as a victory, not in isolation for the Enhedslisten, but above all for the citizens whom we want to benefit from the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105955	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519105957	Of course, it is the citizens that are at stake. That is why I think it is gratifying that we have today a majority, at least behind the B 190, which can now move something forward. For the alternative would be that Enhedslisten might again have voted down their proposal. Now it lapsed and was not put to the vote, but I have read all the rapporteur's speeches and can conclude from that that there has certainly not been a majority in favour of the previous motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110025	Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110027	Well, I'm delighted about that, too. But, as you know, if you have to mention what is the opposite of heaven, there is a saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. So as we have seen that it may be difficult to move from good intentions to concrete decisions, I am worried that the matter is now actually being kicked a little to the corner. It seems to me that we could easily have adopted the principle of having the right to accompany us and that we could then discuss the costs and details that might be involved in a legislative work following the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution. I do not think that would have been an obstacle. But again I would like to say that I welcome the fact that we seem to be achieving a solution to this major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110126	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110148	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110157	Thank you for the floor. It feels a little like we've already started the debate on this resolution. Because, as I said earlier, this is a motion for a resolution which is also about accompanying the Service Act. It is therefore very good that all three motions for resolutions are being dealt with today and in continuation of each other. The proposal here is, in my view at least, about clear rules and new proposals for the accompanying scheme in general terms. It is therefore proposed that the government should set up as soon as possible a working group to prepare proposals for solutions to the challenges facing it with the provision of accompanying documents through the Services Act. As the previous reading has already shown, i.e. when we first dealt with B 86 and B 174, I have already indicated that we in the government support this motion for a resolution. What we basically believe is that the overall purpose of the accompanying scheme should be and how it should be arranged, I have also mentioned. That is why I also mentioned in my previous speech that I think it is necessary to examine this field in greater detail. We need to have a solid foundation to stand on. For what are the elements of the present accompanying system? What are some of the issues that are actually highlighted by some parties? And what are the options? The Enhedslisten's rapporteur talks about the need for rights to be introduced in a broad sense, and it sounds fascinating to say that we are now introducing a lot of rights. But with rights comes obligations, among other things. payment obligations as well. That is why I stand as responsible minister and say that I cannot just agree with that, despite the fact that it may sound reasonable and all. In fact, I would like to point out the question of the purchase of extra escorts. Is that something that can also be discussed here? For what is the demand for this to be able to ask for escorts? It's an element of it. Another element is the discussion on the purchase of extra escorts. One example of this is, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned in the previous reading, the citizen of a residence offer who would like to pay for one of the estate's educators to go to a concert in Telia Parken with the citizen's favourite band. As § 85 is designed today, this is the possibility of purchase, i.e. to be allowed to do something extra that is not at all. It has been confirmed that such was practice, but practice was not actually possible within the legislation, and that is why so many today feel affected. At least that's my conviction. Many feel affected in relation to the flexibility that existed in the past but which did not actually have legal legal basis. Another example is a citizen with brain damage who cannot ask for escorts himself, but who has an accompanying need in connection with e.g. a tour of the cinema or a picnic. And here section 97 cannot be used, because in the paragraph it is a requirement that one should be able to demand companionship. I think it is quite reasonable for us to question this. That does not seem appropriate in some way. These are the points which are also set out in the comments on all of this motion for a resolution B 190, and these are the points which I agree we should look into. When we dealt with B 86 and B 174 here just now, I explained why I think we should have this study of the area before we proceed to implement any legislative changes, as the previous motions for resolutions were just asking us to do. So, of course, I will not repeat that argument here, but simply say that I agree with the resolution here that we will have a working group set up. That working group is to be used to give us a better basis and to create the overall overview of the shortcomings of the services legislation today, which has been pointed out before we have to make a political choice and a decision on how to make the rules perhaps more flexible, but above all clear to understand for the benefit of the people involved, but certainly also for the benefit of the municipalities involved in the proceedings. The work of the working group, as I see it, can be considered in the ongoing work on the reform of the adult provisions of the Services Act, should it prove that it could be relevant and make sense in relation to that process. I would also like to say, as I said before, that with regard to the two previous resolutions, I would like to commit myself to the fact that the considerations contained in the two motions for resolutions are, of course, taken into account in the work of the working group. So, as I have said, support for B 190, and if this motion for a resolution should prove to be adopted, I imagine that the Committee on Social Affairs and Home Affairs, as proposed by the authors of the motion for a resolution, will receive the terms of reference of the working group for approval and that the committee will, of course, receive the results of the work of the working group by 1 February, as the motion for a resolution says.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110729	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Orla Hav, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519110737	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party is happy to support the preparation of a report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Internal Affairs with the aim of changing current practice. We also expect and have heard the Minister today express his support for a serious initiative to resolve the problems properly and respectfully, and I welcome the Minister's positive intervention. The motion for a resolution now tabled here by the Danish People's Party is based on a premise that the need for new rules on the accompanying system is due to a lack of clarity about the rules. I believe that paragraph is wrong. Unfortunately, the rules are clear enough: when it comes to people with disabilities wanting to pay to be accompanied, if they want to be accompanied beyond what they can get through the Service Act, the rules are such that you cannot. The Minister has just explained this. People with disabilities who are accompanied by Section 97 of the Services Act may choose to use the scheme for social education activities if they wish, but may not pay for it themselves. So the problem is not that the rules are unclear. The problem is that the Danish People's Party does not like the rules. And I think that is all honour and respect worthwhile, but I cannot help but be a little backward-looking and say that if the Danish People's Party had had the same taste and consistency in its views in 2005, these rules would never have been translated into the form of the municipal reform. Because that's what allowed us to dismantle all the rules that were for the benefit of these groups of citizens. Of course, I shall not spend a long time on the sins of the past, but just be allowed to quote that there is greater joy in heaven over a single sinner who repents than over 99 who do not need conversion. However, the Socialists support the drawing up of a report on the grounds that the Minister has now expressed here, so that we can resolve this problem for a number of citizens. And then we should remember that in this group, for example, there are citizens who have been granted a great deal of compensation after, for example. to have been subject to a road accident. It is unfortunate that the citizens cannot be allowed to spend a little of that money to sweeten their own lives, and it is unreasonable that the rules have become so rigid. We are very happy to help to soften that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111023	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111027	Thank you. I have to say, I am surprised at the rapporteur's speech. Because we know precisely that there have been these challenges with the accompanying scheme, where user charges have been charged illegally, but also in relation to whether the municipalities offer the accompanying arrangements to which they are obliged. So there is legislation that is sometimes misinterpreted. I also think that the rapporteur needs to recognise that there are actually some parties here trying to find a really good solution, and both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten did so under the previous government, because we also had consultations with the previous government ministers on this particular issue. So I do not think that the rapporteur should shoot it down in this way. But I just want to say that the rapporteur does not support motion for a resolution. B 190 from the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111120	We support it after the committee has seen a contribution from the report on the grounds that the Minister has now outlined in the course of the debate. And we are quite comfortable with that, because of course there is an economic reality, and there are also some elements that will be useful to discuss before that working group is set up under the auspices of the Minister. I just want to say that we support the fact that this group of people has some of the rights that were taken away from them because of the rules that were put in place. When it has not taken place in the past, it was partly because the proposal under consideration was not completed and partly because there was a majority in the conciliation behind the rate pool which chose to go in and try to solve the problem of the rate pool funds. However, it has had to be admitted that this is not the case, and that is why we are still left with the problem, which we want to help solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111222	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111225	I would then like to read from something that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen said: 'I will not repeat here the objections to the economy of the proposal already put forward by the Minister, instead I shall confine myself to a few comments on the first part of the proposal on savings. We share the Minister's concern that an extension of the savings option risks going against the purpose of the accompanying arrangements in section 45 and section 97 of the Services Act. Companionship is intended to help in everyday life, not on vacations. So that is what the Socialist rapporteur said last time we were discussing this issue of savings. So I think the rapporteur is shooting a little too big a cannon from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111310	I would just like to say that we have been just as astonished by how this practice has been allowed to develop and by the decisions that have proved to be the basis of the regulatory framework that Mrs Karina Adsbøl's party helped to establish. So we correct the sins of the past, and it is quite reasonable that the Danish People's Party should be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111330	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left, go ahead. We need the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate and Mr Seligman's report. Carl Holst now. Yeah, yeah, it's okay. We're gonna take it easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111400	Thank you. As the authors of this motion for a resolution, but also the previous proposals have rightly pointed out, it is extremely important to safeguard the rights of disabled people and people with disabilities. In the end, the Service Act must ensure that this is implemented in practice. The starting point, if there is something wrong, is to look at what can happen from improvements if what you want to achieve with existing legislation is not realised for one reason or another. This is what is then happening with the proposed working group, in which the objective gives us a much stronger basis for amendments to the Services Act, which must help to prevent and avoid the inappropriate consequences, which were precisely at the heart of the two previous resolutions, in other words how such inappropriateness can arise. As I mentioned earlier, the proposed measures in B 86 and B 174 are an expression of a sympathetic approach to amending the Services Act. And when I repeat it, it's also because I'm in favour of sir. Jakob Sølvhøj will stress that the elements of the previous and the present should be included in the work, and I am very pleased that the Minister's considerations address the possibility that the working group should examine both the elements proposed in B 190 and the elements which need to be clarified in the previous motions for resolutions. Against this background, the Left supports the B 190.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111608	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519111613	Thank you. After all, we have just had the discussion on the more fundamental and superior approach to this. I would like to say that I think it is very good that the remarks that have fallen during the last reading are also being made that we are now going to look at this further. However, I would not fail to say that I was not entirely enthusiastic when I saw the proposal here because I actually find that there are relatively clear rules in this area. They are so well described in the Order on the conditions for accompanying measures under the Services Act. We have also been given clarity about the rules in relation to user charges, because decisions have been taken in the case, and KL and the Minister have agreed to tell the municipalities that had charged illegal user charges that they should not. So I do not really think that there has been any ambiguity, and that is why I have been sorry, as I said in the previous paragraph, that I am a little disappointed that we are going to have a postponement of a solution to this serious problem. In addition, I would like to say that I am somewhat concerned about this if, with the treatment of this, we could get into a situation where we are actually returning to the problem that has just been resolved: we have established that it is illegal to charge users. I would just like to say very clearly that we do not think that such committee work should come out of it, that we should return to a situation in which it can be said that what has been illegal or what has been emphasised was illegal is legalised in the context of a future debate on how the legislation should be in this area. I think it is absolutely essential that we ensure that there is equality in the law for people with disabilities, so that it is not the case that the citizen with a development disability who has been granted a pension before 2003 under the old rules, for example. is significantly better off than the citizen who has been granted a pension at an earlier stage because the first citizen has a significantly better economy than the second citizen and, moreover, they have exactly the same living conditions and completely the same disability. So it is more to say that I think we will jointly find that when I was unable to agree to the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is important that we get the work of the committee. I just want to send out the clear signal that this must not lead to what we have just been found to be illegal being legalised in such a process and that it is insanely important that there should be equality before the law. So with that reservation I would like to say that I would like to have the opportunity to consider further whether perhaps there could be an opportunity to change slightly in the text of the proposal that lies here because, as I said, we are very concerned about putting the whole question of user charges at stake at all. I hope that together we will find a solution that will enable the positive commitments that were made in the previous paragraph to enable us to get to work in committee and to clarify as quickly as possible the problems and challenges that exist so that we can reach legislation that guarantees citizens with disabilities proper conditions for accompanying them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112000	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112006	Thank you. I just need to hear Enhedslisten about something. If the Danish People's Party proposes amendments which also include that the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution should be included in the working group in relation to the work there, will the Enhedslisten vote in favour, or will they vote against? Because there is no reason why we should start work in the Ministry to take account of the proposals made by Enhedslisten in connection with amendments, if the Enhedslisten will nevertheless vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112033	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112037	I would say that, when there is no majority in favour of the proposals we have just dealt with, and I have been able to listen to that, we consider it important that a committee work should be started. We will not be in the position of blocking such committee work. What I have just wanted to say is that it is very important for us to say that our prerequisite for such further work is that it should not lead to something else being achieved instead of solving the problem and creating equality for citizens with disabilities. That is, of course, our intention: to do something for those citizens who have today been deprived of the same right as everyone else. But we can really find ourselves in a situation where we have a user payment proposal in the end, which means creating inequality in relation to access to escorts just on a new basis. However, in the discussions which I expect we have in committee, we will try to move forward in such a way that it will not be us who are blocking progress on this matter. I think that would be really stupid for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112138	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112141	I understand Enhedslisten's concerns, because you can have those concerns in relation to the user payment. We now have Section 83 of the Service Act, where you can buy extra cleaning and other items. So you can say that there are challenges. But we must also recognise that we have received a great many requests from people who will be allowed to have their own resources and who are simply right, really angry about this. Can the rapporteur not comment on whether the rapporteur himself has not received the requests, in other words where we have been asked to look at these rules, even when they want to be allowed to decide for themselves what they are using their funds for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112227	Yes, I do, and I shall not try to say here that we do not have a complex case here. I agree with that. I only understand very much the requests I have received from citizens in this way, when, according to the legislation, you do not have the right to accompany you, what you really have not got when a municipality decides that there are zero crowns for it, yes, then you do not get out of your accommodation offer • that there are citizens who say: can we at least be allowed to buy the opportunity to accompany you out of the accommodation offer? It is just that I am saying that it would be sad if what came out of this was a solution in which the citizen who could afford to be accompanied was accompanied, while the citizen who could not afford to be accompanied. And that is the view I want to pursue here in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112317	Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112320	Thank you. Well, it's a little in continuation of this user charge thing. Because can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not recognise that we could come into a situation from a few joint discussions in committee, in which we both ensure equal opportunities for some of the citizens with disabilities who today do not have the possibility of accompanying them, while at the same time giving those who may have saved up their lives and who, in some way, have better economic conditions and, in this way, their whole lives, have had the opportunity to choose things? an opportunity to still be able to buy extra benefits, so as to perhaps increase inequality, but to improve the conditions of both target groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112412	For us it is quite fundamental that there is equality before the law in the sense that at a level which, of course, also depends on the cost, you are sure of accompanying, whether you are a citizen with disabilities who is less well-off or if you are stone-rich by virtue of an inheritance. We must be able to say that every citizen is guaranteed that there is a proper opportunity to get escorts. It is possible that it is worth a discussion whether there can be anything in relation to the citizen's use of money that we need to look at. It is not my view that we should have people with disabilities in economic administration because they have a disability, of course we should not, but it is quite fundamental for us that there is a guarantee that those citizens who have no money will also have the opportunity to get out of their accommodation offerings with escorts so that they can have decent conditions and a decent life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112505	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112508	Then I think we've talked closer to each other again. For what is at least our starting point ahead of hopefully a working group and some discussions about it here will be complete as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentions equality before the law, but also freedom. If you have the means yourself and want to use them, you have the opportunity. So I think it was a misunderstanding we got talked further away from each other than we, suggesting, really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112540	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112543	As I said, the principle of equality is crucial, but we are also very concerned about the introduction of user charges in these areas. I do not think we should wish for a situation in which, in the settlement of eight citizens, we can see that some people buy long vacations and lots of excursions of the employees who work on the settlement offer, while the neighbor enviously has to watch because you have to live for a very poor pension. However, I can hear that it will be included in the discussion. As I said, what is our absolute starting point is to create equality before the law in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112620	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112626	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs and the Minister have mentioned, this debate has already begun in the last reading, when the Liberal Alliance also indicated that we want to support B 190, which is a proposal from the Danish People's Party that a working group should be set up to draw up proposals for solutions and, as I understand it, to improve the current accompanying arrangements. Of course, we can only support this because we want clear rules, more flexible rules and also new proposals for the scheme in general. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance too, we believe that citizens who have economic room for manoeuvre should be given the opportunity to buy extra hours of companionship, just as we should be able to save time. There I understand from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it may be that we need to have some concrete discussions on this and the challenges it can bring about. But if these people only later in life have had their disability, they have had the opportunity throughout their lives for long journeys and purchases of all sorts of extra things that the neighbor has not necessarily had the opportunity to do. This is what our society is all about: some have the opportunity to do something that others do not have. And it's no different because you're disabled. Nor is it the case that because you have the same disability, you have the same living conditions. Life conditions can easily be different, even if you share a disability. So for the Liberal Alliance, it is quite clear that we are going to this working group, which hopefully will be set up, with a desire to ensure more freedom for citizens, easier and more equal access to the arrangements that exist, clearly more freedom and easier access to the system. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112832	Thank you. There are no comments. We must put on the next rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519112850	As I have said before, we are in favour of setting up a working group, which everyone in this House has spoken about in the past, I think. We would like to look at a regulatory simplification in this area, as we believe that many resources are being spent on over-control in this area. In this context, we would like the mandate of the working group to be extended to perhaps include looking at additional expenditure. You can read and here I quote Thorkild Olesen, who is chairman of Danske Handicaporganisationer (Danske Handicaporganisationer) that there are examples where municipalities spend 16 percent of the working time managing 1 percent of the costs. In addition, the handling of extra costs often creates an unworthy meeting between the citizen and the case officer, where suspicion and control come into the centre. That is why we think it is important to consider whether the mandate, for example, should be considered. may be extended to include additional expenditure. In relation to the last debate that has taken place, we are also worried that it may be a slippery path for this working group that this user fee can be introduced. In any case, we do not accept the introduction of user charges in this area. However, we are positive about looking at simplifying the rules. For example: Imagine, as was also mentioned earlier, that a rock map model could be envisaged, as in the case of elderly people in home care, where it could be imagined that the disabled person himself helped to dispose of and save time. So we are positive about the proposal for a working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113047	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113052	Thank you. Both the present and the previous rapporteur had a nervous attitude towards user charges. But what lies in the motion for a resolution, which is to be included in the committee's work, is the right of purchase. If we do not now call it a user charge with the associations it can provide, but call it what it is, namely the right of fellow human beings to make purchases for their own money in addition to the services provided by the Social Code, is the rapporteur totally opposed to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113135	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113139	I am expressing a scepticism or, to say the least, a concern as to whether it might be a slippery path to open up to this. It is, after all, still a purchase which, as was mentioned earlier, involves the staff of the institution in which the disabled person lives. So I believe that this is something that we will at least look at not being an inequality in access to services in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113214	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113239	It was the rapporteur of the Left who began, and who made me want to take the floor, because does the Alternative believe that, basically, while people who do not have any job cuts, that is, people like us sitting here, are free to spend their money, just as they want to buy holidays, buy all the public services to which they are entitled, as soon as you have a disability, mentally or physically, you no longer have the right to spend your money freely? Then you should not buy and secure better conditions in life than you did when you did not have a disability. Is that the alternative's attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113324	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113326	I am not sure that I have understood the question, but I would like to say, as a former rapporteur said, that this is not really about whether you can go out and buy something in a store or spend your money in all sorts of other areas. This is about, for example, whether you're gonna... in the case of an offer of accommodation, the purchase of accompaniment or other supplies may be made there. And there is just as I mentioned before that there may be a concern that there may be an inequality in relation to the residents who are there. Whatever else you spend your money on, we will not interfere in any way whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113403	Here you go, Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113404	But does the alternative rapporteur not recognise that this inequality exists among all other people in society? Perhaps I can buy things that the rapporteur has no opportunity to buy, but the rapporteur will not limit me to that because it creates an inequality between us as human beings. And it's the same thing that applies to these people. Just because they have a disability, the alternative wants them to be limited in their use of their own resources. What I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm is that it is the alternative's view that people with disabilities want to be restricted in freely spending their own resources on what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113441	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113443	I do not recognise the premise of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur to view this area as a market in the same way as when we go out and spend our money on an open market. These are services that we offer to citizens, and I and the alternative must be equal for everyone. So I don't recognise that this is like a market where you just have to be able to buy yourself for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113514	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113519	I have to follow up on Mrs Laura Lindahl's trail, because today we have Section 83 of the Service Act, which means that you have the opportunity to buy extra cleaning if you want to clean all seven days of the week or other things. What is the rapporteur's position on Article 83 of the Services Act? Will it also be said that the elderly are not allowed to buy extra benefits if they need more in their daily lives? I talked to an elderly citizen, and he thought it would be sad if he could not buy benefits, for example. would like to bathe twice a day or once every day or would have cleaned all seven days of the week or other. Is the alternative against Article 83 of the Services Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113608	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113610	Now it is not Section 83 of the Service Act that we are discussing today. We could sort of extend this to a very, very big discussion about inequality and other issues. But what we are talking about today is that I have expressed some kind of, what should one say, focus or orientation against the fact that the Danish People's Party wants to have this about user charges. There is nothing more in it than that it is something we want to keep an eye on, because we do not want some form of inequality to arise between, for example. residents on a settlement offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113650	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113651	There is something the rapporteur has been completely wrong about, because we in the Danish People's Party do not want increased user charges. We have received numerous requests that people are not allowed to use their own resources as they please, and that is what we have been listening to. That's why we've made this proposal. So increased user charges are not the way we want to go at all. We want to get this area covered. Now the rapporteur says that we are not discussing section 83 of the Services Act. I have heard the rapporteur say from the platform that the rapporteur would like to include additional expenditure in this too. I just have to say that we are not discussing any additional costs either, but we can take what is about additional costs into account in the adult provisions of the Services Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113729	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113731	I am pleased that we agree not to introduce user charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113739	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113747	In the light of the discussion we have just had on the accompanying scheme, the proposal from the Danish People's Party seems quite reasonable, and I can also see that almost before we started discussing it, the Minister had reacted and offered a working group. When that sounds reasonable, it is especially true if the call is to be understood as a call for a completely open analysis in that working group with a view to making better use of resources and ensuring better solutions. I think I can see some other elements in the motion for a resolution, which is why we are a little more hesitant to simply endorse it immediately. But we are in favour of setting up a working group and of continuing to work on this whole problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113834	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519113844	This proposal has, of course, a certain parallel to the proposal B 86 which we have just examined, because it is also about the possibility of accompanying people with disabilities, including social education accompanying them. However, as I see it, it is more important to examine a number of different parts of the accompanying scheme and some of the things you would like to have examined are, in fact, relatively simple to answer, at least the first three questions, and there are, of course, some clear guidelines. So I think that some of the intention of the proposal must also be to bring about some change. It also says that there is a desire for new solutions, and I would like to support a working group to work on some new solutions and perhaps also some new guidelines. I would like to repeat what I also said during the previous reading, namely that we in the SF believe it is absolutely essential to guarantee people with disabilities freedom and participation and equal opportunities to participate in social activities. That is why we also support a working group, not just to examine the possibilities offered by the law, for example. look at whether the provisions of the Services Act on accompanying aid depend on whether people with disabilities can demand it themselves and whether there may be any restrictions on what support they can get, because that is something you can actually read from the law, but we need to look at what it is for some changes that really need to be made. One might actually have wanted this proposal to have been worked on with the proposal we have just considered, because then perhaps we would have gone a step further. I can be a little worried that a working party may become a jar of jelly, where we do not really have a decision, but we must keep an oath on that. In any case, I think that the idea of clarifying the area and creating new solutions is fine. With regard to what has just been a debate about the purchase benefits, I think that I might as well take it in advance, I would say that yes, there is a difference between people's income and wealth in this country. It is there for everyone, and it means that we can buy different things, but we also have a basic premise in our welfare society, which is that basic welfare, and that is what I see as being, in other words, being able to get support to move freely in this society and be able to take part in some activities, is a good thing everyone should have. One could imagine this residence offer, where there are 6-8 residents, where some can afford to depopulated the institution of permanent staff, and the rest of the residents must stay at home, and one has to call for temporary workers. It certainly reduces the offer which should be a common good for all the residents who live there. I am not going to reject the idea of buying-in, but I would very much like to see the final proposal before I say whether or not the SF will support it, because it must be crucial that accompanying, supporting, educational support is a basic welfare benefit. However, as I said, the SF would like to see how we can improve the area and we look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114224	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114228	After all, the motion for a resolution states that the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to set up as soon as possible a working group to prepare proposals for solutions to the challenges of getting accompanying through the Service Act to people with disabilities. And then I just think it's like you see the barriers instead. I am sure that the rapporteur, like myself, has been asked a great deal about this, so I just have to hear: what is the point of the SF saying from the platform that they cannot fully support this? Even if, among other things, we do not know what we are going to do. include the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution in the working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114308	I would like to support the idea of a working group. What I would like to comment on is that paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the motion for a resolution are, of course, questions which can be answered by the existing law, i.e. whether people with disabilities can choose to pay for accompanying services themselves. And no, they can't do that with the law we have now. Can they choose freely to use the scheme for social education activities? We can also say 'no' to that. And can they be accompanied if they don't ask for it themselves? No, they can't. These are some of the things we want to change, and I therefore share the intention to find solutions, and I am aware of this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114355	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114357	But that is precisely the way it has been set up, because if this motion for a resolution is to be adopted, the working group that will be set up will have to examine it. Well, you can say one thing or the other, but that's exactly why we have to look at these elements in order to find solutions to this. So I hope that the SF can say from the platform that we support the resolution so that we can work together on the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114426	Then I will reply in such a relatively short way: SF supports a working group that focuses on solutions and not so much on investigating something that we know well in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114446	Thank you. The B 190 is about requiring the government to set up as soon as possible a working group to prepare proposals for solutions to the challenges of getting accompanying through the Services Act to citizens with disabilities. The Conservative People's Party can support the resolution. We have seen several examples of the fact that the legislation of the current accompanying regime is not working satisfactorily, and that is why we support the setting up of a working group which can make proposals for improving legislation. Basically, the Conservative People's Party agrees with the proposers' view of the Services Act, namely that it should safeguard the rights of disabled people, and therefore it is important that the legislation is clear so that the citizen can easily see through what services can be expected. We also think it is important to note that the content of B 174 and B 86 which we discussed earlier, namely the question of saving more hours than the 90 and the use of social pedagogy assistance, must also be included in this study. In addition, we agree with the areas which the proposers want the working group to examine, including the economic consequences of the proposals for changes that the working group might draw up. I would like to conclude by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate and saying that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114613	Thanks to Anders Johansson. Then it is the rapporteur of the proposer, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519114624	Thank you for that, President. First of all, thank you for all the positive statements and also thanks to the government for supporting this resolution and, of course, to the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and others who have been positive today. In the Danish People's Party, we would really like to find constructive solutions to the whole of the accompanying problem, and we have also listened to the many inquiries we have received, including from people with disabilities who will be allowed to have their own resources in relation to challenges and the accompanying problem. We have among other things. just seen it in relation to summer holiday periods in connection with SølundMusik-Festival. One might also ask whether it is reasonable that someone cannot get a companion because they cannot ask for it themselves, and we in the Danish People's Party also think this is a relevant question to find out. The fact is that the very large number of pool funds that have been allocated to us have not solved the accompanying challenges. That is why we have proposed to the government that a working group be set up as soon as possible to draw up proposals for solutions to the challenges of getting accompanying through the Services Act for people with disabilities. Among other things, it has to be done. are examined whether people with disabilities can choose to pay for escorts themselves if they want to accompany them beyond what they can be granted through the Service Act according to the same principle as Section 83 of the Service Act. Of course, it is also about finding solutions in relation to the requests we have received and about people with disabilities who are accompanied by section 97 of the Service Act, can choose to use the scheme for social educational activities if they wish, and about people with disabilities who are unable to demand accompanying services under section 97 of the Service Act, nevertheless can be granted an accompanying arrangement under this paragraph. Then it is also that we want to find out what economic consequences there are, and that is why we also want clear guidelines to be drawn up on how the rules are administered so that there is no doubt about the obligation of the municipalities to offer accompanying services under the provisions of the Services Act. The Committee on Social Affairs and Internal Affairs approves the terms of reference of the working group and I am very pleased that the Minister has said during the debate that it will also be sent to the committee. Of course, we also call on the government to ensure that the working group covers widely, that it is set up as soon as possible and that we get some results from it by 1 February at least. We are also willing to make amendments to the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, so that, as the Minister has also mentioned today, we can at the same time examine what solutions can be found on the Enhedslisten's proposal, so that we can identify the whole area and find some good solutions together in the future. The reason why we have also tabled the resolution is, of course, that there has been a long, long debate and that no solutions have yet been found, and there have been motions for resolutions in the Parliamentary Assembly which have either not been supported or which have lapsed. So there have been several measures, but there has been no support for it. That is why it is well thought out, but we are proposing a working group, also because we think that this is where we can find 90 mandates to get it here, one can say, quite widely and thoroughly investigated. Thank you for the floor and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115020	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115024	I would like to say once again that I welcome the fact that we can make progress on this matter. But now the rapporteur mentions the issue of Sølund Musik-Festival and that there are citizens who have had difficulty in participating in it. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that there should only be one thing that determines whether a citizen with disabilities participates in Sølund Musik-Festival, and that is whether one likes the music and association, but that it can never be a question of whether the individual citizen can afford to participate and pay for his or her companionship?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115100	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115103	I think that when you have a disability and you have a disability, you must of course also be offered the assistance provided by the Services Act, which is why I think there are some challenges in relation to it. I think it has been incredibly sad to see the whole debate we have had on the accompanying scheme, which is why I hope we can find a solution to it, even in relation to the fact that from the settlement, as has been done in the past, we can go to Sølund Musik-Festival, and then find out what specific barriers these are precisely in relation to the whole issue. However, I would also like to listen to all the inquiries I have received about people who would like to have the right to spend their own money and who do not want us to decide what they need it for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115159	Is there a new short remark? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115203	I can hear from the debate that we can have a lot of debate on user charges in this area. The question of how to define the concept of user charges, I can hear that there may be a need for discussion. Nevertheless, I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that, whatever the outcome of that discussion, it is absolutely essential that, with the consideration of such committee work, we arrive at a proposal that ensures that those citizens with disabilities who are today delimited from the right to accompany them, because they cannot ask for it themselves, have an equal right and access to accompany them similar to that of other disabled citizens today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115250	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115253	I understand the rapporteur's question about asking for escorts, because it is really, really difficult if you do not have any language and can not signal that you want to go on a trip or you want to attend a festival or anything else. So I think that we clearly have a challenge there, and I hope that we will also have a thorough examination of this in the working group. I am sure that there will be some competent people who can give us a very good proposal on how to secure the best opportunities and the best solutions for people with disabilities and disabilities in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115328	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115351	It is not the Minister for Finance until the Minister for Finance has spoken, and when the Minister for Finance has spoken, the call is made for lunch break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115416	The refugee crisis presents our public finances with a particular challenge which increases the need to prioritise what we spend money on. Our common EU players for public finances already provide flexibility for so-called exceptional events. The Commission has indicated that this flexibility will be used in the context of the refugee crisis. This means that, under certain conditions, countries will be able to escape the imposition and sanctions if they exceed the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact solely because of additional expenditure on refugees. Conditions shall ensure that the key consideration remains to ensure sound public finances. The Government supports that additional expenditure on the refugee crisis is handled flexibly within the framework of the conditions set out in the rules. The SF's motion for a resolution, on the other hand, goes too far towards a general exemption for various expenditures which go beyond the rules. So we want not only flexibility in terms of direct expenditure on the refugee crisis, but also to ignore, for example, the fact that we are dealing with the problem of refugees. aid in the neighbourhood and development aid. I would just like to say that a penny is a penny, whether it goes to additional expenditure on refugees or spent on other tasks in society. The bill must be paid, and we will not pay now, later generations will have to pay. All public expenditure is basically important for health, education, infrastructure, etc., and no expenditure is free. We therefore need to give priority to this. The motion for a resolution is aimed at pretending that this priority need does not exist. The management of the refugee crisis will set a precedent for future special expenditure. It is therefore essential that we do not open up wide-ranging exemptions, but only apply flexibility to direct refugee expenditure and cases where breaches of budgetary rules are due solely to these costs. Otherwise, we will have a slippery slope with a desire to withdraw all sorts of so-called special expenses. This does not make economic sense, precisely because expenditure is an expense, it must always be financed, and we risk new debt building and a potential debt crisis with major consequences for growth, employment and prosperity. Then we must remember that it is not for the European Union's sake that we keep our budgets under control, but it is just common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519115709	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then the meeting is suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130007	The sitting is resumed. I should like to start by saying that it is therefore a technical mistake for the vote A to be turned on, but you can stay in the Chamber if you like. Just before the lunch break, the Minister for Finance spoke, but there was no possibility of short remarks, and I should therefore like to ask whether anyone has brief comments to make to the Minister for Finance in connection with the first reading of the motion for a resolution. B 91. Are there any brief comments? That is not the case. We shall now give the floor to the first rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130104	Thank you for the floor, President. There is no doubt that the refugee crisis at all possible levels poses a huge challenge for Europe. This also applies to our ability to finance the expenditure that the Member States must bear in the short and long term. At home alone, the Ministry of Finance estimates that by 2020, the flow of refugees will increase both demographic trends and direct expenditure in the short and medium term. Both will have a negative impact on the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy. Other countries face even greater challenges and even greater costs. Social democracy basically supports the EU's budgetary rules, which include: is enshrined in the Stability and Growth Pact and in the Financial Pact. They ensure financial accountability in Europe. We therefore believe that a deviation from the EU's budgetary rules is not appropriate. The aim of the Stability and Growth Pact is, of course, as everyone in this House knows, that the Member States' public finances do not go out there where they exceed the criterion of a budget deficit of 3% or less. of GDP and a public debt of up to 60%. of GDP. It is already possible, within the existing rules, to run with large deficits for longer periods, such as: in a refugee crisis. Thus, although we in Denmark have a public finance deficit in these years, we are not in danger of getting a recommendation from the European Union. Already back in January this year, President Juncker of the Commission presented a clarification of the flexibility clauses in the Pact which actually allow countries with exceptionally high costs to have more time to comply with budget rules. A deficit becomes neither more nor less responsible by spending too much money on one thing rather than another. Either you have some requirements as to how big the deficits must be, or you do not. There may be many good reasons for debating whether the Stability and Growth Pact and the Financial Pact have been put together in the right way, and that is why we welcome this debate today. However, we believe that there is sufficient flexibility as it is now, and the countries with exceptionally high costs in connection with the refugee crisis, we have already supported here in the Folketing that the European Union can help by financing their expenditure. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130258	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130304	I must confess that I am a little puzzled by the Socialists' announcement in this area and also the arguments for it. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says that we in Denmark are not in danger of getting any recommendation. No, but to what do I owe it? This is, of course, due to the fact that the appropriations for asylum expenditure are being taken from aid from the developing countries. That is, of course, one of the problems in all the European countries at the moment. We are undermining aid from the developing countries; we are undermining the costs of refugees, as we call DACs with a technical expression. I therefore believe that the Socialists in other contexts have criticised this quite strongly. That is why I cannot understand why we cannot see that with the whole of the European refugee situation there is something that can justify a slightly more relaxed financial policy than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130407	In general terms, however, as I said, I think there can always be grounds for discussion, including with the other Member States, as to whether the Stability and Growth Pact has been put together in the right way. The criticism we have also raised in the past, of the level and extent of the DAC's assistance, we are, as it were, at the moment, but in this specific case, when the rules are being extended to all European countries, we find that there is plenty of flexibility in the current rules, even in the light of the precision that came in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130436	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130438	After all, this is a discussion that is also taking place in other European countries and in the Commission. The Commission admitted only yesterday in a press release that this is actually a problem for the economies of many countries. It's not just in Denmark that you DAC's doing this. In other words, Europe is simply at risk of undermining development aid, which means that in the long term we will have even more refugees. You get into a vicious, vicious circle. Would the Socialist rapporteur not agree that this is a challenge that needs to be tackled a little more offensively than what is being done here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130517	I admit it's a huge challenge. Just in relation to this specific proposal from the SF, we have of course considered that we think that there is plenty of flexibility within the rules in force. If it is the case that, as some countries have, the cost of the refugee crisis is enormous, there is, in fact, the scope to postpone compliance with some of the requirements laid down in the Pact. So that's what we've assessed in this specific case. But that does not mean that we underestimate the scale of the challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130549	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130553	That surprises me, because it seems that the rapporteur is not listening to it at all, sir. Holger K. Nielsen said about development aid. That is why I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that sometimes it really pays to take up debt. It can be really cheap and make a lot of money in the future if you take up something really big debt now, as opposed to just letting things flow with the consequences it will then have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130625	I recognise that in some cases it is worth both theoretically and in concrete terms that we have also shown in history how to take up debts in order to finance either large projects or large investments or major challenges, etc. In this specific case of this motion for a resolution, we have just considered that there is plenty of flexibility within the existing rules and that, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we actually want to see and participate in the discussion that is going on around Europe as a whole about whether the Stability and Growth Pact is properly linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130701	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130703	However, as far as development aid is concerned, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree that all the countries that are currently cutting development aid, with reference to the stability and growth requirements, are helping to impose a much higher cost on themselves and everyone else in the short term, not even in the long term, but in the short term. Every time you cut back on aid to the refugee camps, every time you cut back on the opportunity to build stable societies in poor countries or in former war zones, you say every time you say: we want more refugees. And it's gonna cost a farm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130741	I agree that this is the long-term challenge, and I do not think I am saying anything that indicates that I disagree with what Mr. Søren Søndergaard says. But that just doesn't change the fact that we have a set of rules where it's the case that when you use a crown, you've spent a penny. And we have to follow those rules, and within those rules there are also some flexibility clauses that we at least think are sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130804	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519130815	Well, boom boom! What is the point of this proposal from the Socialist People's Party? I've thought about it, and I've come to call it a shot in the mist. Well, you might get such a feeling that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen had been on a national economic course with the former Greek Finance Minister. As you know, Greece did not consider that the cost of defence should be included in the calculations as to whether Greece was entitled to join EMU. But if I'm to be completely honest, I actually think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen needs a course at Mrs Mette Reissmann. Mrs Mette Reissmann has, at any rate, been very careful to advise Danes who have fallen into the luxury trap, in other words on the private front, and there it is now, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen's intention that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen will do the same on behalf of the whole nation. Basically, we in the Danish People's Party do not believe that the European Union should interfere in the consumption of the Member States, and certainly not when it comes to the countries that are part of the European Union's single currency, but that does not mean that as a country you can simply spend the money you do not have. In relation to the specific proposal, the Socialist People's Party is trying to make it appear that if the European Union just quadruples a little on its budgetary rules, the EU countries do not need to cut welfare at all or raise taxes to finance the astronomical high intake of migrants that we are currently experiencing. It is, of course, only from the point of view of the fact that we can spend money that we do not have, and thus create deficits in public budgets almost in unlimited form. However, it may be very appealing if you are a socialist and have many wishes about what you want to do and fewer proposals about how you want to finance them, but that does not change it that the cost of asylum seekers is astronomical, whether you are allowed to spend the money or no. For the next four years, the government has submitted calculations suggesting that it will cost the Danish taxpayers 48 billion. kr. to accept all these so-called refugees in accumulated expenditure, and that is money that must be found regardless of the EU's budgetary rules. Therefore, the task in the optics of the Danish People's Party must first of all be to reduce the influx of migrants to Europe, and then first and foremost to Denmark. When it comes to migration, there are some push and pull factors, and there are quite powerful pull factors when it comes to Europe. One of the greatest is the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits in a north- or western European country and being included in our universal welfare system. Another pull factor is Angela Merkel's and Stefan Löfven's quite headless alien policy. We therefore see in the Danish People's Party first and foremost the task of limiting the number of migrants seeking Europe and then quite secondary, or perhaps tertiary or something even further down the line, the problem that the Socialist People's Party is raising here. Asylum seekers cost oceans of money. The influx destroys Danish-European culture and changes our society forever, simply because the integration of tens of thousands of Muslims from backward parts of the world is an impossibility. In other words, we should all have been taught ideas about this since 1983 at least, probably in reality before, if we take into account the so-called guest workers; there was not a great deal of visitors to it. Of course, we can try to hide this by implementing a proposal such as the current one, but our descendants will not judge us by what sanctions from the EU system we were temporarily able to mitigate, but by whether we have left a viable Denmark for them, and that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131252	Is the rapporteur finished? Kenneth Kristensen Berth Yes, that is the rapporteur). Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131258	I understand that the President was in doubt as to whether the rapporteur was finished, because normally at first reading you have a position on the proposal, a position on the proposal. It didn't come here. The rapporteur's capacity to tell us what the position was completely exceeded, or should the rapporteur's much talk about everything else be understood in the sense that the Danish People's Party is against the financial pact, except in terms of limiting the right of countries to decide by a democratic majority to make development aid? Then they have to be hit by the EU's financial pact, that is to say, you really love the EU's financial pact. Is that really what the rapporteur was trying to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131339	It's even for Enhedslisten's normal level a bunch of bullshit, like mr. Søren Søndergaard who comes forward with. So I explained our position on this proposal quite clearly and clearly. That's like, "Well, boom boom." What the Socialist People's Party is proposing here is like calling the plumber when it comes down with water from the roof. It might be a good idea to start repairing the roof. This does not address the real problem, namely that it is pouring in with people from Africa and the Middle East who want to share in our Europe, our well-being. That's what you have to concentrate on stopping, not sucking around in all these rules. So you can only spend the money once, unless the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten will tell me exactly where the money tree, which I have a feeling of the Socialist People's Party and Enhedslisten holds, stands. Then I'll start picking the berries from it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131446	Sir. Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131448	Well, the mystery is spreading. I thought the Danish People's Party was against the financial pact. Maybe the Danish People's Party isn't? When it comes to the issue of the EU deciding whether to spend money on refugees and possibly immigrants and development aid, the rules of the financial pact must apply. Is that the view of the Danish People's Party? The unitary list is fundamentally opposed to the financial pact. We do not think that it should apply anywhere, and if anyone proposes that there is anywhere it should not apply, we will vote in favour of it. It's a step on the way. But the Danish People's Party apparently thinks that in some areas it is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131532	Thinks sir. Søren Søndergaard really that I am here during the discussion of a motion for a resolution from the Socialist People's Party and is avoiding the politics of the Danish People's Party? Of course I don't. I am just saying that this is really a proposal that is quite far-fetched in hemp. I am well aware of the Socialist People's Party's position on the question of hemp, but nevertheless that is not what it is about. What is at stake is to limit the influx of migrants into Europe, not to camouflage the cost of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131607	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519131627	First of all, I would like to stress that the Left also looks with great concern at the extra costs incurred by the municipalities and the state as a result of the huge flows of refugees into Europe at the moment. It is something that requires extraordinary resources of both a human and an economic nature to be able to cope with that pressure, and it is not something you just feel here in small Denmark; it is also something you feel in the rest of the European Union. That is why today's proposals could be regarded as a sympathetic attempt to meet particularly the economic challenges. But the proposal will not work, because if we adopt this resolution, a precedent will be created to change the current and quite excellent definition we have at EU level of the concept of special additional expenditure. For example, the proposers themselves propose extending the concept to include assistance in the neighbourhood and development assistance. Then you could ask yourself the question: why actually stop there? What about the extraordinary costs that refugee flows may entail for infrastructure, education, pensions, etc.? What other tasks of society could be described as extraordinary in these terms? We have ratified the EU's budget law, and it is precisely to prevent Member States from having excessive deficits on their public finances on the pretext of having additional expenditure on one or the other. It is an essential part of the basis for European cooperation that the public economy is not progressing in the Member States. And if you take a look beyond the European map, you will see that there are a large number of countries that are having difficulty meeting the commitments set out in the EU's budgetary rules. One could mention countries such as Italy, Spain and Portugal, which are either very close or even above the limit of what is considered financially responsible, and the uncontested winner, or rather loser in the race, is Greece, which, in addition to sun, summer and Zorba, has also become notoriously known for being unable to deliver a fairly coherent public economy. The Greeks have repeatedly violated the EU's budgetary rules and brought themselves and the system that otherwise supports them to the brink of collapse. Fortunately, there is even a very long way to go from Denmark to Greece, both physically and economically, and although under the previous government we were close to bringing ourselves closer to a recommendation from the European Union, it is something that, fortunately, is not comparable to the chaos that unfortunately afflicts the Greek public economy. If we first open the door to deduct more expenditure, taking into account the concept of special extra costs, we are simply in danger of eroding the concept and thus opening the door to a new debt crisis. We cannot afford to make demands on the other countries to comply with the EU's budgetary rules if we want to undermine them ourselves. The budgetary rules are very much helping to create an economically stable Europe and a society in balance. The motion for a resolution by the SF gambles with Denmark's good reputation in the European Union and, above all, the economic and social stability which all else equally characterizes the European Community. The Left is therefore voting against the resolution, but we recognise, of course, that Denmark and the rest of Europe are under pressure, including economic pressure, from the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132007	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132013	Now that we have seen what has happened in the last year and now that we can see how much expenditure it is going to cost, for example. the Danish society, but also other societies, is the rapporteur not considering whether it might have been a good idea that, when we stood there a year or a half ago, we had invested a little in preventing that situation from occurring?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132046	I and the Left agree that things can also be done to prevent various crises. It may be with military force, it may be with foreign aid. There are plenty of ways to prevent a refugee crisis, for example. We on the Left agree that too little has been done on the part of the world community to prevent, among other things. the situation in Syria. However, it does not make much sense to be hindsight and to say that some others should have done something else earlier. We can just look at what the situation is today and what opportunities we have to address the problems today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132128	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132130	At that time the UN shouted and screamed, among other things. to the Danish government and to other governments and said: If you do not send some more money to the refugee camps, we will have to cut back on the rations and it will trigger a flood of refugees to your country. That is to say, when they said it, it would have been wise to listen to them and it would have been wise to make that investment, even if it had meant borrowing some money that you did not have as an expense at a later stage. It would have been wise to have shown due care in that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132205	If there is the question of whether it is wise to create large public deficits, because then you think you are preventing something, I disagree. But we can do something within the framework of an economy, and if the Enhedslisten will help to make public savings in other areas, so that we can spend something more, for example, on refugee camps, it is interesting if that is the tone I hear from the rapporteur. But if I know him right, I guess I'll take my mouth too full.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132235	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132239	I mean, when you listen to mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, you get the impression that this is just about giving up to spend money and creating very, very large deficits. That is not what we are talking about here at all. The challenge is to address the fact that, as is currently the case with the huge flow of refugees that Europe is experiencing, in almost every country, there is a policy of taking asylum expenditure from foreign aid. And if you didn't, you had to take them from the welfare area. Both have major consequences. Taking them away from foreign aid has consequences in relation to long-term policy, including in relation to the flow of refugees. Taking them from the welfare area has an impact on the public's perception of this problem. That's why you have to discuss this in a different way. This is something that other European countries actually agree with and with which the Commission agrees. So I think you should take this discussion a little more pragmatic and a little more earthy, compared to the fact that we are facing enormous challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132344	Well, it's an unfortunate situation that we have to spend so much money on refugees in Denmark, and I think, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has heard the Left say many times that we could go much further with the same means by using them in some refugee camps in the neighbourhoods. It just mustn't challenge the overall framework. Because if we challenge the overall framework, we will have some problems. It may be that in the short run it could solve something, but in the long run it will create economic instability. And within the current rules of the European Union it is possible that, if this is due solely to an exceptional situation and there is no debt of more than 60%. of GDP, may exceed this ceiling of 3%. So the current rules take account of the fact that extraordinary, temporary, short-term pressure can be exerted by some external events that are not so much influenced by oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132440	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132443	But that is no more than the fact that the Danish Government is also using the budget rules as an argument for cutting aid for developing countries. That's why you sit in the Ministry of Finance when you have to get this equation going up and say you have to pass the bill on to the poorest people in Africa. And that is untenable, because in the long term we are simply in danger of undermining all the poverty-oriented development aid. Even now you are very, very low, and we need to take that more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132522	Well, I recognize that there is a dilemma. But who can we help if we undermine the foundations of Europe's economy? Then we can't help at all. So this thing about pushing something in front of you and borrowing in the hope that it will be better in the long term, I think you should be very, very careful about. If I look down the front row, I see at least a gentleman who will be able to agree with what is on a sign on a desk over there in the Ministry of Finance: where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132557	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132614	It is sometimes the case that other parties make a proposal which they wish they had put forward themselves. This proposal is such a proposal. The reason for this proposal is the current refugee crisis, which places additional burdens on many European countries, on the one hand, on the treatment of refugees, and on the other hand, we have heard a lot about this, and there is still a discussion about how big it is, but there is no doubt that it imposes an extra cost on the countries, on the other hand, on development aid in order to avoid more refugees. Hopefully no one is so naive as to think that the pressure for refugees is over, especially not by the one who, I would say, perverse agreement concluded with Turkey's authoritarian President Erdogan. It will only lead to a civil war in Turkey being triggered. After all, we have seen how Erdogan has thanked the EU countries for their support by putting forward a proposal in Parliament to waive the immunity of a party that received more than 10%. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the European Parliament is fully involved in the process of European integration. There was a vote here the other day and the final vote is tomorrow. If it is not possible to obtain the decisive majority in Parliament, he will probably hold a referendum which will, of course, trigger a civil war in Turkey. It is quite obvious that a section of the population, whether a large majority or a smaller majority, will decide that the minority just does not belong in the country's political system. And that civil war will trigger millions of refugees from Turkey to Europe. So the idea that this is over is deeply antiquarian. So the problem of spending some money on avoiding that development is absolutely crucial to discuss. It is therefore also common sense not to use the EU's financial pact to punish countries which choose to fulfil this task, which choose to help prevent future disasters and therefore to exceed the budgetary requirements set. It is almost common sense that it did not have to be adopted. The only problem is that this does not apply in the European Union. Because although there are some rules in the European Union and in the EU's financial pact that, in particular situations, you have those possibilities, etc., we have seen that this has not come into force. And exactly the EU's budgetary rules are being used as an argument for cutting back on aid. It can be said that the euro countries are forced to join the financial pact because they have the euro. As far as Denmark is concerned, we are there voluntarily. So, I do not know whether it is voluntary for the Danish people, but for the political system it is voluntary. We are in the financial pact because a majority in the Danish Parliament has decided to submit to the very narrow rules. That is why it is our view that, once we have realised that the narrow rules are not very appropriate, the logic is, of course, also that we get a majority that abolishes the Danish submission under the Financial Pact. This is another discussion that we can discuss later. However, this is at least a step in the right direction, namely to say that when investments are necessary to avoid future huge expenditure, this should not be prevented by the EU's financial pact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519132959	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133025	Europe is in a difficult situation. We have major problems dealing with the refugee and migration crisis, we have an abysmal crisis of confidence between politicians and citizens, and we have a real growth crisis. As politicians, we are responsible for seeking solutions to all three problems. With this motion for a resolution, the SF proposes that the European Union should, for a period of time, condone the failure of the Member States to comply with the EU's budgetary rules, with reference to the increased expenditure that the Member States may have in relation to the refugee crisis. In this way, it is proposed to remedy one problem by aggravating another. If the economies are allowed to sail as a result of the refugee crisis, we risk exacerbating one of Europe's other major problems, namely the very low growth rate and the resulting major problems of unemployment, particularly high youth unemployment, in some countries of Europe. That would be a fatal mistake, because the European economy is suffering extremely badly from the growth rate. In the period 2008-2015 growth in the EU was 2.4%, while in the United States it was 10.2%. This corresponds to a growth rate of 1.4%. per year in the United States and 0.3% in the United States. annual in the EU. Therefore, there is no need to send the political signal to the heavily burdened European economies, that it is quite fine to increase debt and to increase public spending. There is such a need for economic reforms in European countries, not for a laissez-faire economy that has brought us into a situation where growth is low and competitiveness ditto. The SF is right that the refugee and migrant crisis is pushing our economies. We must address this by seeking to resolve the refugee and migrant crisis. When spending increases, economic reforms are even more urgently needed that enable us to pay the bill, not to exacerbate the growth crisis. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal, but let me finally welcome the fact that the SF in its comments on the proposal expresses concern that taxes may increase in Europe. Here the SF and the Liberal Alliance can finely find common ground. We could start by lowering taxes in the EU's most treasured country, Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133256	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133300	It is to the point that Mrs Christina Egelund cites the United States as an example and that there is very high growth. But will she not admit that there is actually a more lenient fiscal policy than there is in the EU area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133319	I would like to admit that, but that does not change the fact that Europe is in economic competition with the United States as a whole, and that is the reality we have to deal with. This is a problem for European companies, and it is also a problem for European citizens who cannot get a job because our economy is close to stalling and at least lags far behind the growth rates that we have in, for example. U.S.A.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133344	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133346	Now it is difficult to have a large and fundamental economic discussion in brief remarks, but would the rapporteur not agree that the European growth crisis has many reasons and that one of the reasons might well be the lack of demand; it might be because economic finances have been tightened up so sharply. It is not the only thing I admit, because there are many other things too. But that could be a factor and part of the explanation for the fact that growth is higher in the United States than it is in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133423	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen is right that in this debate we will probably not reach agreement on an economic theory and on what it takes to get the European Union out of the growth crisis we are facing. I do not agree that, in this situation, we should pursue a more relaxed fiscal policy and increase public debt, because in the economic theory which I subscribe to and which the Liberal Alliance subscribes to, public debt is a big part of the problem, especially if we consider it a little longer. What we are doing in Europe now is debting future generations. That is so irresponsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133500	A brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133504	I think there would have been logic in Mrs Christina Egelund's remarks if the United States had had a low debt. That is why I just want to ask whether that is the case. So, if you compare the debts of the United States and Denmark, what is the relationship there? Is it the case that the United States has a particularly low debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133524	The point of comparing the growth rate in Europe with the growth rate in the United States is not that we should pursue the same economic policy as in the United States. The point is to say that in Europe we are in competition with the rest of the world and in that competition Europe is doing worse and worse. In this situation, it is, of course, our responsibility to ensure that a responsible economic policy is pursued and not an irresponsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133552	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133554	Should I understand that what the Liberal Alliance is saying here is that the United States is pursuing an irresponsible economic policy which has led to enormous growth? For everyone knows that the United States has a huge debt, including a huge public debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133613	I do not know whether we should allow this to develop into a debate on the economic policy of the United States. Many decisions have been taken in the United States, particularly during the financial crisis, in relation to their economic policy, with which I disagree from a liberal point of view. What I am dealing with is the competitive situation that Denmark and Europe face in an increasingly globalised world. And there I just disagree with the fact that we in Europe must put in place a more lenient economic policy that increases the debt that is already a huge block on our leg in terms of improving our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133648	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133655	The refugee situation is testing European cooperation to a large extent, and it is indeed an extraordinary situation that requires us to be willing to look at some of the current rules in a new light and to use some new tools. This is also very much the case with the EU's very rigid budgetary rules, where there is a need to make use of the instruments that are possible within the EU's Stability and Growth Pact. The flexibility of the EU's Stability and Growth Pact in relation to exceptional situations, which allow Member States to temporarily deviate from the EU's strict budgetary rules, is precisely such a tool that can help to accommodate refugees properly and deal with this situation properly. So there should be more focus on how we actually invest in the people who come here so that they can take an active part in our society, rather than just seeing them as financial costs. By ensuring a degree of flexibility in relation to the EU's budgetary rules, we can ensure that an economic space is created in the Member States to deal properly with the refugee situation. For the good integration of refugees requires that we invest in people and help them on their way so that they have an opportunity to become part of society. If we do not ensure a degree of flexibility in relation to the EU's budgetary rules, we risk Member States choosing the short-term solution and, for example, cutting in essential welfare services or in development aid in an attempt to meet the EU's very strict budget requirements. And such investments could help to resolve the refugee situation in the long term. So, in the alternative, we can therefore support the motion for a resolution from the SF and we very much hope that the government will work to ensure that we in the European Union can make greater use of flexibility in relation to the budgetary rules, so that it will be more possible for Member States to invest in a future and refugees who come here rather than to suffer other welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133905	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519133914	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is an extraordinary situation which requires exceptional priorities. We do not agree with the priorities set by the government and a political majority; we do not agree that refugee expenditure should be financed with development aid expenditure. In fact, we agree with the authors of the motion. However, as I understand the proposal, it is not simply a question of preventing countries from using development aid for refugees; in fact, it is a question of avoiding that priority at all. Because the proposal does not just say something about development aid, it actually says something about the fact that it is about not having to cut welfare, not having to raise taxes. And then I think we're really a place where we stick people in the eye. For what is the proposal really about? It is about not being and I have to say that I agree with the political majority in Denmark who, after all, have said that we have to give priority. We disagree so much that it is development aid that has to stand up for, or expenditure on the neighbourhood. This seems to us to be an unwise priority that can be revenged in the end. That is how far we agree with the proposers. However, we agree with the political majority that priority needs to be given. I think that this proposal is problematic, because it is a matter for people to face up to, that they do not need to be given priority. But debt is just a matter of priority, because debt has to be repaid at some point. It is a bill that has to be paid, and it is a priority that has to be carried out just not now, but it must then be done at a later stage. But there is the price of debt, which can go beyond economic growth. It can, of course, be, as we have seen in Europe. And the discussion that took place just before between the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and the rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten and SF, who dealt with expansive financial policy, etc., is an interesting discussion to take up. But it should not be based on the refugee crisis, it should be based on the European economy, in order to find out whether there is a need to relax the budget law if we believe that a more expansive financial policy is generally needed. But then it has to be taken there; then it should not be taken by us EU rapporteurs or by the Foreign Affairs rapporteurs for that matter; then it should be taken by the Financial rapporteurs. This is a relevant enough discussion, but it must be taken there; it must not be taken as a starting point in the refugee crisis. For us, it is important that you finance the refugee crisis, yes, and that you do not finance it with development funds. We think that this is a really bad idea, but we also think it would be a really bad idea to start debt, which could lead to increased interest rates and low economic growth in Europe, which could ultimately make it even harder for Europe to make a positive contribution to the refugee crisis. So, despite good intentions, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134216	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134221	That was an interesting speech from the Radical Left here, I have to say. In other words, when it comes to refugee policy, the Radical Left has a very high profile, it has to be said. When you have to finance that expenditure, you have to give priority to it. Development aid must not be given priority. We are in complete agreement on this, and that is what we are giving the opportunity to do here. Well, what's left? And that is what is really tragic in the policy of the Radical Left, because it is the welfare that it is the cohesion of our society, but the Radical Left does not give a damn about it. We are being cut back on welfare as a prerequisite for growth and prosperity, and I do not know what. There was a tirade of various remarks made by the radical rapporteur. But it's the core of this... it's the welfare that needs to be reduced. Well, it's good to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134330	No, but now we actually have the interesting discussion: how should we prioritise? That is what is interesting, and it is, in fact, the discussion which I think the proposers are suggesting that you have to have. We have to have that, and we are happy to take part in it. After all, we are a party in favour of reform because we do not want to cut back on core welfare. That is why we believe in all those labour supply reforms, which I know to be reviled and which are not always nice to carry out. Why are we implementing them? We are implementing them because we do not want to cut back on welfare. And when the Socialist People's Party was in government, they were not sorry to spend that money, I should say hello and say, as we agreed on reforms, in return for spending them on welfare. But I would just like to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: When the debt has to be repaid one day, where is the priority to be given? For that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen is saying right now that it is the debt that has to finance it, but the debt is a bill that you push in front of you. What is it then that one day will have to finance that debt to be repaid? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134431	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134435	I'll explain that later. I'll have the floor a little later. But with regard to the talk about labour supply reforms: yes, it is also a discussion that is going on, but Mrs Zenia Stampe knows very well that it does not solve the acute problem. Just as acutely, we have the problem that the alternative to this is to cut back on development aid. She knows that's the case. And that's where the Radicals just report passports. They will not be involved in a proposal that will prevent you from getting into that terrible choice between refugees and foreign aid. That's the truth of this. Then you have a lot of chrome talk about work offerings, and I don't know what. But the truth is that the Radical Left will not help to solve the acute problem of cutting back on foreign aid in order to finance asylum expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134528	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134531	I'm actually getting a little provoked because SF won't tell you what to give priority to. It is simply so easy to just want to spend the money or say that you want to debt but do not want to tell what it is then that one day has to pay the debt. We in our party have got used to the fact that we are the sort of people who come and point out funding, and then there are some others who want to be involved in spending the money. But it can provoke me a lot. And I just have to ask the question, and that must be a question I ask when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen comes up here: what should we prioritize on the day the debt is due? And do we have a better condition for making that priority if the debt has allowed us to have lower economic growth? I do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134616	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134621	Does the radical rapporteur agree with me that just talking about debt is almost foolish? There are two types of debt. There is the debt that arises because you throw a party and use it loose, and then there is the debt that arises because you invest, and there are two very different things. So does the radical rapporteur not agree with me that simply talking about debt is almost dumb?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134656	I think we need to introduce a third category, because there is where we have a party, there is where we invest, and there is, of course, the debt we create, because we believe that it will be more expensive if we do not invest. We are also talking about this often when we talk about prevention, but there is also a limit to that logic, because if we followed it, we could of course make money by preventing it. Then we would actually make money by preventing health, the refugee crisis and so on. and so on, but that is not the case either. It is not the case that you can make a business investing, and then suddenly money comes in. It may well be that in the long term we mitigate some major bills, that is true, but it is not the case that it suddenly becomes a money store that comes in. That is why the category of debt which Mr. Søren Søndergaard refers to, of course, some limitation. I am in favour of thinking, but it does have the limit that it can never be a real profit business. It is not the case that money enters the state accounts through that channel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134802	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134804	The third category went beyond my understanding and into the priest's, but we'll take it another time. I would just like to say that this also means that Mrs Zenia Stampe agrees that if the European Union and the EU countries had chosen to invest in ensuring that the refugee camps in the neighbourhood had been decent and decent, we would have saved a lot of money at this time from refugee flows that came from there. We'd have saved a lot of money. But you did not, because you were looking at budget requirements and so on. etc. But is it not true that this would have been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134843	Frankly, I do not believe it, because I do not believe that it was the EU's budgetary requirements that led to this. I believe that this is a lack of willingness to make the investments that we saw in my party agree with the Enhedslisten that we should make. I do not think that it was the EU's budgetary rules that meant that money was not posted in the neighbourhoods and so on. I believe that this is a general dislike and a general intimacy in Europe and a general lack of understanding of how it will ultimately avenge itself on us. But I do not think this is a question of the EU's budgetary rules; it is a general question of the European countries' analysis of the problem. And I think that when it comes to this, I agree with the Enhedslisten, I agree with the Socialist People's Party, I agree that it would be worthwhile for us to invest there in the broad sense, but not by putting our economic growth at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134939	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519134959	After all, it is a discussion that has several layers in it and several facets in it. There is general economic policy in Europe over these years, and it is not our view that we should just lose out on budget deficits in the European Union. I think it is reasonable to have attempts to control economic policy in the EU Member States, which is why we are also in favour of the financial pact as a principle. Maybe we think it's pretty tight. After all, this is a discussion that is going on in several European countries and the various European parties. It is whether the slightly Merkelian austerity policy, as it is called, benefits Europe and growth in Europe over these years. We have argued on several occasions that it should be relaxed on the investment side, on the infrastructure side it could be done, and so here too in terms of refugee expenditure. But that does not mean that we are simply giving up completely, as some are trying to give the impression. That is nonsense, and that is not what we are talking about here. This is a temporary matter. It is a question of facing a problem that is pouring across Europe, which needs to be dealt with in a sensible way. That, then, is our starting point. We are in favour of the control of economic policy. We think it is too tight at the moment. With regard to the whole refugee policy, I agree with those who say that this is not the solution to the whole refugee problem. Of course it's not. There are many more things that come into the distribution of refugees, how to get, if I may say so, better dealt with the external borders and how to better treat the refugees and all that. However, it is still a problem, at least in our opinion, that, with the economic pressure on public finances in the EU countries, the very, very unpleasant choice has been made, as Mrs Zenia Stampe very clearly pointed out, that we can cut aid for developing countries, as we do in most countries here too in Denmark; there we have done so too, but where it is so that if we do not do so we will have to cut welfare. Both are bad. For the Radical Left, welfare does not matter, I understand, but we are some who actually believe that the welfare area is important also for the popular understanding of the whole refugee situation. After all, it is very difficult to get a popular understanding that we should welcome these refugees, and the Radical Left has a very, very high profile, it has to be said. There's no limit to how many to take. That people should understand that you shouldn't cut welfare costs... you don't care about the Radical Left. That is very, very interesting and significant. But at least it is a bad choice, and what we can see in these years is that it is the developing countries that are being hit. It is being implemented in more and more countries, and this has long-term implications for poverty-oriented development aid, but also for the long-term management of the refugee problem. That is why we are proposing here that temporary payments be allowed, as well as taking out the costs of the calculation that you make when you have to calculate the deficits under the EU budget rules, so that you do not have to cut back on development aid, the alternative welfare area, because, as I have said, both are poor solutions. Then there are some who make it mean that because you are doing this, growth and employment will suffer for many years to come, and I do not know what. It is reasonable for us in Denmark to do a great deal to control our public budgets, but on the other hand I would also like to say that I know that Keynes is not one that is so much like to be taken forward, so it is not entirely dead anyway, and it is actually reasonable that in some cases, if I may say so, we stimulate the economy by having public budget deficits; on the one hand, it is growth-promoting and, on the other hand, it can solve some political problems in this case. It is true, then, that if it is something that you just do forever, there is a bill that has to be paid, but it is also in economic theory that in periods you can underfinance to get growth going again, provided that you spend money wisely on education, on research, and also that you have an eye on the problem of labour supply. That's what we're talking about. However, the contradiction should not be used to completely ignore, as some people are doing in this Chamber, the importance of saying, in specific cases, as we are proposing here, that this pressure on refugees, the expenditure on refugees that we are facing, must be given the right not to count when it comes to assessing the structural deficits in relation to the European Union. I think it is a pity that there is no more understanding for this, also because the European Commission has a great deal of understanding for the problem. As far as I am aware, an exemption was granted to Italy. At least that is what we are doing. Yesterday a press release was issued recognising that this pressure for refugees is causing very, very great difficulties for the economies of the countries. This means that we are willing to use this derogation scheme in a number of cases, and that is fine, but we would like to say to the Danish Government that it is not necessary to cut so much in aid from the developing countries because of the pressure on refugees, because of the EU's budgetary rules, and that it actually has the opportunity to finance refugee expenditure and to finance responsible aid from the developing countries, and that there will be this temporary relaxation in the budget rules in order to do so. So I still hope that a majority in the Folketing will be aware of the problem, as is the case in a number of other European countries, where we are well aware of the challenge we face here in relation to the whole problem of expenditure on refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519135725	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519135730	Thank you. I hear sir. Holger K. Nielsen talks about financing the cost of the refugee crisis. One can then discuss whether it is really financing that is at stake when it comes to debt. The difference between Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's position and mine are, in fact, just when to finance the refugee crisis, whether it is now that we have to make the difficult priorities, or whether we have to make them, the day we have to pay off the debt. That is why I would just like to repeat the question that I put from the speaking chair of the Folketing before, to which I thought I would be given an answer, namely: what will be the priority, the day the bill is to be paid, the day the debt is to be repaid? What, then, are we going to give priority to? I hear you don't want to raise the tax... it's gonna be Liberal Alliance happy to hear you don't want to cut welfare, you don't want to be involved in reforms. What do you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519135829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519135830	We have not rejected reforms. When I was in government, we then carried out several reforms, and we are still willing to discuss that. We go to negotiations on the Finance Act and have done so year after year and will still do so. There's not much new in it. This isn't about the fact that because you make this relaxation, you suddenly get a huge hole to cover the day after tomorrow. That's not what this is about. It is, after all, an opportunity to finance asylum expenditure in other ways than through cuts in foreign aid and welfare. Then it is true that it will result in a reduction in debt, but we are already in debt. It's not like we're not doing it. Every country does. That's why there's not so much weird about it. The question is the level of what we are then saying: okay, we are so willing to recognise that it may be necessary to absorb a little more public debt in order to be able to finance refugee expenditure in order precisely to prevent the developing countries from suffering. I cannot understand why this should cause so much difficulty for the Radical Left, I have to say, but in other words...
ParlaMint-DK_20160519135948	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519135950	I can tell you why this is causing trouble for me. That is because we are always faced with accusations of being antisocial and so on. And so on, because we really want to take that priority discussion up front instead of what I see as a cowardice, where they say: we want to finance it in other ways. What do other ways mean? This means that it will be financed the day after tomorrow or in a few years' time. In other words, the priority debate will be held in a few years' time with some other politicians. Well, then it's not sir. Holger K. Nielsen, who is going to tell us how to finance the increased costs of the refugee pressure, is then perhaps the ones sitting in the Folketing in 5 years' time, and I just think that is not honest. That is why I am provoked, because we are taking it with the electorate, we are taking it here in Parliament, we are taking it openly, we are not shooting it in front of us and we are letting others take it someday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140039	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140040	Well, that's the way it is with all the expenses, that's the way it is with all the expenses. Foreign aid expenditure, too, is quite the same with that, the cost of education, the cost of everything the Radical Left would like. That is why it is a matter of expenditure which must be very much financed in the years to come and which can be financed by other politicians. There's not much new in it. This isn't as mysterious as the Radical Left is trying to make it sound like it is. This is a temporary relief of two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140119	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140129	I thought it was finally said thank you. I think there is a really interesting debate developing between the SF and the Radical Left, and I very, very much agree with what Mrs Zenia Stampe says, and I am pleased to see that there is a difference in economic policy on the left side of the Chamber. First of all, I would like to address Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's information tells us that Keynes is stone dead. He died on April 21, 1946. Unfortunately, all his thoughts are not entirely dead with him, because this thinking of financing and creating growth by running a deficit on public finances is one of the things that has helped to bring the West into some of the economic crises we have had. When Mr. Holger K. Nielsen himself mentions that there may be a good idea to invest in education and research, even if it leads to large public deficits, because it probably makes itself home in the long run, it shows a little about the great differences that exist in how we expect to finance our welfare society. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140241	Indeed, it shows something about the difference between economic policy and thinking between the bourgeois and us on the left. In fact, we believe that it can make sense to invest in the future and, if necessary, also to borrow loans for it. So do people outside this house. That can be very sensible. In this case, it makes sense to invest in foreign aid in order to prevent more refugees coming in the long term. There can be very good sense in that. But here we disagree, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140320	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140322	[Sound emission]... SF is very, very optimistic, because what you are putting up with here, what you are trying to deceive people, is that if we just for two years, just briefly for two years, just relax a little bit on the borders and then invest in some foreign aid etc., we will have the refugee crisis averted, and then we can pay back on the a little longer track. I'm not that optimistic. But I would like to ask a specific question: how many years do SF think we have to go back before we were in a situation where it did not make sense and where there was no sense in crossing the 3% limit. to invest in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140402	About optimism, we have not said that we will solve the whole refugee crisis through this. I laid particular emphasis on that. This is a little bit of that, you might say. However, I think it is an essential issue, in that, with the strict budgetary rules that exist in all European countries, we run the risk of continuing on a path where foreign aid is being increasingly undermined. The real poverty-oriented assistance in Denmark is now down to approx. 0,3% I would like to make a few comments on this matter. That's what we want to stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140450	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140455	Thank you. I also think, in the same way as the previous questioners, that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is out in something like leaving the water in the briefs, hoping that it will warm up a bit. But then you get pretty cold afterwards. Even though I don't share sir. Jan E. Jørgensen's view of John Maynard Keynes, I must say that I am also not sure that this is Keynes' philosophy, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is exponent for. Maybe it's Karl Marx's and Friedrich Engels', but leave it alone. I am just thinking here: what this is all about in its simplicity is, in fact, that the Socialist People's Party is not willing to give priority, is not willing to say that the consequence of not having a sufficiently strong foreign policy in this country is that we should either spend more money than we have, or that we should cut welfare. What are the Socialist People's Party's proposals on how to stop the influx of migrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140604	Once again, it is a big debate where it is difficult to answer one minute from up here, but it is clear that you have to look at the external borders. We have been willing to look at that too. However, the European Union must also play a greater role in the distribution of refugees. That is why we agree with the policy that the Commission is currently pursuing on the revision of the Dublin Regulation, which will allow refugees to be distributed and countries to be penalised financially if they do not accept them. So, for us, this is very much a problem of distribution within the European Union. I think that Europe can take these refugees. The problem is that they are being very unevenly distributed at the moment, so that is why it is also about that. However, until this is resolved, we believe that there should be a possibility of relaxing the possibilities of cutting aid from the developing countries in order to finance the costs of refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140709	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sorry, there's another one. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140718	It's okay. In fact, I find it fascinating to hear Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that it is the EU that has to take over that responsibility, and then it just goes out there. I really dream back to the good old days of 1992, when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen stood for a slightly more realistic approach to the world. But I understand that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is very concerned about this. I'm just gonna ask sir. Holger K. Nielsen: Is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen agreed with the European Commission's approach to the distribution key, for example. does not take into account how many refugees a country has already taken, but only takes into account the GDP and the number of inhabitants of that country? This means that Denmark must take many, many more than we should if account was taken of how many Denmark has taken over the years. Because we've taken a lot of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140809	I have to admit that I do not remember that key in my head, but it is something that needs to be discussed. Well, that's obvious. For us, it is more important for the principle to be discussed, in other words for a debate to be held on how to distribute the refugees. Then, of course, we can discuss what the criteria for that distribution should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140828	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140842	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 24 May 2016. First, we need a explanatory statement from the rapporteur on the questioners, Mr President. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519140919	Pressure on health care is growing and growing. We see rising costs of more chronic diseases, for example. The prices of pharmaceutical companies are unbearable; and we see political pressure for employees to run faster. And it puts all the health services under massive pressure. On 12 May, 20 000 people demonstrated in 74 municipalities across the country for more welfare and against the planned billion cuts by the government. But the welfare provided to the citizens of the regions is just as important as the welfare demonstrated for 12 May in relation to the welfare of the municipalities, and that is why we have this question debate today. It has been reported at the moment. negotiations are taking place between the government and Danske Regions on an economic agreement for 2017. One of the major problems facing our health services today is that employees must run stronger and stronger in order for budgets to be coherent. Not only does it push the working environment to the utmost, but it also pushes the quality of the treatment and ultimately hits patients. It is time to wake up to politicians who insist that the bill should be sent to the employees of the country's hospitals and thus ultimately to patients. The pressure is now so great in the health system that it can no longer be concealed, and therefore Danske Regioner's management and government must take responsibility for not increasing the pressure further. It should be a bottom-up task for the negotiators to ensure, during the negotiations on the 2017 Economic Agreement, that the economy of the regions is not further burdened if they are given new tasks. So the purpose of this debate is to continue the pressure on the government so that a good economic agreement is reached between the government and Danske Regions. And such an agreement must be understood in particular as an agreement that will put an end to the fact that budgets can only be linked if employees are constantly to run stronger and stronger, and an agreement that will ensure that the economy is not burdened further if the regions are given new tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519141147	Thank you for your explanatory statement and I give the floor to the Minister for Finance for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519141211	Last week I had the opportunity to explain the economic situation in the municipalities twice on the same day. It was in connection with the debate on the motion for a resolution B 89 tabled by the Socialists and Question No F 30 tabled by the Enhedslisten. Now the Enhedslisten has asked me to explain the economic situation in the regions, and that is why some of the facts I will explain today will be known material. Let me start with the general economic framework. Last time we decided on the fiscal scope, in September 2015, there were more than 15 billion. kr. Towards 2020. Since then, structural revenue from the North Sea has been downgraded by 5 billion. kr., and that is why we have now had to reduce the economic scope over the next four years to 10 billion. kr. Overall, this means that we have less money to do well in the public economy than we had in the past. From a historical perspective, we have limited room for manoeuvre. Overall, the structural revenues from the North Sea since 2013, i.e. in just 3 years, have fallen by just under 20 billion. kr. This represents almost half of the annual expenditure on primary school. Thus, the situation is quite different from that of the previous government. At the same time, the influx of refugees and migrants means that the pressure of expenditure within the scope will increase in the coming years. This increases the need for sharp priorities, just as there is a need to look at whether a number of public tasks cannot be solved smarter so that you get more money. In other words, we have a common challenge in developing our welfare societies at a time when strict financial frameworks are a basic condition. There is therefore a need for us to ensure, together, sustainable development in the public sector and to ensure that the money is given priority in the areas where it is most beneficial to the Danes. Health is a high priority for the government. That is why health has already been lifted very significantly during this period of government. For 2016, i.e. this year, health has received an extraordinary boost of 2.4 billion. kr. with the 2016 Economic Agreement and the 2016 Finance Act. In addition, funds have already been set aside for the further increase in the regions by over 300 million. kr. in 2017. In the regional health field, only administration is subject to the re-prioritisation contribution. This should be seen in the light of the fact that health is subject to a requirement for productivity improvements of 2%. annual. Productivity improvements have been brought back to the regions as a new activity. The significant boost in 2016 and 2017 ensures a solid regional economy also in 2017. In addition, the government will present a cancer plan IV in the autumn. I am convinced that the public sector can continue to do things smarter by learning from each other, by digitalising, by putting on more tasks for competition, etc. As I said last week, and as I have said many times before, I basically do not buy the premise that great efficiency gains cannot continue to be realised in the public sector. This is true in the state and in the municipalities, as is the case in the regions. The health promises in 2016 and 2017 should therefore be seen in the context of the fact that in several areas there are major efficiency potentials in the regions. In fact, health is a good example of how things can be done more effectively. For many years hospitals have been subject to a productivity requirement of 2%, which has been delivered, even well. At the same time, it can be observed that if you look at regions and hospitals across the board, there is still a considerable spread in productivity. This indicates that there remains a potential for efficiency by learning from each other. Here I would also like to note that in 2015 the Reichsaudit came up with a report, which among other things. concluded that hospitals can support more cost-effective use of resources. Among other things, it could. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done. If you look a little further in the future, a number of the new hospital buildings will be completed in the coming years. This means great additional efficiency gains because the new constructions make it possible to organise patients' treatment much better for the benefit of both patients and the economy. The benefits will be realized in the coming years and will be reflected in the priorities for health policy. Another area I want to round today is the area of medicine, which has filled a lot in the media over the past year. Although the cost of medicines has increased significantly in 2015, the exceptionally high expenditure increases that were promoted in the media last spring have remained unchanged. In addition, a number of measures have been taken which will help to reduce the prices of hospital medicine. Firstly, the government and Danske Regions have concluded a new agreement with the Pharmaceutical Industry Association to reduce list prices in hospital medicines. The agreement runs for three years and is the best deal so far. Secondly, all parties in the Folketing are behind a number of general principles for prioritising hospital medicine. The principles act among other things. on the rapid entry into service of new effective medicines, equal access to treatment and more money's health. In addition, the Danish Regions have decided to introduce a new model for the evaluation of medicinal products, such as: must ensure that the regions are stronger in negotiating discounts on medicinal products. Overall, therefore, a number of measures are being taken to reduce the growth of expenditure in the field of medicine in the coming years. Let me turn my eyes to the investment area. Once again, this is a known substance, but it is still relevant and important to outline the overall framework for public investment. Public investment has been historically high in recent years. The high level of investment has supported growth and employment during the economic crisis. As growth increases, the level of public investment needs to be normalised. It is in line with sound stabilisation policy that relaxations in the recession are matched by corresponding austerity when the business cycle improves. In the coming years, therefore, public investment will have to normalise at the level of the level financed. In the regions, investment in these years is marked by the construction of the new super hospitals. This is a total investment of over 45 billion. kr. Most of the total of 16 construction projects are now in progress and are being completed continuously in the coming years, most in the years around 2019-2020, and the last in the years 2022-2024. Construction is a high priority, which is why the regional construction framework has gradually been lifted in recent years to a now historically high level of around 7 billion. kr. annual. By comparison, the level was 2-3 billion. kr. in the last years of the counties and in the first years of the region. The high level of government is ready to continue for 2017 too, focusing on ensuring the realisation of the large hospital buildings. The government prioritises health and, with the 2016 Economic Agreement and the 2016 Finance Act, has ensured a solid basis for the regions' economy. At the same time, the levels of investment in the regions are historically high these years due to the construction of the new hospitals around the country. Although health is a priority, it is important that all parts of the public sector continue to make a significant impact in the coming years, because at a time of tight financial frameworks it is essential that we continue to get more out of taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142156	Thank you for your answer. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list. We must first have the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142226	Normally, the agreement on the economy of the regions does not attract much attention, and that is actually a pity. For example, the agreement has been signed. It is important for us as people who take advantage of health care. The agreement is of central importance to the working conditions of employees and thus to the ability of employees to offer us the most optimal help when we need help. With this question debate, we want to highlight the major problems of the economic agreements as they have been adopted over the past many years and which the government basically wants to continue with in 2017. The government will also have just heard the Minister of Finance stand and say that the level of capital investment will be reduced in 2017. We think it's unwise. Normalisation, as the Minister of Finance calls it, is not wise. Regions must have the opportunity to spend the money they need, to invest in the best possible health care, to invest in the latest technology. In relation to pharmaceutical prices, the cost of rising pharmaceutical prices is something for which the regions must be fully compensated. If that does not happen, then the money must be found through cuts in staff and care for patients. I can't let that happen. The rise in prices is, after all, largely the result of large profits from pharmaceutical companies, which are making huge profits with money. It is also good, therefore, that all parties in the Folketing have agreed on seven principles for prioritising hospital medicine. It is good and important that we now have a better negotiating position with the pharmaceutical industry. We simply have to go hard to the pharmaceutical industry and their huge profits. This is something we simply have to follow very closely from Christiansborg. After all, the major problem with the conclusion of a future economic agreement for 2017 in the regions is that the budgets are only linked if employees are to run even faster again. There is a productivity regime in health care. When changing governments repeatedly force employees to run stronger, then it hits both patients and staff. This applies to employees who go down with stress and inpatients, for example. Don't get changed bedding. Since the beginning of the '00s, it has been established that the counties and since the regions have been required to increase their activity in hospitals without the money being included. This is what is commonly called the productivity requirement. Since the mid-00's, the demand has been that hospitals should deliver productivity growth of 2% each year. compared to the previous year. This requirement, if addressed to the government, will also be included in the forthcoming economic agreement for the regions for 2017. The productivity requirement sends the bill for several treatments to nurses, doctors and other health professionals who need to run stronger, even stronger. This does not allow them to provide the optimal treatment of patients, of us, and it not only pushes the working environment to the utmost, but it also pushes the quality of the treatment and therefore, as I said, ultimately affects patients. Overall, today we are faced with a health service that cannot be pressed anymore. The consequences of the twisted pace of hospital passages can be difficult to see if you look at the economy of hospitals through a spreadsheet in the Ministry of Finance. Because the number of employees in the country's hospitals is growing, although productivity requirements apply year after year, but you look at the number of tasks that employees, also new employees who have been employed, have to solve, then they grow at a much higher rate. There is therefore nothing to say about employees in the country's hospitals reporting an increasing deterioration in the working environment. Thus, 51 per cent replied. of 2,000 members of the Danish Nursing Council in 2015 in a survey that they experience that the opportunity to solve the core task at a professionally sound level is often or always under pressure. As productivity is forced up, the risk of errors is also increased, and according to the Patient Offers, the number of reported adverse events has increased from approx. 20,000 in 2008 to a total of 49,000 in 2014. It is therefore time for a new approach to health care, and I will therefore read out on behalf of Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF, which are different parties with different opinions on health policy, but which have joined together on a proposal for adoption, the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government in the negotiations with Danske Regions on the region's economy for 2017 to conclude an agreement with Danske Regions, where the economy of the regions as a whole will not be further burdened if they are given new tasks. • V 70).
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142800	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142804	I was just in to check it out. The Enhedslisten was founded in 1989 and has therefore been in existence for 27 years. If my memory does not fail me, Enhedslisten has every year thought that the public employees should run faster that year than in the previous year, including the public employees in the hospital service every year running faster in the current year than the previous year. That is to say, we have had 27 years of constantly faster races in the public sector, including in health care. - Sir... Rune Lund confirms that it has been Enhedslisten's view throughout Enhedslisten's history that the public employees have run faster each year than the previous year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142845	I can confirm that what we have also experienced over time as a major and fundamental problem in the health sector is not that we are making efficiency or making things smarter or investing in new technology, which means that we can treat people more quickly and thus free up resources to improve health care overall, but that, over the years, the strategy has basically built on a premise that budgets have not been able to hang together unless employees were made to run much stronger. I have to say that we are now in a situation where it should be obvious, even for the Liberal Alliance, that the health workers in this country are so pressured that it is not possible to tighten the screw further in order to demand productivity, improvements that have been created by the fact that employees have to run stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142938	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519142940	And this has also been said every year in Enhedslisten's history, i.e. that it had now reached the end of how fast one could run in the public sector. Nevertheless, the following year it was felt that they were still running faster in the public sector. I just want to hear something: was the starting point in 1989 at Enhedslisten's foundation that the public employees were extremely slow at that time, since every year since they have succeeded in increasing their pace, or is it the case that the public employees today have the same speed as Usain Bolt?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143014	I think, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, first of all, must acknowledge that the hospitals today have a problem in relation to the staff running too fast and cannot make things stick together. And I would also like to say that, of course, historically, and I stand by that, and I am proud of it, we have said that we need to be made more efficient, and if things are to be made smarter, the room for manoeuvre or the amount that is released when things are made smarter must go back to the hospitals. It should not be the case that budgets can only be linked by making employees run stronger. I believe that this strategy has been fundamentally flawed, and I believe it is the strategy that has led us to have a health service now that cannot be pushed any further. In this way, Enhedslisten has been right from the outset in not having to pursue a strategy which has basically built on a wrong premise and which has not had the right approach to how, in a sensible way, with people and employees at the centre, a more efficient public sector could be created.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143113	There are still two brief comments to make, and the first is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143120	Thank you. When I listened to the rapporteur's speech and heard the basis for this, I thought: what does the rapporteur really want to say? What I am left with is that the rapporteur does not think that the health care workers in the hospitals in the regions do a good job; they do, for example, reach. Not changing the sheets, they're not doing it good enough out there. Is this really what this question is about to end with the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten standing and reproaching the staff here from the parliamentary platform and telling them that the work they are doing and are going to do for the citizens is simply not good enough? Is that what the rapporteur wants to say? Because that is at least how it became very clear to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143201	Well, I have to say, sir. René Christensen has not listened very well. What I am saying here, and what I think was very clear, is that a political majority in Christiansborg, including the Danish People's Party, has for years not provided the right framework for the health service staff to deliver the optimal performance and that we have now reached a situation where the pressure of work is so high for employees that it not only affects the employees, but also has a direct impact on patients, because patients are not being offered the best possible treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143240	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143242	Thank you for the rapporteur's confirmation that this is what we believe, that is to say that the staff cannot give the treatment requested. So we do not agree with that. Of course there are a few examples, but we look at the number of patients who go through the Danish healthcare system, and we look at what quality it is that is being delivered. It may well be that we in the Danish People's Party are critical of the regions, but when you look at health care, which is what the regions are supposed to provide, you see that they actually deliver high-quality health and indeed also at a relatively reasonable price. I just think it is a pity that we can discuss the economic situation of the regions, and that is also what we need to do, and we would really like to discuss it in the Danish People's Party if this discussion is to fall back on the employees because they cannot deliver. We in the Danish People's Party believe that health workers deliver a super good product every day and actually do so to the best of their ability.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143338	The problem is, of course, that health care is linked only because of the employees; it is not because a political majority, including the Danish People's Party, has made enormously sensible political agreements or created an enormously sensible financial framework for health care. On the contrary, it requires, precisely in order for the whole thing to be linked, that we have the healthcare workers that we have, but who do not have the right framework to provide the best possible treatment for patients. That is the problem here. So the problem is a political problem which lies here with a majority in Christiansborg. This has nothing to do with the employees who work hard every day to make ends that can barely hang together hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143420	The next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143424	Well, I quite agree with Mr. Knox. Rune Lund in that health care is connected only because of the employees, it would be difficult other. But it is really a little strange to have to hear this criticism from the Enhedslisten, because it is probably only about 10 months ago that Enhedslisten sat with the crucial mandates of the then government. What did you do about that? Apparently and apparently nothing, when we now here 10 months later have to listen to a very, very • according to my assessment • barren criticism. For Mr. Rune Lund says that the productivity that has been achieved and the progress that has been made in the regions and in health care should be channelled back to health care if necessary. That's what Enhedslisten thinks. That is what the Left believes, and that is what has happened just to make it clear. Then there's the speed, that's how fast you have to run. My question is whether Mr. Rune Lund does not agree with me that it is not just a question of the speed at which you run, that is, the speed at which you have to run faster and faster. It's good if you go the wrong way, you run faster. On the contrary, we should stop and perhaps think about what we are really doing. In other words, it is not also about the management that is in the individual departments of hospitals, etc.; how to get the work organized; how to learn from each other; how to get the professional pride and experience and skills of the employees as much as possible into play, more than just talking about the fact that now you have run faster, but still not solve the task that you should according to Enhedslisten? I guess it's about how to run or walk and get the job done as well as possible. It's not just a matter of speed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143555	It is true that it is about what you do, but it is also about whether what you do is the right thing to do. It's about management. It's about the training of employees. It's about having the right employee composition. It's about the organization. It's about a lot of things. But it is also about economics. And if we are to address the economic agreements for the regions that were concluded under the former S-led government, it was of course some economic agreements which Enhedslisten did not vote for, but which the previous government made together with the bourgeois party, including the questioner's party. So we have not been able to prevent a social democratic government from making accidents when that government wants to make agreements with the bourgeois. But at least we have always been clear about what we mean. As far as the financial framework is concerned, I think that I lack a total recognition from the questioner that the financial framework actually means something for the possibility of doing a job. I read in my rapporteur's speech that 2,000 members of the Danish Nursing Council had been asked in 2015 and it turned out that 51 per cent. experience that the ability to solve the core task at a professionally sound level is often or always under pressure. It is a signal to me that something is wrong and that there is something we need to do about it. It has nothing to do with talking ugly about the employees, on the contrary. It is a question of saying that, from a political point of view, we simply need to do something more to give employees proper working conditions so that they can provide an optimal service to those of us who live in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143721	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143724	As weird as that sounds, I kind of agree with much of what Mr. Rune Lund here says that it is of course also about financial frameworks. Then Mr. Rune Lund on why we don't want to acknowledge it. Well, at least we recognize that. I can just knock down this year's Finance Act. That is precisely where we recognise the need for an economic boost. This is among other things. That is why we have made a re-prioritisation contribution in which we can then give priority to some funds in the direction of health care. 2.4 billion kr. it has been given as a boost with the Finance Act. So we acknowledge that. But I think it is also about more than just talking barren economy. It is also a matter of not just running and not always running, of course, but, figuratively speaking, you do so faster and faster. But it may be in the wrong direction. I guess it's also about the way you organize yourself. We can see very, very large differences from department to department, from hospital to hospital. In some places you have been very good at it, and elsewhere you might learn to be a little better than the way you organize yourself, and thus what you get out of the funds and not least the skilled employees who are in the individual departments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143822	The questioner may say so. But if you ask the employees, they say all the time: the 2-percent requirement, the productivity increase requirement, it pushes us crazy. We can't run any stronger. We agree that efficiency needs to be made, that we need to make things smarter, that we need to invest in new technology to make things better. However, when part of the productivity increase again this year, i.e. in 2016, but also, as has been proposed in 2017, is to be found by the fact that employees who already find it extremely difficult to get the ends to meet are required to run even stronger, then we are in a situation where things simply are not connected, understood in the sense that it is a political problem that the right conditions have not been given for employees to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143912	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments to this rapporteur. Before I give the floor to the next rapporteur, I would just like to point out that we still have a lot of matters to do, so it would be very helpful for anyone who sits here in the chair if speaking time were to be kept a little better than has been done in the last half hour. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519143940	Thank you, President. I should like to begin by thanking both the authors and also the Minister, the questioners, for taking this debate on the regions and their economy, and the Minister for his introductory statement on the question debate. And I would like to thank Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party for this very precise formulation of the question of employees, because I think it is quite crucial to point out that the employees in the health service are doing a great and extremely important job. We must not do so in a debate such as this one today. I would like to emphasise this point. Then I would also like to congratulate Mr. Rune Lund to point out that I do not remember the precise wording, but the wording was in the direction of too little attention being paid to the economy of the regions, and the rapporteur found this to be rather sad. In fact, I would like to go further and say that it is sad that the extremely important work that the regions are doing does not call for more attention in the population at all. That is why it is good that we have a debate like this today, even if you have to say that when you look around among the audience, that is not what you would call a sold-out show. I also note that there is no one in the press gallery at all, and one can of course mourn a little, given how important a part of the welfare system is that we have a health service that works properly. On the whole, we Social Democrats believe that regions and other public bodies must be continually made more efficient so that we can continue to ensure a level of welfare of the highest class, but we have also always said that it is essential that we provide both regions and municipalities with the right tools to make them more efficient. In this way, we can provide security for the budgets of our hospitals and health services for a number of years to come, so that the efficiency can be planned in good time. For example, it could be a question of ensuring that the number of cancelled operations is minimised as a result of the fact that people going to outpatient care are not on time, for example not being cancelled. At least that's what it is for now to follow, sir. Rune Lund's logic, not an efficiency that requires some to run faster, but that there are some who are not disappointed that the work they had prepared for cannot be carried out. I also think that when we have a debate like that on the economy of the regions, we also need to focus on the framework itself. We Social Democrats want to maintain the Danish regional health service. For us, there is more perspective in discussing how to strengthen the regions than how to dismantle them. Instead of closing down the regions, we must strengthen and develop them so that they are even better equipped to run our hospitals. It is our view that the regions are an important, democratic, political link that strengthens and secures local democracy. This gives citizens, whether on Bornholm or in Kolding, safety and influence on their health, and therefore we believe that decisions about our hospitals should be taken by politicians with local insight and local understanding. That is why we also believe, although it is not directly about the question we are dealing with here, that the government owes a final answer to whether they still want to restructure the regions with which they have previously made progress. We believe that we must give the workers in the regions of the country peace of mind so that they can carry out the important tasks in the country's hospitals, for example with young criminals. This is absolutely crucial for Denmark. Then I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, the government's actions have been devoid of priority for preventive action, which is also very important in terms of forward-looking work. It is clear that we could have had a long health debate on this question, but as long as we are working with the overall economy, I would just like to point out that challenge. In conclusion, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. It is a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Radical Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, and it reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has opened negotiations with Danske Regions on the financial framework of the regions for 2017, and calls for the regions' financial framework to be established within the framework of a responsible economic policy. • V 71).
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144500	Thank you. And right now there is a sign for short remarks. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144508	I would like to ask about the productivity increase requirement and what the Socialists' position is on this today in the Chamber. For an example of what this entails, is the video 50 midwives made over 12 days in October last year showing what it's like to work as a midwife. They made a video that's a complete horror to see where it, among other things. One midwife said that we have been busy today, and so I had to postpone the launch of a woman who has had water discharge for more than 24 hours. Does the rapporteur not think that workers are running so fast today that it is a problem to ask them to run even stronger?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144601	Now Mr. Rune Lund is a concrete example. It is no secret that the previous government had chosen to give priority to increasing resources to that very area. Unfortunately, in the actual implementation of the agreement entered into by the government, precisely the area that Mr. Rune Lund highlights. This is certainly a very good example of policy being not only a question of the framework, but also of who sits at the top of the table and directs the specific priorities. So, in the time of the previous government, that priority had been different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144650	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144653	I agree with the latter. But I can give you other examples. Yesterday there was an article in Jyllands-Posten. It concerns a specialist in lung medicine Pia Holland Gjørup, who has taken the consequence of the great work pressure and chose to resign his position at the Hospital Unit West in Holstebro. She has done so for the following reasons: "Every time I go home from work on time, there are some tasks that are not solved. And my great fear is that one day among the many, many blood tests there is one that I should have seen, one that I should have followed up on, but which I did not reach. This is one example of what happens when you run too fast. Isn't it? I would like to ask the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144735	But it is also an example of the fact that in many areas, for example, there will be technological solutions to help carry out more, for example, blood tests. This is certainly a good example in an area where, without being an expert on blood tests, I know, however, that technology and automation enable analyses to be carried out much faster and much more efficiently than previously. I guess that's the point. Effectiveness is not necessarily the same as running faster. It could also be that resources are used more optimally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144813	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144816	Thank you. I would like to continue a little along the same lines, because I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that when you raise a completely firm, rigid demand for productivity, an increase in efficiency of 2%. A year, it will have consequences. We can see that there are 51 per cent. the nurses, who state that they are unable to perform their duties at a professionally satisfactory level. When we find that they have to deliver 30%. In the same time as ten years ago, it is also a sign of development. When we find that the number of re-hospitals is increasing because in some cases patients who are discharged from hospitals have not been completed, i.e. in the case of elderly medical patients, it is likely that there is extremely high pressure. Could the Socialists not then agree that instead of making a firm claim to 2% increase in efficiency every year, one could look at: are there some areas where there is a need? Is it necessary to make such a strict requirement? It is possible, then, that there are some places where you can do better where it is possible to deliver the same in a more efficient way, but would it not be better to add it to the staff so that the staff also gained a greater understanding of having codecision over their own circumstances?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519144935	In fact, I have some doubts as to whether this issue should be understood in such a way that Enhedslisten recognises or does not recognise that there is an opportunity to make efficiency improvements. Immediately, as I heard, it actually sounds as if we recognise that there are areas where we can do things more effectively than we do today. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145003	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145005	Yeah, I can confirm that. There are areas, in terms of technological development, where there are areas where more effective treatment can be done. The problem today is that this is not what you measure from. What is being measured is that a firm demand is being made that staff should run faster, that they should do more, whether there are technological solutions or whether things can be organised better. That is, of course, the whole problem, namely that the working conditions of employees are not taken seriously and that they are not co-determine, in relation to what efficiency can be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145039	One thing can certainly be absolutely certain, and that is that if, in that process, you do not also have a political decision-making process that is relatively close to the functions where it takes place relatively close to the citizens, then there will certainly be an even greater degree of rigidity in this. That is why, in fact, it is a very good example of why the regions should not be abolished and that it should be replaced by professional boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145126	Thank you. F 31 raises the question of the economic situation in the regions for 2017 onwards. It is an interesting subject and, of course, the health that is going to fill a lot. I would like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we are very sorry about the approach that Enhedslisten has from up here and which was also very expressed in the rapporteur's speech, i.e. the fact that employees provide a poor service to citizens who are frequenting hospital services in Denmark. We simply do not agree with that analysis. In fact, we believe that the employees are the largest and best resource in the regions, and we would actually like to sign for, including here from Parliament's platform, that they are doing a fantastic job every day. When we talk about the economy of the regions, I would like to say that we could spread it somewhat more, instead of using our speaking time to say how bad things are out there. We could also talk about what kind of tasks the regions actually have. In the Danish People's Party, we are critical of the regions, but we must also recognise that the regions have done a good job in terms of health care. But what you can also see about the economic framework is that the regions have begun to spread violently, in relation to what tasks they are working on. There are quite large cultural pools, and there have been many areas of growth where the regions have taken on some tasks which, in our view, should not lie in the regions. We also find this discussion quite interesting when it comes to the regions' economy for 2017 and beyond. What kind of tasks are these? What really is the core task for the regions when we are now, unfortunately, operating with three systems, that is, state, regions and municipalities? What the other rapporteurs have said has been very much about health care. But what we think should also be noticed when you look at what happened in relation to the 2016 agreement is what Bent Hansen, the president of the regions, was out to say afterwards, because he was actually very pleased with the agreement that was made with the government for 2016. It should also be borne in mind that when there is talk of introducing a re-prioritisation contribution, it is in fact better in relation to administrative costs in the regions. For there is no doubt that the regions have been able to implement the move from counties to regions. It must also be said that when we look at what they get from operations for the funds available, even though the funds are increased, they do quite well. We must also welcome the agreement on pharmaceutical prices that was made, which actually goes on for three years. That's what filled a lot. And that was among other things. also for this reason, additional money was put into the 2016 Finance Act precisely for the regions • 2.4 billion. kr. extra and it was also about the medicine prices. And then we should welcome the agreement that was made, yes, one can even, if one can quote Bent Hansen, cheer over the fact that the prices of medicines had now actually been controlled for a number of years to come. And it is also real human money that you get there when you sort out what it is for a medical expense that comes forward. Then I could also understand on the Enhedslisten that there one should go in and look at these bandits who sell medicine, and what it is then for a proceeds they get out of it that one should go a lot into it. You just have to remember one thing, and that is that they are also the ones who are developing the medicine. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber, probably also not Enhedslisten, who would be without research into medicine. And there is no doubt that it costs a great deal of money. And then there's nothing to say about that medicine in the first few years being expensive. If it were the case that it was not possible to make money from medicine, then there would probably not be many people who would do research on it, i.e. if it were not a proper business case. And then there is only one loser, and we are citizens who can find ourselves in a situation where we need medicine, but where it is not there. So I think that discussion is quite different. Then, of course, we also welcome the fact that prices cannot fly to heaven and that a very good deal has now actually been made. And I can only mention Bent Hansen, who has far more control over medicine prices than I have, and when, with his long experience, he rejoices at the agreement, that is to say that prices have been reduced by 10%. Over a number of years, I believe in it. He does not usually be a man who so cheers unsolicited, let alone on television, in relation to whether agreements are good or bad. So our approach to the discussion today is that the regions are actually doing a very good job and that is what employees in particular are doing. However, we would like to discuss what tasks the regions must have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145600	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145607	The rapporteur would like to talk about employees doing well. I agree with that. However, I do not think the rapporteur at all recognises that the framework that employees have for carrying out their work is currently not satisfactory and that it has an impact on quality. In a survey conducted by the Danish Nursing Council among its members in 2015, a total of 82 per cent replied. of the over 750 nurses surveyed that they have experienced within the last month that citizens have been discharged from hospital to their own home before and that is according to the individual's assessment. Is this not one of many examples of the fact that we have a health service that is not linked, in the sense that politically, employees have not been given the optimum conditions to provide the best service to the citizens? The employees want to, but they can't René Christensen realize that the framework that a majority in here is willing to provide isn't good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145721	I'm not gonna make myself a doctor. It's not like it's the nurses who print the patients. It's the doctors who do it. And I don't have medical competence to tell you whether patients are being discharged prematurely or not. I'm not going to make myself a judge of that. I just want to say, in relation to the framework, that now you are addressing these things about the discharge of patients, but I think there are other areas that are actually much more interesting. That is, for example, the case. Psychiatry area. There we have seen that there are some pretty big challenges, among others. with fewer beds and more. We think this is a very important discussion in the Danish People's Party. I mean, these discussions that you're trying to take up here, I think that's kind of fluttering. There are also challenges in this system... we acknowledge that... but shouldn't you identify them a little rather than go after everything and see if the employees can play their part? In fact, we believe that the employees are doing a very good job and that they are fulfilling their role.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145812	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145814	When the employees themselves say in such a study from the Danish Nursing Council that there are serious problems in that people are being discharged from the hospital, even if they are not finished, then that is something that you have to deal with. Part of the purpose of this debate today is, of course, to show, with concrete examples from the well-being of reality, that it is important if we do not provide the right framework from a political point of view. Then Mr. René Christensen at least does not recognise that nurses themselves say that there are problems in providing the optimal service to citizens because the framework is simply not there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145852	If you're going to do a survey on when patients are going to be discharged, then you have to ask the doctors who print the patients, so I suppose that's the way it must be. It is quite fair that a very small group has replied. I think it was 750 who had been asked, and some of them had the answer. It is the case that I cannot in any way enter the medical section here from Parliament's platform. I just want to say that it's the doctors who print the patients to their own home or to the municipality. And I would like to say that, in this way, we also have a completely different challenge: how the municipalities sometimes receive these patients. I think that is also an important agenda. It is not because there are some agendas that are not important in this, but just the exact situation that is being mentioned here, I find it very difficult to comment, as it is the doctors who print patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145938	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519145940	Thank you. Now I understand from the rapporteur that he is very concerned about the conditions of employees, and I think that is very positive. Now it is not so long ago that we had some examples from Odense University Hospital, where some employees had broken down crying, and some had to work up to 18 hours in a row. In fact, the Factory Inspectorate considered making an immediate demand at the workplace because working conditions were as pressured as they were. It has already been mentioned here that the previous government set aside 75 million. kr. The Danish People's Party has joined the government and has cut it down to 50 million per year. kr. a year. If the Danish People's Party and Mr. René Christensen cares so much about the conditions of his employees, why does Mr. René Christensen saw them getting better working conditions by cutting further in an area that is so pressured?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150042	I can just say that with the agreement made with the regions for 2016, 2.4 billion was added. kr. to the regions. That is a fact and, in relation to the agreement that was made and the things Bent Hansen said after that agreement, one must say that he was well satisfied. He got a little less than he would have liked, but, as he said, it was a really, really good agreement, also for the regions. I think it should also be recognised when two parties meet and make an agreement. And when both parties think that a good agreement has been reached, as the regions did, because they were given significant extra funds, we are, of course, very pleased that we succeeded in the first Finance Act, of which we were part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150123	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150125	Now it is not so much Bent Hansen's relationship that I care about. That is, in fact, more the work force, and that is also what the rapporteur said earlier. And when we hear what the reality is like in the healthcare system, it sounds like both the hospital patients and the employees are hearing that a fabulous good work is being done. But they're just experiencing that they're pushed beyond reasonableness. And it's both when you ask the employees and the patients. Will the rapporteur not accept that the only way to solve this problem, whatever the rapporteur and Bent Hansen think is a good solution, is to provide more funds? This shows that there is a lack of resources in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150211	2.4 billion kr. We in the Danish People's Party think that we are relatively much money. And, of course, that is also why the President of the regions who negotiated it is satisfied that they have received such a large amount of money. There is no doubt, then, that it is also the regions that must be involved in distributing the funds, of course within the framework that exists. In fact, part of the funds are also targeted at the cancer sector and so on. etc., and this is done in the regions. I do not think anyone is sitting in the Chamber today and having a picture of the regions for the year 2017, and the question is of course about the future. There has been a significant boost in the regions to health.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150251	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150304	Thank you. As you know, the Kingdom lacks money and priority must be given to all areas. And that is why it is really gratifying, it can be said that we then start with the question debate which I would like to acknowledge for the fact that Enhedslisten has just raised the fact that with this government and, incidentally, the broad majority of the Folketing there is a huge priority towards the regions and thus the core task of the regions, which is health. As several speakers have said, the 2016 Finance Act has helped to increase the appropriations by a total of 2.4 billion. DKK, something of which was above the Finance Act... The Enhedslisten could be noted in parentheses, since they served as a parliamentary basis, had exercised influence and something comes from the regional agreements. But it is a total of 2.4 billion. kr. in 2016, and we actually think that in these difficult economic times is really great. That is why it is also important for us to have a look at what we get out of the money. Because we are of the opinion that that is the view I am somewhat in agreement with, Mr President. Rune Lund in If something doesn't work, the answer isn't necessarily just to say: Send more money. Then you will have to find out how to repair the framework and with a framework I mean not only the financial framework, but also the framework under which you work. This concerns the ways in which work is organized, including, of course, a huge responsibility for the individual management in the hospitals, both on the main lines where we can then hope that our good colleague Mr. Jonas Dahl will make a difference when he gets out soon and has to work on these things, and in this way we can at least say that the Folketing makes a difference but also with regard to the framework for the individual work areas in the individual departments. It is also a little strange, of course, that in the criticism it is at least the criticism that I heard that Mr. Rune Lund traveled almost sounds as if the health is completely starved financially. At any rate, we are now in a period when, despite the difficult economic times, there are historically large budgets. But again I would say that it is not for us an end in itself to increase budgets to some level; for us it is crucial that what we get out of it, including the conditions that the individual employees have worked during the period, is the best possible. That is why, of course, it is also important that people in the health sector, in the individual areas, learn from each other and organise things appropriately. And of course, some of the frameworks can be made available from here, among other things. the agreement, which has also been mentioned by several people, to have a system now in relation to the cost of medicines. It is, of course, a fairly important cost factor, and this has now been dealt with. It may also be asked what this means that the regions have now increased their productivity by over 2%. I actually think that's really nice. I think that's 2.7 per cent. or something like that, on average over the last several years. Is it only because the employees are running faster and faster? Yeah, of course that's some of it. But I think, according to the discussion I had with Mr. Rune Lund a little while ago, yes, it's not just about telling the employees: Now you have to run faster, and next year you have to run 2%. Faster again. It is also a question of ensuring that they sow, if I may say so, running in the right direction and making the most of their professional skills, so that the skills they have acquired and the experience they have are brought into play as much as possible. I think that is an important point, so we do not have this frivolous discussion that because, despite the historically large budgets, it is still not optimal, the historically large budgets need to be increased further. When we talk about the framework, I would also like to say that we are now in a period in which we actually have historic investments on the construction side, that is to say the super-sickhouses that come around the country, emergency hospitals, health centres etc., which are part of, it can be said, the new organisation or the new structure for health. And it is, as I see it, a huge investment in precisely ensuring a better framework, that is, a better professional framework for employees, for management, for the individual nurse, for the individual doctor, for the individual porter, etc. All the people who work with these things are now getting a huge boost, compared to their working conditions, when these hospitals get done in a few years' time, being done as good as possible. I think that should also be welcomed in this context. So I am delighted at the fact that, in fact, on the part of the Danish Parliament and, of course, not least on the part of the current government, with a good majority in our backs, we are giving priority to this area, despite the fact that we have difficult economic times in terms of both the construction side and the framework in relation to the drivers of expenditure, one can say in terms of new Danish, i.e. medical costs as one of the most important areas, and of course also in terms of the overall financial framework; this is indeed a priority as one of the priorities. I think we can be familiar with that. And then I think we should again sign for the work that is being done by the employees. They run fast, and they do a good job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150819	Thank you. There are, again, two inscribed for short remarks, and the first is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150827	That is true: they run fast and they do a good job; without them it would not work at all. However, if we grab hold of a survey that the Danish Nursing Council has made in 2015 also among 2,000 members, it turns out that no less than 51 per cent. of the respondents find that the possibility of solving the core task at a professionally sound level is often or always under pressure. If it is a true picture of how nurses experience everyday life, i.e. 51 per cent. Do we not have a huge problem, therefore, seeing that the possibility of solving the core task at a professionally sound level is often or always under pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519150923	Well, that's right, if it's really that way, and you can add a lot to that, that's how it feels, it's a subjective assessment. I recognise that, and I think I have stressed this, both in the questions I have asked and in my introduction, that it is going to be, if I may say so, among the employees, absolutely, and I think everyone in this room also acknowledges that, but my point is that it is not a question of telling the employees that they must now run even stronger. Nah, I guess it's about running in the right direction. Once again, it's figuratively speaking, and we're creating the framework that makes their professional skills more involved, so that you just make sure that the figure of 51 per cent to which reference is made comes down, and I think that is something I think. everything else just comes when we get a better framework, i.e. in relation to super-hospital and emergency hospital functions etc. And then we also get some resources released by, among other things, the fact that we... We have reached the agreement that has brought an end to the flight of medicine prices, which we have probably witnessed. So these are some of the things, and then there is also the supply of, one might say, such quite cool cash on the Finance Act of last year of 2.4 billion. kr. When it is put together, it should like to make the picture, as Mr. Rune Lund refers to getting better with the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151035	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151037	It is true that funds have been provided. But the volume of work has increased even faster and even more than funds have been provided, and that is why we are today in a situation where a lot is being done, produced a lot, given a lot of treatments, made a lot of operations, but where the employees simply cannot keep up with any more. And if it is the case that the rapporteur recognises that a study such as the one I have just referred to is correct and that we then have a major problem, would it not be an idea that we are more discussing whether it is the right financial framework that we are setting for the work of employees in our health sector today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151121	In any case, it can be said that the regions have shown that they can deliver a productivity increase, and the question can then be asked why not other parts of the public sector can also deliver something similar, and that is one of them. What we then put up with our re-priority discussion is, of course, a bit of a side comment, but nevertheless it is remarkable. However, I also think it is important to make it clear that it is not the case that the trend will be halted by 2016 and that everything will then be frozen. Because, of course, there will be new opportunities in the future too for technology to be able to organise things differently and to provide super-sickhouses with the new functionalities and workflows that lie in it. So that's how things evolve all the time. Therefore, one cannot simply say that because something is under pressure today, one must lock everything down and then spend some more money. We must, of course, develop things, and we will continue to do so in the years to come, and well for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151214	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151219	Thank you. I would like to start by signing that the rapporteur recognizes that there is a lot going on in hospitals today and that employees are doing a huge amount of work. What I just cannot quite understand is: when I hear the rapporteur, it is as if there is some expectation that if we do not constantly demand further efficiency, there is such an inherent force among the employees that they want to be ineffective. That is not the position. After all, all people want to do their job as effectively and as professionally as possible. What is the problem now is that we are getting more and more reports that the professional level cannot be raised. Well, we see a higher number of rehospitals. We see previous hospital discharge because lay time is shortened. We see that there are constant demands for increased efficiency, which means that employees have to compromise on their professional skills. Shouldn't that make some alarm bells ring? It is a good thing that the physical framework is being improved, but should we not also look at improving the financial framework so that professionalism could be increased and that we could actually achieve greater efficiency that way around?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151334	It sounds almost as if Enhedslisten is opposed to doing things more appropriately, thus increasing productivity. I am not opposed to that. But it depends, of course, on how to increase productivity and, of course, it must be done at a professional level so that we constantly ensure that the quality of the product being delivered is the best possible. That is what I consider to be at stake here. That is just why I do not recognise the premise that if something does not work, it will work tomorrow if you send x additional billions in excess of the extra billions we already send, according to my introduction. That's why it's just that I'm dealing with more than the financial framework. The financial framework is important and it is being increased, and we are pleased about that, but it is also about the physical framework and therefore the opportunities that employees have to increase productivity and get their skills better into play instead of figuratively running faster and faster, but running in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151428	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151430	My point is that those who have the best idea of how to run in the right direction are the employees. They will not have the urge to run in the right direction to keep making increased demands, so they will have to compromise on their professionalism. Those are the reports we're getting. These are the reports that Danish Nursing Council gets when they ask around. That's what the FOA hears. That's what the doctors report. What they report is that we must gradually compromise on professionalism and if something goes beyond the efficiency and quality of health care, then it is if we compromise on professionalism. There, then, you have to recognize that the financial framework is also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151514	Well, I certainly recognise that too, and that is why I also welcome the fact that the financial framework has improved with this financial law under this government. But I also welcome the fact that we will then have the physical framework made considerably better in the coming years with the super-sickhouses and the billion-dollar investments that lie there. So I see this as a combination, and I just want to say that I have no problem with the productivity gains that the regions have made in recent years. I am actually delighted that it is actually very nice, and I sign for it. Others in the public sector might learn a little from that. I also note that productivity gains must, of course, go hand in hand with professionalism and that there must be a quality mark on the results and product being delivered. I think this is precisely what we are putting forward for the super hospitals, combined with an increased financial framework, as far as this is a good combination. But, of course, we must listen to what the employees say with Mr. Rune Lund's remarks in mind and I think we do, in fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151606	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519151618	Back in 2001, Denmark regained a bourgeois majority in the Folketing, and one of the things that the bourgeois majority carried out was a guarantee of treatment in the public health service, which I believe also, as far as I remember from then, was one month old. Thus, if you had not received treatment within one month, you had the right to have your treatment in a private hospital of your choice and paid by the public authorities. This led to some things in the public health services of the then counties and later regions: they began to create what is called free clinics. It was therefore regionally owned clinics which were not subject to the same requirements as the general hospitals and which had only one consideration, and that was to produce health care as cheaply as possible. They could do that much cheaper than the established hospitals. An example: Knee operations at what was then called Brædstrup Friklinik in the Region of Southern Denmark could now be performed 50 per cent. cheaper than knee surgery at Vejle Hospital in the same region, and Vejle Hospital was even a hospital that was relatively effective compared to other hospitals. So the public free clinics could perform the same operations 50%. cheaper. At one point back in 2011, a comparison was made of the cost of treatment in the public free clinics compared to the amount paid by the regions to private hospitals when carrying out the task for the regions. On average, private hospitals were 19 per cent. cheaper than the free clinics, and the free clinics were therefore also much cheaper than the established hospitals. I am telling this long story just to say that the idea that a health care service has a certain price and that all employees and all managers etc. etc. has no other focus than to do it as cheaply and well as possible, and that this cannot be challenged and done better, is as wrong as anything can ever be. It's been misdocumented. But the performance comes out of the fact that a party like Enhedslisten believes that every time they hear some people say that they are very busy, it is true and that if they are busy, it is always because there is too little money in the system. Let me tell you something that should not be a secret: if you go out on the street and talk to an ordinary employee, at least 50%, perhaps even 80%, will say that they are busy at work. That doesn't mean 50-80 percent. of the Danes have a job in which too little money is allocated. It just means that we people tend to see it as putting pressure on us on the part of our employers, which is what is being done. After all, pressure is being put on by the employer, it is the employer's job to get his employees to deliver and preferably a little more if possible. I also sometimes meet people who say that being in the Folketing must be incredibly hard, and that they hear all the members of the Folketing say that it is incredibly hard to be in the Folketing. Then I say: Yes, I know they all say that, but I think it's okay, I don't think it's more hard than it should be, because I actually think it's okay, and sometimes I even have a whole day when I can go around thinking about things. It does not change the fact that all my colleagues in the Folketing seem to be constantly going around saying that they are incredibly busy. We know it's not true if we think properly. It can actually be done as a member of parliament to spend some time just thinking about things. So you should not assume, just because someone says that there is too much work and that there is too little money in the system, that this is right, because these people are, of course, subject to an employer who would like to try to find out how to get more out of the workforce's efforts. It should not be a shadow of the fact that in some cases they are too busy, but here too it is not possible to say that it is because there is too little money. It might as well be because management is too bad. So we support the efficiency efforts that have been made in health care and we support the fact that it will continue in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152120	There are two inscriptions for short remarks. The first is sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152126	I referred earlier in the debate to a video that 50 midwives had made in 2015. I would like to read a quote from that video here in connection with my question to the rapporteur. One midwife says: "It's Sunday morning, it's 7:30 p.m. I'm on my way home from my night shift. That is, I couldn't go home. There were three of us who had to stay. Now I've had eight hours of overtime. Now I'm going home to sleep. And then I'll meet you at 3:00 again. It's not pitiful or whiny. It's just my everyday life. ▪ Is it also such an example that people are not really busy, even though they describe that they are busy? Is this also an example of the proper financial resources to carry out the task?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152216	This is at least if it has been over a long period of time, probably an example of a workplace which is not properly managed and which should be better managed. If it is a short-term matter, it is acceptable, and it may be sensible. This is how it is at all workplaces during periods of time, and then there is a need for employees to give an extra hand and also to work overtime, but if it is long-term, there is a management problem at the workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152246	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152249	Now I can reveal that the midwives who are involved in this video, which really went viral last October, experience that this is a permanent condition. If it's a permanent condition these midwives think it is, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen saw that it is only a question of there being a little better management, or does Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also that this, for example. is an area where it is simply a problem that there are not enough resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152320	If it is permanent or just prolonged, it is an example of being led too badly, because that is not the way it should be. Management is also to allocate resources between different areas of a region, and here it is possible that management should devote more resources to this effort, where there are apparently not enough resources, and management must, on the other hand, downgrade other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152358	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152401	Thank you. I would just like to say something about those questions, because the rapporteur now mentioned that if you went out on the street and asked people if they were in a hurry, they would say that they were in a hurry. That's not what this is all about. It's not about people being busy. I think everyone can recognise that you can have that. This is about compromising your professional skills. This means that you cannot deliver the work you are actually employed for, because the resources are not for it. That was one thing. But I would like to address something else, because Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has the point of allocating resources, and there it is a completely enchanting example that the rapporteur is taking forward in relation to the treatment guarantee, because what the treatment guarantee meant was a massive overpayment of private hospitals. This meant that one came to focus on back surgery, on knee surgery, on obesity surgery, because it is the light operations that can be made money on. So this meant precisely that a professional assessment of where resources should be allocated was stopped and that instead of the regions' hospitals had to focus precisely on those areas in order not to lose money for the private hospitals. This meant precisely a downgrade of the elderly medical patient, which meant a downgrade of psychiatry, because the basic deficiency in relation to it is a lack of specialists, and so we do not get that by doing more knee surgery.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152522	But it was because there were some other considerations there, and there it may be that in a scarce economy some treatments would have been given priority over others, which could not then be done because there was a guarantee of treatment, but it was because you wanted something specific. It wanted patients to have a right, a right to be treated within a month, and if the government could not deliver, then private people would have to bring the money to deliver. I think that was a good priority; it actually got the regions, former counties, up top, made them make an effort, among other things. by setting up these free clinics so that they could deliver within the month of the treatment guarantee as there was. So, of course, all policies can be good on their terms and then have costs elsewhere. In this case, it was decided to bring the good, knowing that it had the cost that it was harder to prioritise between areas of public health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152618	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152620	The elderly medical patients or psychiatric patients do not get better or easier access to the treatment of more resources being transferred to knee surgery. The basic shortcoming is precisely that there is a shortage of specialists in this area, and they do not come from the fact that you focus and you allocate the money elsewhere than in this area. So what the whole process of privatisation is all about is that instead of making a professional assessment of where resources are to be allocated, you make an economic one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152652	I know that Enhedslisten does not like putting pressure on public sector suppliers, but what was meant to be that the regions were first counties, so that the regions should feel the pressure that if they did not deliver on time, there was a possibility that patients could go somewhere else, instead of being tied to a public sector which at that time had massive problems with waiting lists, massive problems that had not been addressed by the previous Nyrup government before this bourgeois government came into force in 2001. I recognise that there may be costs to a policy, but there are also benefits to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152730	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has signed up for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519152751	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for taking this debate on the regions. I think this is a very important debate because it provides an opportunity to discuss the conditions of the regions. In fact, I believe that what we consider to be the most important thing in the alternative is to discuss the debureaucratisation, in other words to discuss the conditions we have touched upon here today, which we know employees are working under, in relation to the key directives that they are subject to. This is really true of both the managers and the employees. In one way or another, it is quite grotesque that we know that intern doctors spend half of their working time on documentation. Then, of course, you have to remember that not all documentation is unnecessary. But if, for example, we do. Looking at the nurses, they say they spend 1 hour and 40 minutes a day on documentation, 29 minutes of which are considered unnecessary documentation. In fact, when you talk to the relevant professional groups, they say that this is the biggest problem for them. We know that these are extremely skilled professional groups, and I am of the opinion that if you allow the employees and managers to work with their professional skills and not work on schedules, you will also have a much greater job satisfaction, plus that you will get, and that is perhaps the most important of allerals, a much greater patient satisfaction and patient care. We know, of course, that when employees and managers get space to organise their own working day and decide for themselves what is important and what is not important, they focus on what works, and that is also what works on patients. So I would like us to discuss at a later stage here in the Danish Parliament how we are really going to get to grips with a debureaucratisation. I do not think there are any parties who disagree with the fact that this is an extremely important issue, and perhaps particularly in the area of hospitals and in the regions. Then there is the question of how we pay things in the regions. There's the thing about that, for example. individual surveys are metered and settled. We also know this is going beyond the working day of health professionals, because there are enormous tasks going on, but we also know that patients suffer because they have to show up at different times, in fact for the same course of treatment, but at different times for different studies. It is because it is best paid in monetary terms, but why is it that we do not get to see it in the seams? One of the things that is really important for the alternative is that we maintain a principle that all people have equal access to equal and free health care in health care. That will be crucial for us. In relation to the economy itself, we think it is right, very positive, that these seven principles of priority for medicine have been established. We know that this was one of the main problems the regions faced in the last economic agreement, and this is certainly a step along the way. After all, in the alternative, we have proposed a proper priority institution. We still think this is a good idea, we can see from other countries that it releases a great deal of financial resources, but we are in this agreement ourselves, and we certainly think this is a step on the way. Then there is some of the things that we have not discussed here at all. After all, we have only discussed health care here on the platform today, but we must remember that the regions also take care of environmental efforts and pollution, and I hope that the forthcoming economic agreement will focus on that too. Again, I would like to thank you for putting the subject on the agenda. I think that what we should bring from here is how we are going to proceed with real debureaucratisation in the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153232	Thank you. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. That is true, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is from the Radical Left, and that is the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring. Johannes Lebech. And welcome back in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153244	Thank you. I have listened with great interest to this discussion and I can guarantee Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who said that there are not so many who want to keep up with that out there, where I come from, in West Jutland, hospitals are always interesting and always important discussion material. I note that the proposers do not like the economic agreement in general terms, and perhaps I do not, either, but that is more so for reasons of principle. But I do not think we are going to have a big discussion about the regions and their funding today. I admit, when the proposers say that they are concerned about the productivity pressure in hospitals all over Denmark, that I am also concerned. I have also listened with interest to the examples that have come, the examples that we see in the press. I admit that there is a productivity pressure, and that worries me too. I am also concerned that this could be a threat to quality. Our scepticism comes in the first place where it is not just a question of how we can always add more funds when there are problems. There are some resources to be allocated and there are some decisions that need to be taken within an economic framework which is an overall economic framework. At the same time, I would like to say that I think the Minister may be a little over-optimistic in this area when we talk about productivity promotion. In other words, there is a great deal of optimism on the part of the Minister, and perhaps I do not entirely share his optimism, but I would like to admit that something has happened. In fact, a number of departments in Denmark have succeeded in making good productivity improvements. And it is precisely productivity improvements where it is not the question of running stronger, but that of doing things in a different way. I would like to say to what Mrs Josephine Fock said about documentation and the use of time on bureaucratic paperwork that it is very important that we get rid of it as much as possible so that people in the health sector can spend their energy on what they can do professionally, it is not writing papers, but it is treating patients. It is also important that we address the price of medicines, and it is true that progress has been made on how to solve the problems of exploding medicine prices, not least in the case of a very few diseases where prices are quite exorbitantly high. But here I have to say that it is the regional politicians who have shown the greatest courage by saying that we must have priorities and that we must have a priority institution. Unfortunately, I think we have to go out that way still. It is going to be ethically very stressful and difficult to do so, but it is an area we need to address, because otherwise the prices of medicines will eat up the very serious and very special diseases of the budgets if we do nothing about it. I hope, then, that I can say first of all that the investment in the new hospitals, which the Minister also highlighted and others highlighted, will lead to the improvements in productivity. At least that is something we should hope for, otherwise we would not have to spend money on the many super-sickhouses. I am sure that in Holstebro we would have liked to have kept our hospital instead of having a super hospital; but let us hope, however, that they bring productivity improvements and, above all, improvements in quality. At the same time, however, one can be concerned that the budgets for these construction projects are at least in the region I come from, and I have the feeling that they are also doing so in the other regions. I think there is reason to be very concerned about that too. In other words, I am a concerned man, and that is the concern that is also being heard by the authors of the motion for a resolution. Health care is important. In fact, no one disagrees with that in here. However, the resources are not unlimited, and that is why we, together with the government party and the blue parties, have agreed to the one proposal for adoption which merely emphasises that negotiations must take place within a responsible financial framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153636	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153642	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur because the rapporteur on the Radical Left is the only one among the Social Democrats, the DF, the Left, the Liberal Alliance who has so far been on the platform, which I think seriously takes it that the requirement of productivity increase means that employees have a very difficult time getting things together in their daily lives. I have not heard any of the other rapporteurs behind the proposal for adoption that Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative are not behind, in the same way saying that we actually have a problem here. So I'd like to sign for that. The fact that there are not unlimited funds is something I agree with; it is a matter of prioritising. But then you have to say that when, for example, you have to say that you have to. The government has just announced that 27 bombers will be purchased, and Norway has paid 1 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. For example: you can say: we are dropping the purchase of new, expensive bombers, which are going to start more foolish and disastrous wars in the world, and we are instead spending the money on our all health care at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153752	First of all, I would like to stress that the talk about productivity pressures, as has been said a little polemically today, is not followed by a question mark. I do not think that this is what was expressed by the Enhedslisten, in other words that the commitment and willingness of the employees to do a great deal of work were called into question. It is simply polemical and wrong. Of course, employees want to do it, and they also want to create better productivity.I am absolutely sure of that and so can they. So I stand by that and I am aware of it. I myself have just had very close contact with the sector, especially the midwife sector, because I have just become a grandfather a week ago, when I went to Rigshospitalet, so I know where the pressure is from work. So it's no joke when you say you're under pressure from work. That is also why we need to listen more closely to what Mrs Josephine Fock says, namely that it is a question of creating the right jobs and using the right technology, so that we help employees to create a greater level of productivity. So the rapporteur certainly lures me a lot when it comes to changing fighter planes with hospitals. I would like that too, but we also have international obligations. I would say that the position of the Radical Left in the discussion on aircraft is that we stand by our side of the defence agreement, but we also do not want to buy a single aircraft more than is very necessary. So I can't be lured into saying we're changing planes with hospitals. But I recognise that the rapporteur is trying to lure me into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153916	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519153918	Yeah, 'cause if you want to buy 27 fighter planes that cost 1 billion. kr. This is the first time that we have been able to do this, and if we are going to believe the calculations we have seen, that these fighters, these bombers, as they are, will cost between 80 and 100 billion for the next 20 to 30 years. kr. In operation and maintenance, it is money that could have been spent on improving health care. Then it is money that could have been used to ensure that employees have more optimal conditions so that employees can do what they would rather do around the world, namely to give proper and completely optimal treatment to all of us who need, for example. to go to hospital and be treated there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154006	It could be nice if we had infinite resources, but Denmark is not an isolated island. I acknowledge that we also have international obligations in the defence community of which we are a member. And those commitments are also part of the total amount of expenditure that we have as a state and as a nation state. So I must insist that we have obligations internationally, we have obligations in many areas, and we also have obligations in the field of health. It must then be up to all of us to make the resources last and reach as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154039	I still have two on the list of speakers, and the first one is Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154046	Thank you. I would also like to sign up for a good and nuanced speech by the rapporteur. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur mentioned the problem of rising pharmaceutical prices, and it is true that an agreement has been reached between the parliamentary parties on priorities of medicine, which means that price and effect and something like that must be measured before it can become a standard treatment. However, despite this, it would be a great surprise to me if we did not continue to experience rising pharmaceutical prices and thus increased spending on the regions. Can the rapporteur not agree that it would be good to be able to compensate the regions for the increased cost of medicines so that they do not find themselves in a situation where they have to opt out of treating patients, because the money has to be given priority over medical costs, so that instead we have to cut back on some other areas? Does the rapporteur not agree that it will be possible to compensate the regions for the increase in expenditure if the cost of medicines increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154154	It is a question of what the central demand is for the regions and their use of medicines. Because sometimes in the public debate you may feel that national politicians in particular have no limits on what can be used by medicines, but that they may not always be aware of the threat to the economy of the regions. I look forward to a priority institute. There is a certain type of medicine for men my age with prostate problems, which cost about 50 million. kr. Just in the Central Jutland Region, and in the longer term it will explode. In the pharmaceutical industry, new, fine, good means are being invented which very few politicians will have easy to say no to. And that's why we need to get ourselves a priority institute and sort out the costs of this area. Not because we want to prevent anyone from getting an optimal medical treatment, but so that we can also push the pharmaceutical industry in that we cannot accept everything that comes from there. We must also work in this way, in other words press the pharmaceutical industry to come up with sensible and competitive prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154307	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154309	I fully agree with the latter part. We can just take Novo Nordisk, who last year paid out 13 billion. kr. to their shareholders of the profits they had received after they had paid expenses for research, innovation, wages and everything else. So there are extremely high profits in the pharmaceutical industry. We must, of course, work on that. Today it is the case that priority must be given, that is to say, that power must be measured in relation to price and something like that. But does the rapporteur not agree that if expenditure continues to increase, it will be necessary to compensate the regions for the increase in expenditure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154351	It has to be included in the negotiations which the regions have with the state on the expenditure that is there. And there must be the argument of the regions that if the price of medicines comes under strong pressure, it will be difficult to solve the other tasks. It is not, of course, because changing governments have not wanted to impose new tasks on the regions, I should like to say hello.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154413	The next short remark is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154417	In the United States we may risk getting Donald Trump, the right-wing populist, as president, but here in Denmark we have had the left-wing populist party Enhedslisten in the Folketing for many years. There is not so much difference between populism there, except that one comes from the right and the other comes from the left. Now, after all, the new left populist slogan is about fighter planes and that all the money for that must be spent on something else. Now it is the case that we are part of NATO, and we are many parties that continue to want Denmark to remain so. In order to be able to join NATO, we must also make our contribution to the common defence of NATO countries. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Johannes Lebech, whether NATO accepts the cost of health care, that is to say, moving costs from fighter aircraft to blind-arm operations, knee operations and cancer treatments, etc., as a contribution to the common defence of the NATO area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154510	I think the questioner is beginning to be polemical, because of course it cannot. After all, I was aware of the arguments that lie behind it. Please note that this is a popular argument. It is difficult to understand how expensive fighters must be bought when we say in other areas that there are few resources. From a popular point of view, it is very difficult to explain this, but that does not mean that I, as a politician, do not stand by my commitments internationally. We are a member of NATO, and that is why we must make a reasonable Danish contribution to our participation in the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154548	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154550	Things are getting a little off the subject, but we have to thank Enhedslisten for that. When Mr. Johannes Lebech says that it is difficult to explain that money is spent on fighter planes when it is perhaps perceived in some places that there is not enough money for health care, I would just like to call on Mr Lebech. Johannes Lebech to say to these people who cannot understand it that Denmark in relation to the country's size etc. make a relatively small contribution to NATO's common defence budget, also measured as a percentage of GDP, compared to what other countries do. That is why we cannot go much further, at least, and we will have to make about the same contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154631	I can guarantee you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen for me to take part in those debates, including in the public debates. But I do recognise that it is really difficult for people to understand this. This does not make the debate easier for politicians, but of course politicians must take it and dare take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154646	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the SF, Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519154659	Thank you to the authors for calling the debate, and thank the Minister for Finance for his statement. Although the Minister for Finance has not fully opened the good bag or been very precise about where the regional negotiations will end right before the negotiations enter their final phase, it is good that we have these discussions in the Parliamentary Assembly. In this way, it can be more clear to the citizens and employees of the regions how the political parties stand in terms of the development of primarily health care in 2017 and in the years forecast. It is, in fact, an essential condition that the regions should be provided with a proper financial framework if health care is both to be properly operated and to be provided with a proper investment framework for continued development. For SF, it is therefore essential to ensure proper operating frameworks and capacity to deal with the increasing pressure and new patient rights that the government is now putting in place. If that does not happen, we know from historical experience that resources will again migrate from the elderly medical patients, from the chronicles and psychiatry and the whole area of prevention. Here and now, however, the government has focused on the medical area and the dementia area, and they should only be praised for this. But the pressure will come back if the government's primary focus is forward-looking, waiting-time guarantees and phasing-in of cancer plan IV. In psychiatry, we know that there is still a need for expansion, since there are still people who are going in vain or being discharged too quickly or too soon being transferred to overly strained settlements in social psychiatry. The last one isn't gonna work. I therefore expect the government to take this issue into account in both the municipal and regional negotiations. More resources are needed and better cooperation needs to be established and common solutions developed between the treating psychiatric and social psychiatry, if we are to solve the problems we face, among other things. I've been looking at Lindegården for the last few months. The prevention area needs to be given more attention if we want to ensure both public health but also if we want to avoid a number of ticking economic bombs under future health care. In a few years we can expect a doubling in the number of citizens with diabetes if we do not strengthen prevention for children and young people. The same applies to smoking where it appears that the number of young smokers is increasing again. For SF, it is also crucial that the forthcoming agreement with the regions maintains at least a construction framework in 2017 corresponding to the level of 2016 allocated to state pools and a realistic estimate of the drain for quality fund buildings. This is the prerequisite for us to be able to land the super-sickhouses mentioned and planned, without too many floors and hospital kitchens being shaved away from the construction projects, but also for the regions to get started renovating the rest of the hospital building stock that will have to live until the new super-sickhouses are put into service. It will take 5-10 years before they are built or the hospital equipment that will have to live on. Since health covers such a large part of the regional budget, I have not touched on regional development at all, but here I would just like to reiterate SF's criticism of the re-priority contribution, which everything else will bring more and more money away from, among other things. public transport. So I would just like to conclude by saying that we support the proposal for adoption tabled by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, because we believe it is crucial that the agreement on the regional economy for 2017 as a whole does not further burden their economy if they are given new tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155111	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone with brief comments to this rapporteur, so thank you. I do not see any more new rapporteurs in the Chamber either, and I understand that the Minister for Finance does not wish to speak again, and why I should ask whether the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has the right to speak again. Rune Lund, would like to speak. Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155146	Thank you. We have had this question debate today because negotiations are currently taking place between the government and Danske Regions on an economic agreement for 2017. As part of today's debate, one of the major problems facing our health services today is that employees must run stronger and stronger in order for budgets to be linked. Everyone is interested in innovation; everyone is interested in good governance; we will all do things in the right and proper way. There is no problem with that. However, it has been shown that only a minority here in the Folketing really wants to discuss seriously the economic framework that the regions will have to have if they are to have the opportunity and if the employees of the regions are to have the opportunity to provide a proper and optimal service to the citizens. This is what the employees want most in the world, namely to deliver the most optimal performance. That is why it is our responsibility as politicians to provide the framework needed for employees to be able to do so. It is time to wake up to the politicians who insist on sending the bill for more treatments to the employees of the country's hospitals and thus ultimately the patients. Those aren't things that have gotten out of thin air. I've got one of them. in the context of today's debate, mention was made of the fact that the midwives around the country are subject to exceptionally hard working pressure. I will read another quote from the video that went virally in October 2015, where 50 midwives photographed their feet while they said: "... I have just completed 25 hours of shift on the maternity leave with a feeling of simply being so sorry, not being able to give the last of the powers to a child, because I didn't have any of my own....Another example is from Jyllands-Posten yesterday with a specialist in lung medicine Pia Holland Gjørup, who has taken the consequence of the great work pressure and has resigned from his position at the Hospital Unit West in Holstebro. She says: "The labor pressure is enormous, and you get so terribly worn out..." "But every time I go home from work on time, there are some tasks that are not solved." I think it is hard to see that we cannot achieve everything we should and that we are failing some along the way. In the debate, studies have also been made by the Danish Nursing Council, among others. a survey of the members of the Danish Nursing Council from 2015. 82 per cent answer here. of the 750 nurses surveyed that they have experienced within the last month that citizens have been discharged from the hospital to their own home before they have been completed. These examples show, of course, that the discussion about the economy and ensuring a proper financial framework for the work of employees is a very central discussion, and it is a discussion that cannot be sneaked around by talking about better management and we must do things again and better and there are new machines and new technology and there are plenty of things we can do differently. These are also important issues, but they must not be issues that are raised with the aim of sneaking away from the discussion that is about us having the right economy for the health workers to be able to deliver the services they want to deliver to the citizens, which is the professionally sound service. So I am also very pleased today that at least the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF have found a proposal for adoption that takes care of this problem properly with the text: The Danish Parliament instructs the government in the negotiations with Danske Regions on the region's economy for 2017 to conclude an agreement with Danske Regions, where the economy of the regions is not burdened overall if they are given new tasks. It shows two things. This shows that there is a political force in this Parliament that would like to address the problems properly, but it also shows that political pressure will have to continue if we are to have a proper framework for the future that will enable health workers to deliver the most optimal for the benefit of all those who need to use health care. With those words, I would like to thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155645	It is barely complete because, according to my screen at least, there is another one with a brief comment, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155652	We have, of course, through a parliamentary year a great many debates in which Enhedslisten thinks more money should be spent on things. It is almost the raison d'être of Enhedslisten to say that more money needs to be spent. It's such an automatic thing. At the moment, these debates are, of course, spiced with the fact that you just have to take the money from fighter planes, and that is also what Mr. Rune Lund has done today... just take the money from those fighter planes. After all, we are a member of NATO and we have to pay a certain quota to be a member of NATO; we have to contribute to the common defence policy. Of course, you can do no such thing if you want Denmark to be withdrawn from NATO, and that is why my question is to Mr Seligman. Rune Lund: Is it Enhedslisten's wish • because I don't actually remember it • that Denmark should be withdrawn from NATO so that we no longer have to pay our quota there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155746	I can confirm that Enhedslisten's policy is that if we were given the opportunity to withdraw from NATO, a military bloc which contributes to militarisation, which contributes to terrible and catastrophic wars around the world, we saw it, for example. In Afghanistan, it is the policy of Enhedslisten that we should certainly do so. It will also release funds for other things, for example. health care, which we are discussing today. I feel like when bombers cost 1 billion. kr. per pieces
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155837	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155839	I'll be happy, sir. Rune Lund that we have the opportunity to resign from NATO, it is not a forcibly community. I assume that if there is a simple majority in this Parliament for Denmark to be withdrawn from NATO, we can do so. But I'd like to ask Mr. Rune Lund about something: Is it Enhedslisten's idea that the defence that Denmark would have outside the NATO Alliance would be cheaper than the defence that we can only have within the NATO Alliance? E.g. Sweden a cheaper defence than Denmark, and is it Enhedslisten's idea that Denmark could have a cheaper defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519155913	Now, of course, we can start a longer debate on security policy, because I am happy to contribute to that. We see security and international cooperation in quite a different way from the way the vast majority in this Parliament sees it. Instead of focusing on an aggressive, militaristic foreign policy, we will focus much more on how we can strengthen the UN, focus on how we can create political solutions, focus on how we can make conflict resolution, and we will direct money in that direction. At the same time, we will also cut back on the military. We believe we should have a military based on territorial defence. In our party programme we call it a completely different organisation, which must be of a much smaller size and which aims to provide territorial defence, and not an organisation which is not really a defence but an attack and which is designed to throw bombs and start wars around the world. For Denmark, unfortunately, in recent years, even since the early 00s, has had a very aggressive foreign policy and has acted as a very aggressive country, which has participated in virtually all the wars that the United States has wanted to start and which have proved to be very disastrous; we see, for example, what has happened in Afghanistan and Iraq. But it is a longer debate and we are not taking it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519160035	Speaking time is up, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Tuesday 24 May 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519160057	We shall now proceed to the next item on the agenda, and there are many points to which I would like to draw attention, so that my appeal to keep to the speaking time is still valid. The debate is open and I will give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519160133	Thank you very much. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 117 proposal to introduce a reporting obligation for companies which, through their IT platform, communicate contact between customers and a taxpayer using his private car for taxi and/or freight transport with a view to obtaining a fee or a profit. The proposal is intended to ensure that SKAT is automatically notified of the taxable citizens who have received revenue from the company's IT platform and the amounts involved for the taxable persons involved. A short time ago we had a debate and discussion in the Chamber on motion for a resolution No. B 82, which dealt with something similar, namely reporting obligations on companies providing rental services. At the time, I said that I saw the new corporate concepts in shared economy as an expression of innovation that helps to make us richer as a society and give all Danes more opportunities. I thought so when we dealt with B 82, and as long as it was not long ago, I naturally still think the same thing. Share economy is growing rapidly both internationally and in Denmark. I believe and the government believes that the trend towards more and more digital business models has come to stay. Share economy as a business concept, however, challenges the way that has traditionally been run in Denmark. At the same time, however, I believe that the sharing economy offers good opportunities for growth and that the business model makes the opportunity or car an asset for the individual, who can thus earn more money, gain more room for manoeuvre and gain more freedom in his life if he wishes. There are therefore many good reasons why we need to make it easy and attractive to use shared economic services and to set up pan-economic platforms and businesses. But there is always one but, in relation to this motion for a resolution and the company concerned mentioned, it is a big but. The many new exciting opportunities offered by the shared economy to tenants and landlords are rightly getting more people to question whether our tax system is geared towards meeting the challenges of the shared economy. We all have to answer the right tax, even when we take advantage of the economic benefits of the shared economy and new business models. It's my job as tax minister to make sure that happens. I must also say that, as legislators, we must be careful not to stifle the budding thoughts and what should we say about the economic element that is in the divisive thinking. Instead, we need to find solutions that ensure that it is easy to pay the taxes you have to pay when you take advantage of the many opportunities offered by the divided economy. SKAT has in spring 2016, i.e. this year started an analysis project to give SKAT a more detailed knowledge of the shared economy, including its scope and any obligation to pay tax on activities, including how to effectively carry out controls. SKAT will examine in the analysis project the different business models in the shared economy, the fiscal challenges in the concepts, and how SKAT can help to ensure that the tax conditions in the area are both clear and well-known. It should also be seen how SKAT can exercise control in this area and whether there is a need to change legislation. In addition, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to look at the growth potential of the shared economy, considering that we would like to have more shared economy, including how existing industries, for example. The hotel industry, the transport industry, etc., can benefit from shared economic concepts and how, moreover, equal competition can be achieved. When the results of SKAT's analysis project and the results of the analysis work of the inter-ministerial working group are available, both the possibilities and the need for a change in the rules in relation to the shared economic services must be assessed. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the commitment I made in dealing with B 82, namely that I wish to discuss the outcome of the SKAT analysis project and possible options and the need to change the rules in relation to shared economic services with the Danish Parliament's parties. I expect SKAT's analysis project to be completed in mid-2017, i.e. next year, but there will be a preliminary report in autumn 2016, with a view to calling Parliament's parties for a discussion. There is no doubt that the shared economy can present challenges, including for the tax system, but then there is the question raised by the Enhedslisten in the motion for a resolution: is the reporting obligation the solution? Is it just the stones of the wise that we have to take hold of? Several popular sectional services are operated by companies which are neither resident nor have a permanent establishment in this country. This means that any Danish reporting obligation cannot be enforced against these companies. I repeat: this means that any Danish reporting obligation cannot be enforced against these companies. In order to be subject to a possible reporting obligation, natural or legal persons resident in this country or operating from a permanent establishment in this country must be subject to reporting obligations. If this is done through a company which is neither resident nor has a permanent establishment in this country, then enough reporting obligations can be indicated, but this will not result in the company in question being covered. As I have said, several of the popular sharing services are foreign, so a Danish reporting obligation will not be immediately enforceable. Another thing is that the person using his private car to make a profit is, of course, taxable. At the same time, however, the costs involved are deducted. However, there is no doubt that such income should be disclosed to the SKAT. So if you make a very quadruple reporting obligation, as set out in the motion for a resolution, then there will also be a deduction for some of those who have expenses. Then, of course, we can discuss whether there should also be an automatic reporting obligation on them, and this may give us reason to consider whether this is the right path that Enhedslisten has chosen here. In conclusion, I would like to stress that there is a clear need for me to recognise this in order to follow developments in this area, and I would like to reiterate that the shared economy is an area that both I and the government will be looking into in the future. As a user of a shared economy service, you also have to pay the tax you have to pay, and there has to be a level playing field for the industries. As mentioned, SKAT has started an analysis project which, like the inter-ministerial working group, will also have to look into the matter. The result of this work, including the continued dialogue with the industry, can help to identify opportunities and the need for new initiatives in this area, which can help to ensure that the industry can continue to grow in Denmark while taxes and charges are being paid at the same time. When an industry grows and is in development and pays taxes, the tax base also grows accordingly, and this must be in the interest of both the companies concerned and the Danish community. However, as a starting point, I do not want to introduce new reporting rules when it is still unclear whether such reporting obligations would be meaningful. Let me say that at this stage, in the view of the government, it will not be meaningful. That is why I would like to start by engaging in dialogue with the providers and getting this work started, which could form the basis for a thorough political discussion in the autumn on some of the issues raised by Enhedslisten, namely that it seems that not all of these shared economy services pay the tax they should pay. But on that basis I cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519160946	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519160952	The Minister begins his speech with a very long talk of shared economy and also talks about it continuously throughout his speech. After all, you can now assess and that is actually what disputes whether Uber is part-economic or co-driving. In any case, it's more than regular taxi driving. And as far as I know, truckers and taxi drivers report, etc. Everything they make by driving a taxi. Therefore, it may of course be wondering if it should not include Uber, who after all the signs in the sun and moon after all the taxi driving and not co-driving. But the tax minister is asking if the tax system is really geared towards dealing with all these new del-economic services. There I would like to know whether SKAT technically cannot handle a direct reporting obligation from Uber. That's what the director of Uber, Mathias Thomsen, says. in P1 Business on the taxi war says that he sort of has the information that needs to be provided, but that the Ministry is not able to handle them and receive them. Can it really be true?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161124	I do not think it can be said as square as it is presented here, but Mr. Henning Hyllested is right in that in order to set up such an alert, there are some technicalities that need to fall into place. I do not think that this is insurmountable, and if there are companies that want to report voluntarily, then SKAT will work and hopefully they will also work quickly and effectively to ensure that it can happen. So if such a commitment has been made, I have an expectation that it will of course be possible for SKAT to take place. But I think the easiest thing would be for Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested asks a written question when dealing with the motion for a resolution. Then we can get an answer from SKAT as the responsible authority. However, as a minister, I can only imagine that if there are any obstacles, they will be quickly and effectively eliminated, because we want to encourage voluntary reporting when we cannot force an alert through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161218	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161220	I am, of course, extremely pleased that it is, if I may say so, myths or false claims brought to the market by Uber. The same statement was repeated when we had a hearing in here about the share economy I think it was under the auspices of the Enterprise Committee; I barely remember it, but I think it was where the same was said: we have the information that needs to be provided. It's not a problem, but the IRS can't receive them. The IRS isn't geared to it. By the way, Airbnb said the same thing, but bad about it. This is about Uber. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister of Tax here almost disproves, that this is the case, and says that otherwise it will be all right. I would like to hear now what the dialogue currently taking place with Uber is heading in the direction of. I would like the Minister of Taxation to lift a bit of a veil over the direction in which their reporting is proceeding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161312	Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Henning Hyllested, that I have participated in a meeting with Uber, where I have clearly urged them to ensure that their business was done legally, and, moreover, to ensure that the tax that they and their drivers have to pay is paid. And then it is a question between the company concerned and the relevant authority. I would rather not go into that as a minister and so in detail. But Mr. Henning Hyllested is welcome to ask. I don't think I was told before that there were no problems, because there may be problems with an alert. I have said that the tax administration will endeavour to overcome these problems as soon as possible. One of the challenges may be that you can't just send in a lot of numbers, but that they need to be attached to the cpr numbers or the cvr register or other things. But it is both the person who reports that can do something, and then the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161400	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161405	Thank you. I would like to ask a little more questions about what we call shared economy, and then specifically keep Uber out of it for a moment, because I think that this doesn't make sense if it turns out that Uber is an illegal company. Because what we are talking about must be legal companies that have to report. There I think the Minister has said a few times and we have heard the same tones in the Business Committee that these are both new and exciting business models, but that they can also be a challenge, both at the same time. There are more and more tax dollars that can be involved in this, and there are a lot of people who can be. I think we all know some people who rent their house or apartment at Airbnb or something, and that can be really nice. You just have to answer your taxes. It is now some time since the Minister said that he would make representations to some of the companies concerned. So it is just to understand what the Minister said to my colleague just now: is it the case that there is a specific dialogue? Is it a question of the companies concerned voluntarily reporting or making systems so that they can report? Is it a question of the fact that because it is a foreign company, the tax minister cannot ensure that potentially millions of tax dollars can enter the treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161540	That was a true reflection of what I have said as Minister, so thank you for that, namely that we regard the shared economy as something positive, but that there are also some challenges with new business models. But new markets are opening up, new jobs are emerging, new tax revenues are emerging. We should not strike that down, we should embrace that, but we must ensure that the tax is paid. One way may be the voluntary reporting, and I have encouraged a number of these sub-economy companies to do so, also at meetings of the Treasury. And I understand that there is a dialogue between a number of these companies and SKAT. Then there may be some technical challenges that must be overcome. If Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen like Mr. Lisbeth Poulsen... Henning Hyllested would like a detailed explanation of that, I would suggest that it be put as a question to the motion for a resolution and I would like to obtain a reply from the SKAT. And then I would like to make the political commitment that I am working to ensure that voluntary reporting can be carried out as quickly as possible. And I certainly have an expectation that SKAT will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161642	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161644	Unfortunately, SKAT is now in a constitution, so there is neither the resources nor the political will to do the equational and controlal follow-ups that we see elsewhere. So a very specific written question I would like to ask the Minister is how many of the companies we call 'part-economic companies' have responded to tax on a taxable income. There are, of course, some minimum limits and so on, but it might be interesting to see that there are many of us who know some who, for example, are. has rented their houses or apartments. My specific question is simply: is it satisfactory that such a thing should be based on voluntaryness?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161730	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161731	I don't really think so, but these business models need to know how much is going on through an app or a website that isn't based in Denmark. It's challenging us forward-looking. We can choose to ignore technological developments, or we can choose to see if we can regulate tax legislation wiser so that we can ensure that we pay the tax we have to pay. So I choose the latter, but if we are to do it wisely and intelligently, I think we should wait until the discussions that will be on the other side of the summer break when we have a good professional basis for deciding what we are doing to ensure that the tax is paid. Because it has to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161805	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161807	Now the Minister of Taxation says that it is important to make voluntary agreements on automatic reporting. When the tax minister says so, I guess that means that the tax minister says that automatic reporting as a principle is a good thing. And if that is a good thing, why can we not say right now that we want it, even if there appear to be other parts of tax legislation that are not in place, for example. in relation to whether the automatic reporting should only be carried out in the case of an undertaking subject to tax in Denmark? I feel a little bit that if we start by adopting the automatic reporting, we have reached one step along the way, and then we can tackle the other challenges afterwards. What does the Minister of Taxation think about that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161859	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161900	The short answer to that, sir. Rune Lund, I am not only concerned with what the Danish Parliament decides. I am also concerned about what and how and how quickly we can translate it into reality. Sometimes it happens that the Folketing adopts some legislation, and then you think that the problem has been solved. And if we adopt the Enhedslisten resolution, on which I understand that the Enhedslisten would like support, we could be left with the impression that the problem is solved. It is just not as I explained in my ministerial speech. Having said that, however, I would like to say that I am pleased with automatic reporting. This is one of the things that makes a lot of Danes pay the tax they have to pay because everything is reported electronically. We must continue to do so. We are just challenged when it comes to companies that are not physically resident in Denmark, and we need to find a solution to that. I am sure we will find this, but it requires us to think a little about it, and we will do so from now on until the autumn, when we can have the political discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161957	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519161958	I am well aware that everything is not being solved just because some green buttons are being pressed down here in the Assembly Hall. It takes more than that. But I think that if the Minister stands and says that automatic reporting is a good thing, why not adopt it? And then we have that part of the legislation in place. After all, there are some discussions in the European Union at the moment, as the Minister knows, in relation to changing the rules in this area in such a way that the profits are taxed where they are created. And if those principles, like those of the legislation that comes, are applied, then we will have the possibility that it can be linked to the automatic reporting. So what is really the point here is to say that let's go as far forward as we can, all the time, and then work for the rest, that is to put it in place, so that we can sort this area out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162049	I think that automatic reporting is a good thing when it is possible to enforce the reporting obligation, and this can be done in the case of companies based in Denmark. But that is not possible when it comes to companies that are only an app or a website and are in Germany, in Cayman Islands, in Panama or somewhere else. There you have to find something different and more effective to ensure that those companies also pay the tax that is rightfully within the Danish Treasury. We will find some solutions to this in the autumn, which I am confident about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162122	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162126	Thank you. I look forward to the discussions we will have in the autumn, and my question goes more in this respect to the Minister's use of the definition of the shared economy. It is true that we have now had this debate on several occasions in this Chamber with various motions for resolutions aimed at different companies, and I think it is actually a little thought-provoking that it is all being swept under that definition. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: what is the Minister's view and perhaps the government's view of the definition of what is a shared economy and what is not a shared economy? Because one might also argue that this resolution, which is targeted at Uber, was perhaps just something else and that the definition of a shared economy should not be used as such a broad concept, under which everything can be swept.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162222	I agree with the questioner in that is one of the reasons why we need to think a little about this rather than just endangering legislation and resolutions and other things, because how do we get it defined: what is a shared economy, and what is not a shared economy? One of the ideas that I have launched and which I will try to pursue in the autumn, if there is Parliament's support for it, is whether we can make some tax incentives. And that means that if you do automatic reporting, there is a base deduction or something else. This is known from the summer cottage area, where it has been effective in making the black cottage rental white. But that must also be defined in terms of which companies can be part of it, part-economics and so on. So these are very relevant questions that we need to think about and find some good answers to, and I do not have those answers at this stage. That is why I do not think it is obvious to legislate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162311	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162312	If you actually take this motion for a resolution and some of those that we have been through a little earlier on in connection with the reporting obligation for rental companies, lex Airbnb, it is difficult, as I understand the government's assessment, because basically we can adopt it, but we cannot introduce it for platforms that are not physically present in Denmark. What will the result basically be, that is, if we now adopt it here, can we enforce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162348	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162350	As I said fairly clearly in my ministerial speech, at this stage we cannot enforce a reporting obligation for a number of companies which are not resident in Denmark. We can adopt it, but we will not be able to commit them, we will not have the opportunity to sanction them, as the legislation is today. Some of these sub-economy companies are so resident in Denmark and pay taxes in Denmark, and I think Uber doesn't have their taxi department, but a development department, so there are connections. But the point is also that it would be easy to circumvent such reporting obligations if you had to or would want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162426	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162443	Thank you. After all, this motion for a resolution is another one in the series of proposals relating to the development of companies that use digital platforms to create a market for the provision of services between people, a development that is not in itself problematic, because it is in that sense a basic condition that the world is developing, and perhaps also a basic condition in this time that developments are going enormously hard when it comes to the use of technological opportunities. However, development should not be an excuse for accepting employers who deliberately try to outperform other companies and employees with poor pay and working conditions. And that is why it has to be said that concepts such as shared economy etc. I do not want to be an excuse for the basically classic old-fashioned situation in the labour market, for some people trying to outperform others by failing pay and working conditions. This contributes to undermining the Danish labour market model, and we must, of course, combat that. This requires an active effort from employees, and it requires employers who are in charge of matters, and of course it also requires a great and active effort from us at Christiansborg. This is among other things. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are actively working to improve taxi legislation and have pressured the government to open up a discussion on taxi legislation, and some of our objectives are, among other things, those of us. to strengthen the current regulation of the taxi market in Denmark. It is, in fact, a major priority for us that taxi driving takes place on orderly conditions, that competition is fair and that both pay and working conditions are under control and, of course, tax payments are also under control. And that is why it is quite obvious that it is also about what tax is being reported, both by the companies that operate, but also, of course, by the citizens who feed themselves as a taxi driver. Another of our priorities in these negotiations is, of course, that the authorities should be better able to control it and enforce that taxi services are carried out on orderly conditions. Those negotiations are under way, and we in the Social Democrats are trying to achieve our results at the negotiating table on a regular basis, because we believe that this will have the greatest effect, so that we can also take account of some of the challenges that exist in the legislation today, as the tax minister has also mentioned. And that is why we end up voting against this resolution because we have an ambition to achieve the results at the negotiating table. Should it then turn out that the negotiations on the taxi law do not bring anything with them, we are ready to take it up again, including here in the Folketing. Then we all go and wait for the verdict on the charges that have been made against some of the citizens who have fed themselves as a driver through Uber's judgment to be handed down here in mid-June. And I am not going to stand here from the platform of the parliament and tell whether one or the other is right or wrong, let alone pass judgment, but I can see that there have been parallel cases in Sweden where 30 citizens have been fined for pirate driving, which has resulted in Uber pulling their app and their service out of Sweden a week ago. The authors of the motion for a resolution could therefore be asked whether they do not, with this motion for a resolution, basically anticipate a position on what Uber is for a company, since they are so specific to it if it would not perhaps be very wise to wait for the legal position in this area to be completed. In fact, it could be that the legislation in force was good enough and that this motion for a resolution will serve a purpose which one is opposed to, namely to legalise this service. As I said, however, I do not have to deal with whether Uber is one thing or the other, or with drivers, because we have the courts to do so, but I have to state from here what is the position of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162906	Thank you. Then it is a brief remark from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519162911	I am, of course, very pleased that Mr. Jeppe Bruus addresses what is basically the problem when we address Uber in our motion for a resolution, and that is that there is social dumping and taxi driving in breach of tax legislation. It must be clear enough. One might also ask: What is Mr. Jeppe Bruus' view, so completely off the record, could one almost say, of what Uber is? It's been hard to get hold of the Social Democrats' attitude to this phenomenon, Uber. There are some general speeches and phrases which say that we are against social dumping and so on. etc. It can be said that the current taxi legislation is really good enough. Taxi driving is required and commercial passenger transport is involved. That is very, very clearly defined in the taxi legislation. But now, a case has been brought. For incomprehensible reasons, I am thinking here of the Uber drivers, rather than simply presenting them with a fine proposal, as would be the case with anyone else who was driving a pirate car. I would like to hear what it is that makes it impossible to accept this resolution when it is quite obvious that there is social dumping and unfair competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163034	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163036	There were several questions. So, first of all, on our position on piracy: yes, it is social dumping. But I do not really think it is my role as legislator to stand and anticipate a judgment. That is where we have the division of power, and I am quite happy with that, and that is why I am naturally awaiting that judgment. It will also send out a signal as to whether or not the legislation is good enough. That is why I think it is the Enhedslisten who really anticipates the progress of this motion for a resolution. I also think I have argued why we cannot support this motion for a resolution. It is not because we fully share the view that this has to be done on fixed terms, just that this has to be done on fixed terms; it is also about tax payments. We believe that it can be done by looking through the taxi law and seeing if it is really strong enough in relation to the challenges facing us in the taxi area, and thus expect us to be able to achieve results at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163139	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163141	Strictly speaking, the taxi legislation has nothing to do with, you might say, this resolution. I was just very happy that Mr. Jeppe Bruus addressed the problem of social dumping in the taxi industry and in relation to Uber. But taxi legislation has nothing to do with what to say, the reporting obligation. That is what we want a position to be taken on: can it really be fair that you have a number, perhaps thousands, of drivers running around, who obviously have an income from what they do by driving around for Uber, but where the money is not reported and thus not taxed? It is, in fact, independent of whether Uber is illegal or not. If Uber's illegal, there's nothing to raffle about. Then you can expect them to withdraw, just as they did in Sweden. But if Uber is now a legal enterprise that is allowed to continue, we must surely have some form of reporting of the revenue generated around in the cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163234	Yes, please. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163236	I do not really understand the question and that this should have nothing to do with taxi legislation. Why, then, is it that the taxi legislation is referred to in the comments on the proposal? As I can read, it has something to do with taxi law, because this is about taxi driving. That is why I am also waiting for the judgments that will come, because then we will also have clarity as to how the current legislation stands in relation to the challenges that are clearly on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163303	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur. There are no more comments. It's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163320	After all, as the two previous speakers have actually said, this resolution is about the introduction of reporting obligations for taxi or freight carriers. It must be clearly stated that this is probably directed at Uber, since, as far as I know, it is the only service that works in the way that is referred to here in the resolution. This is a discussion which is very similar to the one we had about the reporting obligation for Airbnb some time ago. Basically, I can say that we in the Danish People's Party think that reporting is a good thing, as it is a good thing, among other things. helps ensure that the state gets the money it needs because it turns black money into white money. This will also make it easier for citizens to report automatically, and it will help to create a more equal competitive environment. So basically we are in favour of reporting obligations where they make sense. But I would also like to say that in this particular case it does not actually make sense to make an obligation to report, because we regard Uber as a taxi-driving company, in other words, but rather to feel driving outside the scope of the law. So we do not think it makes sense to introduce an obligation to report illegal driving, because if something is illegal, then it is illegal, and that is where we think we are going down the wrong path if we choose to say that, after all, we are going to stamp it by saying that if they simply report something, it is perhaps less illegal. We don't think we should go that way. On the other hand, what if Uber starts to comply with the rules, among other things? Having the right driver's licenses, insurance and other things? Yes, in fact, there are already rules on driving licences or taximeters, which gives a control trail to follow for the authorities. However, we do not think it makes sense to introduce a reporting obligation for something that we believe to be illegal. Conversely, it can also be said that we could also introduce reporting obligations on undeclared work. I don't think we'd get much out of that. I don't think we do either in this case. Then there is another problem. These companies typically operate via IT platforms, which makes it clear, as we pointed out in the resolution on Airbnb, that they do not have a permanent place of operation in Denmark and that they are neither a legal person nor a natural person in Denmark. This then means that the reporting obligation would typically not apply to them. So that way you can say that even if you really wanted to go this way, it probably wouldn't have much effect either. In conclusion, I would just like to say that we cannot support the resolution, but in this way we support the spread of the divide economy and also look forward to the study that the tax minister has again announced today and on which he will also call for negotiations. We look forward to that, but we see Uber as an illegal hire car driving, which is why we do not think it makes sense to make a reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163606	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163612	I am, of course, a little disappointed about this, also because Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten have been in the middle of the bust around stopping what is called Uber and hiding under a name that they cannot really live up to, i.e. the term "co-driving" or "share economy." The fact is that the income that Uber drivers driving around today actually have is large or small, it is very large for some people to be taken from elsewhere. That is the dilemma we face, because right now and here outside our doors taxi drivers are driving around, who can see that they have typically lost between 2,000 and 4,000 kroner. On a weekend. That's what they're telling me, because there are some others who, so to speak, are stealing the money out of their pockets... completely right by driving illegally. But we have to somehow make sure that the money actually made in those Uber cars is reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163715	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163718	I understand that the Enhedslisten is disappointed that we are not exactly on the same track anymore, because it is true that we have been doing so in the past in this debate, but I must also say that I am a little puzzled that we are choosing to go this way, because we agree that it is illegal hire car driving and should therefore be stopped. It is precisely for this reason that we do not think it makes sense that we should then start to stamp it blue by saying that if they have a reporting obligation, it is something else. So they're only semi-illegal, or is that good enough for you anyway? We do not think so, because it is still a huge distortion of competition towards ordinary taxi drivers who are indeed driving around out here, because they are subject to a lot of other rules with insurance, they must have a taximeter, they must have a camera, they must have a driver's license and comply with many other things that Uber does not comply with. So we do not think that there is a level playing field, even if you have an obligation to report, and I understand that this may of course give some money in the box, but I just do not think that you should start to be subject to reporting obligations for something that we think is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163806	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163808	Uber tells us widely that in this way they have the information already at this stage, but apologises that they have been told by the SKAT that it is not able to deal with it and that is what I have allowed myself to question in previous questions. It is equally great if the SKAT is not able to handle that kind of information. But when it turns out that Uber is actually in possession of the information that is needed, it may seem strange that we do not accept the offer, if I may say so, and ensure that those reports are received.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163845	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163847	I think it would be fantastic if Uber would deliver data on all the drivers they have to drive around out there illegally. Then you have quite easy access to having them stopped, so it would be quite fantastic if Uber would deliver that information himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163900	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. No, it's sir. Jacob Jensen. It was just because Mrs. Merete Riisager was so ready. But it's actually Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519163919	Thank you, President. I don't want it to take us apart in any way. On behalf of our rapporteur, who cannot be present, I am going to give a rapporteur's speech which reads: the Enhedslisten will ensure with the proposal here that reports to the SKAT on what amounts and what citizens have had revenue through the company's IT platform are done automatically, so that you pay the tax you have to pay. As the Minister has already mentioned, SKAT started an analysis project in spring 2016 to give SKAT a better knowledge of the activities of the shared economy, and when the results of the project are then ready, it will be discussed with the Danish Parliament's parties. The results can help to highlight possible opportunities and needs for new initiatives in this area and can help to ensure that taxes and charges are properly settled while the industry can continue to grow. Furthermore, let me stress that we do not have sanctions against companies based in other countries, and therefore the Folketing should not adopt reporting obligations for companies when there is no possibility of enforcing the rules. Against this background, I must inform you that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164029	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164042	The Left has in the past found the shared economy to be fantastic, that is, as new innovative ways of using resources, and whether it was a home or a car or something else, it was good for both the environment and wealth creation. But the left has taken a sharp turn into the more conservative corner, and the problem now is rather that the sharing economy challenges established industries and their unions and that it may lead to less tax payments. The Left has its eyes fixed on the needs of the state and not on the needs of the citizen. It seems to mean less to the extreme left that the growth that comes with innovation, better resource utilisation and new business models often also means more money in the treasury for the state, and the fear of cheating and the potential risk of the state missing a single penny weighs very heavily. In the Liberal Alliance, we will vote against B 117 and we take note of the Minister's point in relation to a permanent establishment. We also call for the tax system to operate in a way that is based on simplicity and trust and, of course, on the fight against tax fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164219	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164223	Yes, that is a brief remark, because I would just like to inform Mrs Merete Riisager that there is nothing progressive about supporting social dumping, which, after all, undermines the good and orderly working conditions that we have in this society and, as they are a cornerstone of our welfare society, it also ultimately means that it is being undermined. So the left has not turned to being conservative; on the contrary, it is very progressive to combat social dumping. It's probably LA, which is quite conservative in this game, which wants a fight with the welfare society, and that it's each man separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164306	Here you go, Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164307	No. But I wonder if the people who worked in the newspapers, who used to have written them in concrete form and put them together and put them in order, etc., when the paper was to be printed, saw it as social dumping when computerized and suddenly people came in through the door, who were able to work with computers, so that tomorrow's newspaper could be put up more quickly and efficiently. I guess they did, and that's the way it is with new business models. That is why they are progressive, and that is why they constantly lead to our society becoming richer and developing, and that is something we can combat. But there is nothing progressive about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164347	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164349	Actually, the lithographs and typographers didn't. The only thing they demanded and that was the reason for the very great conflicts in the area was to get hands on developments so that they were not run over, and I think that is very reasonable if we want to take account of the individual as well. Then I have to say with regard to this business, this business, that the taxi driving will probably continue for many years to come. It is only a question of the conditions under which it should take place, i.e. whether it should take place in accordance with the requirements of society, or whether it should just be completely wild west and a free market and no control of drivers, road hauliers or cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164428	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164429	However, if the taxi industry is to survive, we must ensure that it is able to be liberalised so that it becomes competitive. And that is where I hope that the rapporteur from the Enhedslist will be interested in helping those specific individuals who face a challenge, namely that they may be made unemployed if their industry is not given the opportunity to develop and keep up with developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164452	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164459	Thank you. What is so urgent about this motion for a resolution and that is also why it is interesting to get it up to us is that the inequality which Enhedslisten among others. talk about, and the social dumping that may occur when del-economic services are used, pirate services, and whatever we call it, is happening right now. Right now, there's someone here who's going to suffer from the fact that this new player has been put on the market. Conversely, we also look forward with the long light and say that this is a good development in many ways. This is not so compared to the fact that it may create social dumping when we bring in new services that are not yet moderated to Danish society, but in the long term this creates some fantastic opportunities for both Denmark and the rest of the world. This is a way of involving citizens, including those who are otherwise outside the labour market, to enter and become part of an economy on their very own terms that might improve the taxi industry's long-term conditions. The problem is just and there I very much agree with the proposers that this is not what you hear when you're sitting out in a taxi right now. It's not that this is positive, but it's that some people feel that you're going in and working on other terms in this new economy that comes in and that we're looking at positively in the alternative. So right now it is a problem, and that is why I want to say yes to this motion for a resolution. On the other hand, I have to stick to what I actually sincerely believe should be done, and that is to follow the process initiated by the tax minister and which I thought was practically the right one from the outset. What I can then be worried about is whether it is going as fast as it should now, in that the problem is there right now and here. So the process that has been set in motion is not only a question of whether SKAT can handle it in terms of data, and whether we have the solutions that are needed to put that regulation or reporting in place immediately, but it is also a question of whether the solution we then choose to use is also one that points forward and whether it might help the taxi industry in the future. So our position in the Alternative is that you can only push for the process by the Treasury to be as fast as possible, and it is a little easy for me to say, in that the alternative has not been here for so long. But that might have been something you should have had up on the big blade even earlier. But that is too easy, in that we have certainly not raised the debate ourselves before. So it will be such a either-or, that is: yes, we think it is a good idea, but we would rather follow the process that has been set up, and I think that is the way we get the best results.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164741	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164745	Yes, and precisely in relation to the remarks about the process and whether it has started early enough and so on, I would like to hear what the comment is about, that the tax minister has announced that there is a result of this analysis process in the middle of 2017, i.e. in about a year or so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164810	If you look at the size of the shared economy and the upheaval we choose to call it a shared economy, knowing that it also has some kinds of times that are much less positive than sharing something that has led to it around the world, where it has changed structures in the labour market and business, then I do not really think it is a very long time horizon. I think that is very reasonable. However, in relation to the problem of taxi drivers, things are going too slowly. So of two evils, we choose what we think is the most pointing forward. It's too slow, but I don't want to say it's the tax minister's fault. I think we have simply been overtaken by developments and perhaps not quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164849	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519164900	That's no more than approx. A week ago that I also had the opportunity to discuss task force and Uber. So now there is a proposal that we should focus attention on Uber and, in particular, on the tax side of it. In the Radical Left, we are open to the new technology. We are open to new digital business models that we find both at Uber, at Airbnb and elsewhere. I also said last week that this is a development that we can see some have chosen, and it enjoys some popularity among young people. We may think that this may be a development that we regret and we may think it is a major challenge and it is, however, of course, we agree with the proposers that this should be done in a well-ordered manner. I also said that in the previous debate and there should be no unfair competition. We are also aware of the problems of tax payments and we cannot deny that in future legislation, perhaps in the context of taxi legislation, some elements of this reporting obligation can be incorporated. It is certainly certain that technologically this kind of thing is not difficult. When you have already set up the whole digital apparatus, it may not be so difficult to do purely technologically, but it is perhaps legal, as the Minister of Taxation has also indicated. If we do not support the proposal, it is one of them. We are also awaiting the judgments in this area. We are also pleased that SKAT has a major analysis project under way, and we would also like to wait for that. When we discuss speed and that was the last rapporteur's point, it is in this area that things are moving very fast. It may be true that it is difficult for SKAT to carry out an analysis much faster than it is going on, but it must be pointed out that things are changing so strongly that there is also reason to ask SKAT to hurry, because this is how things are going almost stronger than that one can keep up with. We do not want to support the proposal immediately, but we are aware of all the problems involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519165124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519165136	Thank you. When I was going to my girlfriend's wedding in Aarhus this weekend and we were still driving, there was no reason to have half a car all the way over there, so we got some young people with whom we paid a small contribution. I also had my apartment rented in the past when I myself was on vacation, it was also a contribution. These are good examples of shared economy where it will be a contribution, it will not be your income, it will not be a kind of day-to-day work, and I think that is precisely why, as Enhedslisten also says, we should not abuse the word shared economy either. There are also areas where it becomes a basis for earnings for some people without a safety net, without any of the privileges that the trade union movement has won for more than 100 years. Just as well and excitingly, it is with a number of new companies emerging within the shared economy, just as we must insist that it is not new and exciting to have a grey labour market where there are some who work without proper working conditions, without any of the rights they have won in the labour market. It's not new and progressive, it's really, really old-fashioned. A hundred years ago there were exactly day owners who had to come to work to see if there was anything to do at all. The SF supports this, while also recognising that the Minister has set work in motion. This may sound a bit like a contradiction, but I do not really think it is, especially in relation to some of these companies that we have talked to, they have said so at least when we have had consultations, consultations and so on. They can do that, they are not interested in it becoming an area where the political focus all of a sudden is that it is going to be a billion-dollar loss for the Treasury. That is why I think that we should embrace as much as we should hugging where it really is del-economic companies, so we must also have systems in place to ensure that the tax that is now due is of course paid. I think there are some really exciting perspectives in a lot of companies where it is really shared economy. And then there are some who are trying to cling to this concept, because it's new and exciting and we're many who can see perspectives in it. So SF supports Enhedslisten's proposals, both because the work that has been started has quite a long prospect, and also because we have to challenge it a little, that because some of these companies have their registered offices elsewhere than Denmark, it should be difficult. We have to insist that when you still have all this information, and many of these apps-based companies do, and they do, you can go in and see how much you have earned, so you're sure to stay below the limit, so we have to get some systems going. So SF supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519165452	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. The Conservative rapporteur is not here? Yes, the Conservative rapporteur is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519165518	I'm sorry, President. I have just entered the door, but I have to say that we cannot support the motion for a resolution. There should be no doubt that we believe that tax should be paid when you have a professional income of the kind that has been sought here with the resolution, but actually for the same reasons that the Socialists indicated to Mr. In his rapporteur's speech, Jeppe Bruus, we also believe that we must wait for the negotiations and not be able to adopt partial elements on the basis of isolated motions for resolutions. That is why I have to say that we really have sympathy for the aim of the resolution here, but we are making a comprehensive package of taxi legislation, and there, of course, I would also call for this to be done relatively quickly, as there is a very great frustration, which must also be said to be justified, in the industry at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519165611	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519165626	Thank you. One might say that in reality this resolution is or should be like kicking in an open door. There is a reporting obligation in this society for anyone who pays wages or salaries or bonuses or whatever it's all called. After all, there is not the movement in our bank accounts that is not reported, etc. I simply do not understand why Uber and Uber drivers should be exempt from this simply because they claim to be something other than what they are. It relates to the whole discussion about the shared economy, that just because you, like Uber, claim to be a shared economy and that you are a co-driving, you do not necessarily have to be a shared economy. And I would venture to claim that you are certainly not. One might wonder why a case was brought in the first place against these Uber drivers. When Uber established himself, the Traffic Authority started reporting them for illegal taxi service. But it took a really, really long time before the case was set up, and it also took a really, really long time before the Copenhagen Police Department. So far it's a problem first and foremost in Copenhagen... got together to start stopping some of these Uber drivers and complaining about them. That's what you might be wondering. In fact, it was only at the end of 2015, and I say that a little in relation to the question that Mr. René Gade asked: Why haven't we started anything before? That is exactly what the many taxi drivers and truckmen out here on the street wonder about, namely why it would take so long, why the authorities took so long to get into gear, when, in fact, in the same second that Uber established himself, the Traffic Authority did not have any doubt that it was illegal and reported them. There you could have thought and it might have happened in other situations that this was so much revenue, at least for Uber drivers, who were not taxed, that the SKAT and police would be very, very busy coming after this problem. But it didn't actually happen. In fact, the opposite happened: the taxi drivers and taxi drivers, who are currently working together in a working group called Taxi drivers in Denmark, have documented that at some point the Copenhagen Police actually replied to their request about why nothing happened when they reported some people, saying that there had been instructions that there should be a relaxed danger here. One might wonder, because Article 1 of the Taxi Code clearly states that taxi driving and commercial passenger transport require authorisation. And Article 1 of the Taxi Order clearly defines what commercial passenger transport is, namely that it is transport that is carried out without having a close link with the person, undertaking or association carrying out the journey and driving that is carried out for consideration. In fact, the taxi regulation also has a very, very clear definition of what part car and co-driving concepts are for something, namely that it is not commercial passenger transport, i.e. that it is not run for consideration, but only run for an amount corresponding to the direct costs of driving, i.e. oil and petrol. It is mentioned directly in the taxi notice. So for us, there is no doubt that Uber is engaged in illegal taxi driving. What is happening is commercial passenger transport, which is why we think it is amazing that so long has elapsed and that we must continue to await an analysis of the economies of parts. So it's amazing that the authorities have no interest in getting this off as soon as possible. Now there's a lawsuit pending against some Uber drivers. It was scheduled for the end of April and the next trial will take place on 16 June. Depending on the outcome of the judgment, one can imagine that it is being appealed, and then it can take another 1-2 years. And then we can continue to hear people say from the platform: well there is a case pending, we have the division of power, and we are legislators. Meanwhile, there are some taxi drivers and some taxi truckmen out there who lose between 2,000 kroner every weekend. and 4,000 kroner. to pirate taxis. That's what they're telling me. Quite a lot of people tell me, and they do it independently of each other. I think it's amazing that we have so much time in here. But okay, we're not threatened on the wallet either. Somebody else is, and I don't know if that's what makes us less busy in here. It can then be said that, whatever the outcome of the trial against Uber drivers, an alert must in any case be issued. Everyone knows that some money is being generated in those cars. It's not just one thing or the other. Some money is actually being generated, and it is likely that a report will have to be made on the income that drivers get when driving. That is in itself what this motion for a resolution is trying to address. We think it's bad enough that Uber doesn't pay corporation tax. You can see that, because it appears from the open tax lists, but that there is no registration and no reporting of income in the cars, in our opinion is quite grotesque, especially when Uber himself travels around and tells that they have the information to do and that they have been told by SKAT that the information is SKAT is not able to handle. I have to admit that I simply do not believe that. It cannot be that the IRS, which is able to handle all sorts of strange reports of revenue of all sorts, should not be able to handle these reports. So, of course, I must say that this is a story that Uber is trying to tie us all on the sleeve, and therefore I do not think there is any reason why SKAT should not go into this matter and press for clarification. It must also be the duty of every tax minister to do so, and at the same time it must be a great pleasure, it should be thought, for the tax minister to ensure that actually payments are made to the common fund. Therefore, it could of course also be interesting to know what status is on the dialogue that the Minister has promised to initiate with the companies that are in progress, among other things. with companies such as Uber on their tax reports. It might also be exciting to hear whether the Minister will take the initiative that SKAT will in future be able to control the earnings of people driving passengers for Uber, whether it is part of the negotiations, whether it is part of the dialogue. It is true that Uber is a company based abroad, and we then have some difficulty in coming after them, but I should like to say that they have a driving office in our opinion and, in the opinion of the Transport Authority, also an illegal driving office in Østerbro. I'm not quite sure how they're registered, but maybe it was something for SKAT to look at. There are 10 to 12 people employed out there and they are engaged in being a driving office like any other driving office. So maybe there's something to come after there too. Is this part of the dialogue and will it be taken into account that SKAT will in future be able to gain insight into revenue from those who have had income from Uberdrift? When I ask about it, it is also because we have received an answer to question 348 on how many people have registered Uber's income, that is to say this voluntary payment, one could almost say. And it's quite clear that SKAT has no overview of this. It also puts a great question mark over the idea that I believe the Minister of Taxation has expressed, namely that it is perhaps a way forward to invest in voluntary payments. Now, of course, we have to see the specific arrangements, but I must admit that I have no confidence that this will ever work. It was supposed to be the first place where it really was supposed to work. And this is quite a lot of people. There are thousands of people driving Uberbil. To bet that they should voluntarily give up their income, I think is simply naive, except that Uber operates with the idea that you can get your salary paid in Germany if you think it's funny, or in Afghanistan, if you think it's funny. And it can be quite, quite difficult to come after that money. Sweden and Norway, whose legislation is not far from the Danish one, have, of course, convicted Uberdrift illegally, and that is also why Uber is withdrawing from Sweden at this time. I cannot say that there is strong support for the proposal in this Chamber today, but we are looking forward to proper committee reading as part of the discussions that are taking place on the illegal taxi traffic that is taking place right under our noses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519170631	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was just in the minute. Yeah, that's what happens sometimes, that's great. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519170651	The debate is open. It's the tax minister first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519170716	Thank you very much. The title of the motion for a resolution from the Alternative, Enhedslisten and SF is greater publicity in the negotiations on double taxation agreements. As an expansion and updating of Denmark's portfolio of double taxation agreements has a high priority for me as Minister of Taxation, I would like to sign for this opportunity to debate the process itself in the Folketing. With the motion for a resolution, the three parties wish to require the government to give the Folketing and the public an insight into negotiations on the conclusion of double taxation agreements. In reading the proposal, the inclusion must take place both before and during a negotiation process. The aim is, among other things, to: to enable the public to contribute to the negotiations. In general, there has been a practice in the past that no information was provided on ongoing or envisaged negotiations on double taxation agreements. On receipt of the negotiating requests, however, they have been sent in consultation by a number of professional organisations. And I agree that this process has been carried by too much secrecy. That is also why, at the beginning of 2016, I have established a special double taxation task force, that is, before this motion for a resolution is tabled. This is a forum for cooperation between the Ministry of Taxation and selected business organisations. And a task force is, of course, best not to use English expressions in the Assembly Hall, a composite force that is working towards a common goal if some would like to have it deepened. But this total strength is a measure to ensure input also outside the Treasury's houses, and the business community is close. They're the ones who know where the shoe prints. The input from industry will therefore help to qualify the basis for decision in relation to which countries it is appropriate to have a double taxation agreement with, i.e. a DBO, as is stated in the daily speech, and which agreements may need to be renegotiated. The aim of this overall strength, i.e. the Treasury and the business community together, is to strengthen the dialogue in a brief way, and it must be a forum for the exchange of wishes and experiences and views. That is not to say that there are not other actors who can contribute relevant inputs as well. I am also interested in other points of view and in this respect I am open to the idea of a dialogue with relevant stakeholders on the conclusion of DBOs from a development perspective. In fact, I have already had a few meetings with some of the development organisations which have had an obvious agenda in this area, among others. Interfolk Samvirke and IBIS. Negotiations on the conclusion of double taxation agreements shall be conducted by the Ministry of Taxation on behalf of the Government currently in office at all times. The negotiations are based on a substantive framework that has so far been fully politically supportive. The draft laws on the conclusion of double taxation agreements have also so far been adopted by the Folketing. I'm glad, and I'd like to sign for that. External representatives shall not be involved during the negotiation process itself. This is to be seen in the light of the fact that a double taxation agreement is the result of a political negotiation between two countries, and we know from other contexts that the possibility that things can be done in confidence often offers a greater guarantee that a workable result can be achieved. The same applies in the case of double taxation agreements. I can compare this with the fact that financial law negotiations are also taking place behind closed doors in Denmark. Negotiations on the economy of the municipalities take place behind closed doors. Negotiations on wage conditions in private companies take place behind closed doors. And that is the way negotiations are open and closed when there is good reason to do so. I would like to say that it is not my wish to keep the Folketing out of this closed process. As recently as November last year, in a reply to the Committee on Taxation on the status of double taxation agreements, I gave the committee an offer of confidential oral information on what is going on in the DBO area. That is not what the Committee on Taxation wanted, but I would like to say here today that it is a commitment I made in the autumn and that it is still valid. So I agree with the intentions behind the resolution, namely greater openness with regard to the DBO area. I have also already taken the initiative to introduce greater openness, in line with the previously mentioned joint effort force with industry, the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the dialogue with relevant development organisations. However, I do not agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution when it comes to the extent of transparency. A negotiation of a double taxation agreement should take place in a space of mutual confidentiality and discretion between the parties. It is also important that the other party has a clear view of the existence of a negotiating mandate. In other words, in the real world, we cannot conduct a process of negotiation in which the public is involved in the negotiations pending, at least not when it comes to the DBO area. It is also worth bearing in mind that a double taxation agreement is the expression of a compromise whereby agreement is reached on the basis of the action taken by each of the participating countries. So the decisive factor is the overall result and not an isolated assessment of each element. In spite of the good intentions, it is therefore considered that the degree of transparency envisaged in the motion for a resolution is too far-reaching in the view of the Government and would risk having a negative impact on the possibility of concluding double taxation agreements. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171314	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171318	Thank you, and thank you for your review. And I can say that before we put forward the proposal here, I enjoyed a good sparring from the tax minister in particular. And despite the fact that I was also able to hear that the intentions far along the way were the same, we chose to make the proposals anyway, or rather a proposal one. And I would like to ask the tax minister whether he can follow that precisely when it is done in relation to a developing country, this debate is different from if we are talking about a negotiation between two equal countries or two companies, where confidentiality will also do something about pricing and the final assessment of whether the agreement has been good or not. In relation to a developing country, I and the alternative, at least, see that there is already a development going on, either in the form of development aid or other ways we help the country in Denmark if it is not specifically Denmark, then at least there are other organisations that do so and therefore it is a slightly different situation. In other words, in relation to the secrecy surrounding the debate that would normally be considered necessary for Denmark to achieve a good result, that is, where it was we who got the best result, can the tax minister follow that perhaps it is not the same thing that we should do with a developing country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171441	Well, I think you would just run into the fact that in this area some countries need to enter a negotiating room. And you only enter into a double taxation agreement if both countries get something out of it. So I don't think it's like in the thought example that Denmark goes in and forces the arm on the back of a developing country. So if that should happen, I just think the developing country chooses to say: then we won't make a double taxation agreement with you. And if it happens that Denmark or other countries are rushing too hard, the country with which you are negotiating has the opportunity to say: we are terminating the DBO; we want it renegotiated. So I don't subscribe to it. I understand, sir. René Gade is talking about, and I also understand the general desire for openness, and that is something that I, as Minister of Taxation, advocate, but sometimes we have to recognise that some negotiations are best conducted in a closed negotiating room. And then you should have the opportunity to gain insight into the result and the process and something like that afterwards. So this is also the starting point in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171547	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171549	I would like to acknowledge that the expectations from the alternative to the tax minister are very, very great, because I actually believe that Denmark makes it very sensible, and I do not think anyone in Denmark is trying to twist the arm of anyone. But, on the other hand, we in Denmark have a duty to take the lead, and I can see that it will be difficult when we talk about competition in relation to other countries. But if we in Denmark are to take the lead, it is not enough to say in my view that this is not something we are going to do and that the developing countries can simply say no. I believe that we have a duty to actually create a situation where it is not about how much we can get away with or how little we can get away with towards developing countries, but where we are simply trying to develop in this debate. Can the Minister follow me in this, even if it is hard odds and high expectations, in relation to that role?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171641	So, I think that Denmark behaves, as is the case in most other areas, such as the duck in the class when we negotiate DBOs, and respects the views of the countries with which we negotiate. We are so committed to certain principles and we can always discuss them, but I think that most of them are sensible and we should touch on that in the next resolution. I just do not see the need or desire for 100% transparency in this area, nor have I seen that it is a wish that has been expressed by developing countries. And that is why I say, although I understand the intentions and praises and acknowledge them, that in this area we in the government do not want to go as far as the Alternative, SF and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171722	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171725	After all, this proposal stems largely from an event from November 2014, when a draft law following a double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ghana was examined and which meant that Danish companies operating in Ghana actually pay a lower tax than corresponding Ghanaian companies should do. It should be understood that if a Danish company with a subsidiary operating in Ghana transfers the dividends to Denmark, it will only have to pay 5%, but if a similar Ghanaian company does the same, it will have to pay 8% in accordance with the laws in force in Ghana. It was that imbalance that suddenly arose and that made one realise that hoof, here is something we need to look at a little more closely. Then it is not the tax minister's view that if there were a little more openness and a little more transparency, perhaps some fairer agreements could be made between, for example. Denmark and Ghana?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171833	Actually, it's not. In fact, I do not believe that this will necessarily lead to fairer agreements. We can always discuss the content of a double taxation agreement, but basically I do not subscribe to the view that developing countries do not understand the papers. I'm not saying that's it either, sir. Rune Lund says, but there are some who could produce it in such a way that they do not understand the papers, that they do not have the experts and that they cannot negotiate. I am therefore of the opinion, and that is also the answer I get when I ask in the Treasury that you are fully professionally qualified in developing countries to negotiate these DBOs, and you have some very talented people to sit on that task, also because it can have a great impact on the country. It is best for some debates to take place behind closed doors, and then we can always discuss access to transparency afterwards, but I do not believe that we can, for example. I would like to see a better financial law process if all the negotiating meetings were open; in fact, I do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171928	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519171929	However, in the debate we have on development policy in this country, we are always very concerned about the fact that the developing countries must have well-functioning tax systems and that they must guarantee the tax revenue which, as it were, belongs to them. And if there had been a more public process in the context of the double taxation agreement concluded between Denmark and Ghana, one could have imagined that in the context of a consultation process some organisations had raised the debate on whether our overall principles for providing development aid were related to the specific agreement here, and then I think there would have been a political pressure to change the agreement so that Danish companies became equal to Ghanaian and did not get a better position just because Danish companies come from a richer country than Ghanaian companies do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172018	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172018-2	This is a hypothetical situation that I tried to answer before. After all, the Folketing is welcome, and that is what I tried to signal this autumn, to get an information about it, because I would like to share what is there, and I would also like to discuss the principles underlying our double taxation agreement. I just have a political agenda for us to conclude more double taxation agreements and not fewer, and that is because I believe that in the vast majority of cases double taxation agreements are beneficial to both countries that enter into them. After all, this is a mutual agreement, and we must work more together on taxation, including with developing countries. So I think that's the most practical way forward. However, I am happy to give the commitment to a confidential briefing to the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172101	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172104	Thank you. When we discussed DBO with Ghana a long time ago the first time, of course the Minister was not a minister, but it was then, among other things, a minister. in view of the fact that there were a number of organisations which also had some criticisms in connection with the double taxation agreement, inter alia: Interfolk Collaborate, who both addressed some things about the irony that having a double taxation agreement could actually open up some new tax holes... let it lie now, but first and foremost that, as Mr. Rune Lund also mentioned that there are no two completely equal parties. These are poor developing countries, which may think that this agreement is better than what they have today, but that it is not fair in comparison with, for example, the United States. Danish companies are given a favourable treatment in relation to existing tax systems. Does the tax minister make an impression when organisations working with developing countries make such criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172216	Yes, when someone makes an objective criticism and makes it constructive, it always makes an impression on me. It doesn't always make me change my mind or my mind or any of the things, but it does of course make an impression. And it does, of course, when there are some developing countries' organisations that mention this issue. But I think that the system we have is a good one. There is also a problem such as that raised by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen to some countries of the European Union that have created special advantages to attract foreign companies, where you can get various subsidies, establishment costs covered and others. This is what you do to lure businesses into. As I understand the developing countries, including the large number of medium- and low-income countries I have visited, they want to attract businesses. They would very much like to attract Danish companies, because Danish companies behave properly. And that's why we have to make these double taxation agreements so that we can have growth and development for the benefit of the developing countries as well as for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172326	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172330	But isn't it a little strange that we spend quite a lot of money and resources on, for example. helping to get tax systems up? Just before this double taxation agreement was made, a tax and development programme was launched in Ghana, because one of the most important things for these countries is to have proper and robust tax systems. At the same time, we are moving the source tax to the home country because some of the taxes that would otherwise have been paid in Ghana are moving out of the country to Denmark. Is it not a little strange that we are using resources to equip them, to help them work with their own tax systems, and then we are actually taking some of the tax in the form of the agreements we are entering into?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172415-2	Not necessarily. It is also the case in Denmark that if you are taxable to Denmark, invest in Danish shares, you have to pay a tax rate of return, of the share yield. If you live abroad, you'll get out cheaper. You may think that is fair or unfair, but it is a system that we are elected because we want foreign investors to invest in Denmark. So you can have that point of view. And that is why it may well be reflected in the double taxation agreements, without necessarily leading to some problems in it. It should also be borne in mind that no double taxation agreement will be concluded until both parties agree. And that gives quite a lot to both countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172455	Thank you, Minister. Then we need to get to work on the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172509	Thank you. I am largely covered by the Minister's remarks. We agree that it may be sensible to create more openness in the area of double taxation, which is, in many ways, surrounded by mystery. However, the aim of making double taxation agreements is to ensure that the tax authorities of two countries have coordinated tax systems, which are different from one country to another, so that they play better together and create good conditions for trade and business to take place across the borders of the two countries. Just to make it quite clear that Denmark cannot and does not want, as I understand it, to force developing countries to conclude double taxation agreements which they do not have a wish or an interest in concluding. It used to be the same. So for us there is no question in itself of the way in which double taxation agreements are being negotiated today. There is no room for negotiation that can be said to be powerless, and there is no such thing when dealing with double taxation agreements. This, of course, places a responsibility on us to be fair, even when we are defending the interests of the state and our own companies in these negotiations. So we do not think it is possible to give insight into pending and future negotiations during the course of the negotiations. It would not be beneficial to make agreements with other countries that there should be such ongoing openness. However, we would like to help to qualify the process prior to the opening of negotiations on a possible double taxation agreement with a developing country. After all, there is a dialogue today with companies which know where the impression is in possible trade between countries. They will therefore be involved in advance, and this is a practice which we think can easily be extended. We will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution here, but we believe that a report can be produced in the Committee on Taxation, in which such a prior consultation process will be extended to development organisations in cases where it is a question of negotiating with a developing country and so we know that these negotiations are ongoing and we can give our input as a development organisation without, on the other hand, having the opportunity to keep up with the negotiations along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172738	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172743	Thank you. By its very nature, double taxation agreements can be a very good idea because, ideally, they ensure both that there is no double taxation and that there is no double non-taxation. But in reality that is what you sometimes see. Interfolk Samvirke had an example with a Dutch brewery, which used a DBO with Ghana, where there was a huge gap between the different tax rates, to in a way secure something near a double non-taxation. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable and I am pleased that the rapporteur recognised that there is no power-free space and that a rich country of course has more muscles to play with than a poor country to undermine local tax systems in countries that perhaps even more need fair taxation than we do, i.e. that Danish companies in Ghana are being made less expensive than local ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172851	Thank you. The minister. No, I am sorry, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172853	Barely enough, yet. The polls indicate it, but let's see. On the question, I would like to say that I agree that there are examples of countries abusing the negotiating position they have, but I just do not think that this is the case with Denmark. To the preliminary remark made by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, I would like to say that a double taxation agreement is a good idea as a starting point, and if a country is not satisfied with the way in which an agreement is made, then it is possible not to make it. But I think that criticism of the Netherlands and others may be reasonable; I just do not think it is relevant to Denmark. However, one way of ensuring that there is a knowledge of what is going on with negotiations may be to ensure that development organisations are informed in a more systematic way than the Minister has done so far about the opening of negotiations on such agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519172959	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173005	There are several things I would like to comment on. The rapporteur said that one can not vote in favour, but is it not a rather strange starting point to have to say that you must not know anything about the process or come up with amendments or anything; either you can choose to vote in favour or against? That was the argument that the SF ended up voting in favour of the agreement because it had already been concluded. But that is why it is possible to criticize the way in which it has been concluded and to criticize, for example, the way in which it has been concluded. dividends and dividends are taxed at 5%. in relation to this agreement, where it is normally taxed at 8% in Ghana, and interest rates at 8% in Ghana, where they are taxed at 10%. Is it not strange that we are undermining the Ghanaian tax system while spending money on actually arming their tax system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173056	I think it is an incredibly good and long-term way of helping countries that are currently in a difficult situation to build their tax system. And a significant contribution with the development aid that Denmark can provide is precisely to help with it. But, on the other hand, we do not conduct development policy through making agreements on double taxation, where we take care of our own country's interest in negotiating with a developing country • sometimes it is the type of country with which we are negotiating. And that's where the country in question can decide whether or not they are interested in making an appointment and I didn't talk about the treatment in the Danish Parliament. The agreement with Ghana is, of course, made where they know what other agreements they have, and yet they must think that it is a fair agreement to have made with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173146	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173150	I'm glad. The proposal for a resolution was precisely that we should create greater transparency. We can then disagree on how double taxation is to be used by Denmark in general, but what is being proposed by the rapporteur is precisely that we want to help create greater transparency. We may be inclined to say that we would also like to have it during the negotiations in some form, while the rapporteur says that it should be done before the negotiations. It is certainly a step on the way for us. Then I think we can get back to the differences later. So it was really just an acknowledgment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173223	It has been received and let us work on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173228	No more from Mr. Knox. René Gade? Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173241	Here we are discussing a proposal from the Alternative, Enhedslisten and SF, which is about the desire to create more openness on Denmark's negotiations on double taxation agreements with other states. There is a danger that there will be a number of repetitions, because I have some of the same positions that have already come from the two previous ones. In short, it is about the idea that open doors should be negotiated when negotiating with foreign states and countries. We in the Danish People's Party believe this to be the case. In general, when two parties negotiate it doesn't matter whether it's between countries, parties between municipalities, between companies, or whether it's even two citizens who have to shop the house then it happens behind closed doors. There are quite good and reasonable reasons for this, because then compromises can be found. It is therefore harder to find compromises if you do everything for open doors. We don't think that sounds like a good idea. But the second part of the resolution, which is actually a different angle, is about involving people. I think that is quite reasonable. I also think it is fine, as I heard the Minister of Taxation say, that he will make an offer to the parties of the Folketing that you can ask for information when double taxation agreements are under way if we think we need it. But I also think it is a good initiative with this double taxation treaty task force. In connection with it there is precisely a cooperation between SKAT and business organisations to find out where the shoe is pressed. Where can double taxation or non-taxation be found to distort competition? I think it is a good thing that we get the input, and I think it would be quite natural if we could expand the circle and involve several parties, as the Socialists also mention. It could be development aid organisations or others that could provide different inputs. I think that could be a good way to go because people are getting involved in these things. But on the other hand, I have to say that when you sit at a negotiating table, there is a good reason why this is a closed process and I do not think we should open it up there. Otherwise, however, more involvement and more openness will be good before we enter the negotiating table. With those words, I can say that we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173457	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173501	One of the reasons why we do not see the agreement until it is too late may also be the content of the agreement. Now I know that DF's rapporteur, like the rest of us, is also very concerned about the whole tax sounding debate or about the fact that taxes are paid at all. So what does the rapporteur think, I think, is Chapter 5 of the permanent establishment agreement, where this has been set at 9 months in this specific agreement, whereas, according to Ghanaian law, it is 90 days, and in most DBOs Denmark has made, it is 6 months? This means that no tax will be levied in Ghana, but no tax will be levied in Denmark either, because we do not tax foreign branches. So if you are just in Ghana under 9 months, no tax will be levied by Ghanaian authorities or Danish authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173553	I have to confess honestly that I have not prepared for the double taxation agreement with Ghana before this debate, because it is not really part of the presentation that has been made. However, I think that double taxation agreements are basically good for avoiding double taxation, but also for avoiding taxation. I would basically say that when Denmark enters into agreements, it is precisely in a debate where both parties must be able to see themselves in the agreement before you go out the door and report back to your national parliament. That is why I strongly assume that the Ghanaian Parliament and the Ghanaian Government have thought that this was actually an excellent agreement for Ghana, just as we thought it was in Denmark because, after all, a majority voted in favour of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173630	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173632	Thank you. After all, it has been a long time since we discussed DBO with Ghana, so now I listed the content of this extension of the concept of permanent establishment and asked the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think of nine months before the term permanent establishment takes place? For the whole concept is that tax must be paid in one of the countries. That's what we keep telling ourselves. But as long as you're just under 9 months old, no taxes are paid in one place or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173706-2	I'm sorry. This could be a very exciting discussion, but I have not prepared for it, and I have no opinion on Ghana at all today. I have prepared myself for this resolution and not for a paragraph in the agreement with Ghana, so I regret that I cannot take that debate on a factual basis today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173722	Thank you. I am sorry, the rapporteur must stay here because there is just one brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær Sorry I was going down). The next brief remark is from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173738	It may also be that the rapporteur was just coming down to me and then we could have done this. What I want to make sure is that the rapporteur will not confuse what we are proposing when we say greater transparency with the fact that there must be completely armed doors while you sit and sign them. Because when we say that there must be greater transparency in the negotiations, it is because double taxation agreements can last for a very long time. I think that the image that the rapporteur is going to give, perhaps unintentionally, is that we want to sit and negotiate in front of open doors when we say that the public must be involved and that there must be consultation opportunities and that, in a negotiating situation, we want to demand that everyone should be in space in a completely immodest way. It's not that. So I just want to make sure that the rapporteur agrees that what we are proposing is that, in this often very long process before, during and after, as far as possible, we inform about everything that can be informed, so that the people here in Denmark are aware of what is really at stake when we talk about inequality in the world and what might make a developing country drained.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173840-2	I actually agree that you can inform a lot before and after, but the hard part is to do it during the process. One can make a very good parallel to the Folketing, where we as parties also involve a lot of knowledge from organisations, individuals and people from companies who want to influence us and tell us why it is exactly in their direction that they want things to be drawn into a negotiation process. But on the other hand, we do not sit and carry them at the table or hand over papers to them and have them in the detail. You can have that before a government presentation comes and afterwards when you have made the agreement. But inside the room itself there has to be a confidence so that you can sit and try to find compromises. This is really just the boundary I think there should be in it, namely that you do not have a completely open process there, even though it may take a long time to do so. However, it causes a number of problems if, in such a process, you put all the papers on the table, because then you do not have the confidence with the other party that allows you to find good compromises.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173933	Sir. René Gade? No, the rapporteur lets go, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519173949	Thank you. On behalf of the Left rapporteur, I shall read out the rapporteur's speech, which reads: the alternative, Enhedslisten and SF propose greater openness on the negotiation of double taxation agreements. The motion for a resolution states that the authors of the motion believe that the confidentiality which surrounds the negotiations on double taxation agreements today is an obstacle to the democratic process. Openness is a good thing. I agree with that. And then there are those cases where confidentiality is required in order to get anywhere with the negotiations at all. These cases arise particularly in negotiations between Denmark and foreign nations, which are, after all, the subject of negotiations on double taxation agreements. Confidentiality is not necessarily the same as secrecy. This is a prerequisite for achieving fruitful results and, moreover, is a condition known from other negotiations. It could be about the Finance Act, which I myself know a little about, negotiations between the social partners or in other relevant areas. The pretext for wanting more openness is a concern for the negotiating position of low- and middle-income countries vis-à-vis Denmark. We in the Left do not believe that it is necessarily strengthened by total openness. On the contrary, it might be imagined that countries where the democratic process or tradition is not so strong may even be frightened away if they are to negotiate under the conditions that the proposers want. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174121	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174146	The Enhedslisten thinks it is very positive that Denmark is working towards setting up double taxation agreements. After all, it is an important tool for dealing with tax payments across borders and ensuring that tax is paid in the country in which tax is actually payable. The unitary list is also a co-sponsor of this proposal, because the problem may be that the double taxation agreements can be used by the strong party, namely the country, to create conditions favourable to itself, at the expense of the developing country. And we saw an example of this when Denmark made a double taxation agreement with Ghana in 2014. The terms were simply for Denmark's benefit and for Ghana's disadvantage. And a great deal of criticism was made by a number of NGOs working on the problem that developing countries often become losers in the global tax circus. The Enhedslisten also then criticised the way in which the agreement was linked, and that is why, as I said, we are co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution together with the SF and the Alternative. The Enhedslisten believes it is only fair that our actor, in terms of how we make these double taxation agreements, should become a political issue which we can democratically discuss in the Folketing. As it is now, it is actually laid in the hands of the civil service and the ministry. After all, it is a question of giving an insight into pending and future negotiations on the conclusion of double taxation agreements with foreign states, including by starting a consultation process at the latest at the start of the negotiations. There is nothing in this proposal that implies such total openness, as if video cameras were to be set up in the negotiating rooms so that there could not be a closed room for negotiation. It is simply a question of creating openness about the negotiations so that an insight can be created into the negotiations, so that external parties can be NGOs, it can be other stakeholders, it can be companies • can contribute more sensibly. Now it seems that there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament who would like to look at the possibility of having more openness. That is at least how I hear both the rapporteur for the Socialists and the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. We will see how far we can go when we get to committee. But it is really based on the same principle: greater openness and greater insight into the negotiations, and if we can look at some progress there, it is clearly something that the Enhedslisten will be very positive about. We believe that the consultation tool should be used in this context. It would be good for the process if we could involve more of the knowledge, for example. NGOs working in tax matters and developing countries have and are actually being consulted in the process. Then it's a little funny about this fear of openness. Well, these are discussions that we have also had in the Folketing before. When I was in Parliament back in the '00s, it was the case that the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Europe were closed and there was a lot of nervousness that these meetings should be open. Sir. Keld Albrechtsen, who was a member of the Danish Parliament for the Enhedslisten before the time I arrived in the Danish Parliament in the 00s, had tabled a motion for a resolution in this Chamber that the meetings should be open. And then it happened that, despite opposition, there was a majority on a single mandate in the European Committee, consisting of the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, who wanted the open meetings of the European Committee. In fact, the alternative majority became a wallbreaker for the open meetings to be held, even when negotiations were discussed, which in principle are part of the same thing that is going on here, where they say: the European Committee must give a mandate, and this is not, of course, the same as being allowed right into the negotiating room, but you are told what the guidelines are, what the mandate is, what the government is looking for, what it is, what it is, what it is, and where it is, the negotiations are. This kind of expression and this kind of knowledge is something that the entire Danish population can follow in parliamentary television, and then it must also be possible in some way to create some kind of openness when we talk about these double taxation agreements, that is to say to involve the public more and give the public an insight into ongoing and future negotiations. We are behind this motion for a resolution, so of course we intend to vote in favour, but we will of course also take a very positive approach to the work of the committee on a report which can, if nothing else, move us towards a goal of more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174612	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174625	Double taxation agreements are important. In addition to working to reduce taxation for people and companies in Denmark and to create a simpler and more transparent tax system, we must also ensure that our taxation is adjusted and adjusted in relation to the outside world. This is happening, among other things. by concluding double taxation agreements. When such an agreement is reached, it is to be expected that it will benefit both countries, otherwise such an agreement will probably not be reached at all. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very pleased that the government has set up a task force in this area so that agreements can be speeded up. We in the Liberal Alliance are great advocates of openness, but we also respect the fact that the negotiation between two countries in the context of a double taxation agreement must take place in a political process where there is confidentiality between the parties, which is why we cannot have complete openness about all processes. And we are satisfied with the way in which the government handles it, and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174734	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174752	On the part of the Radical Left, we are usually in favour of openness and transparency, and so are we in this case. We can therefore support the proposal. I have, however, taken note of the Minister's reservations in the course of negotiations, but the rapporteur for the proposers has already solved what he understands by transparency, and I am satisfied with that. So I can say that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174807	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519174824	When SF is a co-sponsor of this proposal together with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, it is partly because I clearly remember the DBO with Ghana, while we also negotiated other DBOs, among others. with Ireland. It wasn't that problematic. The problem with Ghana and the reason I am talking specifically about this agreement is that it crystallized where we were going with our DBOs. The DBO with Ghana was the smallest of the DBOs we have entered into with developing countries. There were a number of areas in relation to taxation where, for one reason or another, Denmark had reduced the tax rights that Ghana could levy. Tax rights were transferred from Ghana to Denmark, and examples of this are that dividends and dividends are taxed at 5%. in the agreement, where it is normally taxed at 8% in Ghana, interest is taxed at 8%, where it is taxed at 10% in Ghana, and royalties and technical assistance fees are taxed at 8%, where it is normally taxed at 15%. It is just a little strange that development and tax programmes are being set up in a country, largely at the same time as they are printing down their tax options and actually moving it home to Denmark. Something else about this case, which was also quite remarkable, was that the definition of permanent establishment was moved from the 90 days in force in Ghana to suddenly 9 months, despite the fact that the other DBOs concluded by Denmark have been around 6 months old. When we constantly talk about the fact that it is a question of not being double-taxed, but that we also say that there should be no double non-taxation, then you will only get the status of a permanent establishment after nine months, thus paying neither tax in Ghana nor in Denmark for nine months. So it is quite low and so especially towards a poor developing country. I don't think it belongs anywhere. That is why we also tabled a great many amendments at the time in relation to this specific DBO, and I think that when we talk about the DBOs in general, it is good to start with this particular case because it showed a new low point. And it is clear that, compared with the DBO that was concluded with Ireland, the parties were much more equal to each other. It was actually good and we didn't have much to say about it. But when you are faced with a weaker party who may think that a little is something too, then there is not the same negotiating option. It must also be said that there are some more Danish companies operating in Ghana than the other way around. Therefore, it gives a suspicion in relation to the poorest countries in particular with which we enter into DBOs, i.e. whether it is really beneficial to them or to the Danish tax system or to some companies that have some favourable conditions. It is quite absurd that it is Denmark that has to put down the Ghanaian tax system, and that is why I am talking about this particular case, because it has shown very clearly what can happen, or a trend, because the DBO with Ghana is the poorest from the viewpoints of developing countries that Denmark has yet concluded. It seems that our proposal cannot create a majority. Despite the fact that it can function almost as tax evasion, legal tax evasion, despite the fact that it is completely contrary to what we have in development policy, despite the fact that a developing country's tax system is being pressed down, it does not seem that there is going to be a majority in favour of this, but I also hope, as others have said, that what has to be heard from the Social Democrats and from the DF is that, after all, we may be able to move a little by the way in which DBOs are being concluded. Then I would just like to call on the government to look at its own development policy, which has, of course, become absurdly much worse since the last government, but it is still existing, and there is still something about political co-existence, and that is just a fancy word for there not to be a total contradiction between what you do with one hand and what you do with the other hand. Having said that, I hope that the Minister will also think that perhaps we can do a little better than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175322	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party and therefore we now move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175342	I would like to thank you for a good debate. That's exactly what we wanted. We had explored the terrain in advance and I was actually hoping that there might be a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution. But we see that there are degrees of understanding for greater transparency, and we also have a great understanding that there is an existing work going on in the government. We just hope that, as it always is, when you come up with such a proposal here, it is to push a little bit to hopefully move in the direction we would like, namely that there will actually be greater transparency. We do not need to agree with those of us who have tabled the proposal that there is a bias in the fact that trade with a developing country is treated in the same way as trade with an equal country. I think it is the rhetoric that is actually being used that in a debate one must be aware that there is a need for a closed negotiating room in order to get the best possible agreement. And there is something that we fundamentally disagree with when it comes to the fact that this is not the case here. Denmark has a duty, when negotiating with a developing country, to ensure that there will be no race against the bottom of the country with which we are negotiating. It may well be that those who say yes to the agreement get much better, get a better chance of running a sensible business in the country, but it is just not the same as that it is going to create a good development in the country. We see very many places in the world that agreements are being made where it is either only for the very rich or a few other groups in the country. That is why we think it is important to have the debate on what it really means when we make double taxation agreements. In my view, double taxation agreements are good, that is also essential to say. But just as they are of good, there are many negative aspects to them too. I believe that we have a responsibility in Denmark to go in and create transparency and openness about what it really means when we go out into the world and make these agreements. In order to round it off at such a slightly more abstract level than the tax area is, it is this which is very difficult to understand when you are not working with it all the time. I am new to politics, so I understand that there are some who do not understand at all that a double taxation agreement actually ends up being a security problem and could end up in wars and inequalities that create migrant crises and refugee crises. But that's actually what this is about. It is about maintaining an inequality in the world in some rich countries, which means that the problems do not become less, but that they are getting bigger. We then see them on all sorts of fronts, other than losing out in competition to drive growth or to make economically sensible agreements between companies. We simply see them as the challenges that may be refugees coming here or that may be migrants looking for countries other than those in which they actually live, because the opportunities are just much better elsewhere. This is actually about something that's going on on the big blade. It is about the fact that we want to create a more equal society also outside Denmark's borders. And there are double taxation agreements that are not indifferent, and neither is the understanding of those in the population, because as long as you think that Denmark is doing nothing good by making a double taxation agreement, there is something you might have misunderstood. Even if we are clearly at the good end and we are in the class where we think so much about helping the developing countries, it is only important to know that such an agreement does not have to be of good value, even though some have said yes to it at the other end. That is where I think we actually reached the debate today. If we do not get a majority in favour of the motion for a resolution, I think that the whole point of a resolution is to reach a resolution which is perhaps even better than this one, because we have a larger mandate behind it. Now we are three parties and four with the Radicals who have said yes. Let's see if we can't find a solution where we get greater transparency with an even larger number of parties behind it, and then we're happy with it. But we'll have to do that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175812	Now we agree on this, but I just want to hear from the rapporteur from the alternative what the rapporteur thinks of Denmark being the country with which Ghana, from a Ghanaian point of view, has made the poorest, the worst DBO. Of all the countries with which Ghana has agreements, the Danish is the least for them, with the exception of the agreement with Barbados; that is something to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175844	I think that it is right to talk about Ghana, and I think that my co-sponsors have done well and have set that example. In fact, it was some of the things that made us want this motion for a resolution in the House in the alternative. In our view, it is precisely a race to the bottom that we, Denmark, should set those who should actually set the direction for how to deal with them in such an agreement. It may be that there are all sorts of good reasons for this and that this is the right agreement, including for Ghana. It is just extremely difficult for us to see, and we have not heard it from any of the organisations we have talked to about it. It seems quite wrong that Denmark can make such an agreement in any way. But again, I don't know the course. I wasn't in the negotiations then either. It may be that there is something I do not know, but immediately I do not see anything sensible in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175929	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519175945	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519180014	Thank you very much. This resolution from the three parties is generally about the basis when Denmark enters into double taxation agreements with developing countries. With the resolution, the three parties wish to establish three basic principles which the government must comply with in the case of DBOs, i.e. double taxation agreements. In the negotiations with developing countries, Denmark will use the UN Model Agreement; impact assessments will be prepared in the context of negotiations on double taxation agreements; and, finally, evaluations of the conclusion of DBOs will be carried out on an ongoing basis. The reason for the motion for a resolution seems to be the idea that developing countries are in a situation where they need a very special protection if they are involved in negotiations with industrialised countries, i.e. in countries such as Denmark. I mean, this whole discussion about countries and countries is now a few years back, and that is not something that we are dividing the world into anymore. The point of view that because you are a developing country, you cannot handle a debate on a proper basis, seems to me to be a little at the basis of the motion for a resolution. I really think that is a pity, because I think that is different. I'll get back to that. The Danish policy on double taxation is based on a series of aims, if you like. Overall, the emphasis is on three factors when deciding whether to open negotiations. There must be important Danish interests in the country with which you are negotiating. There must be a risk of double taxation. In other words, the purpose of making a double taxation agreement is not to avoid taxation, but to avoid double taxation, so that only one country is subject to taxation. And there must be the prospect of agreement. These are three principles. For example, it will. be relevant to enter into negotiations if there is a Danish taxpayer who is subject to double taxation as a result of a lack of agreement and is thereby placed at a disadvantage than competing companies from the other country. Danish companies should not be placed at a disadvantage compared to foreign companies when Danish companies operate abroad. We therefore attach crucial importance to ensuring that Danish companies are not discriminated against, in other words discriminated against, in relation to national companies when it comes to taxing activities abroad. The negotiations also emphasise that Danish industry is not disadvantaged than other countries' companies, which may be covered by more favourable double taxation agreements. A similar principle applies when foreign companies operate in Denmark. They should have no better conditions than the Danish companies. There is also a concern here to take into account the Danish business community, in that they compete with the foreign business community. Similarly, foreign investors should not be better placed than Danish investors. The starting point is therefore that we do not accept a waiver of Danish taxation of activities carried out on Danish territory. There has to be a balance. We do not demand that the other country should give up withholding tax which we ourselves would not give up. Conversely, we demand concessions in line with what most other countries have achieved in that country. Nor will we accept a situation in which we give up a tax, while abroad may give up a corresponding tax on payments to Denmark, but subject to internal safeguards rules which mean that they can nevertheless tax according to national rules which they consider best. On the other hand, we are prepared to accept consistent, predictable safeguards, even if these do not correspond to the recommendations of the OECD. The aims of the Danish negotiating policy in question apply in general, including to developing countries. However, it is important to remember that these are precisely sight lines. Any agreement will always represent a compromise between the starting points of the two countries. This is particularly true when the starting points for the countries are very different, which will typically be the case in negotiations with developing countries. It is therefore true that Denmark is using a model for the conclusion of double taxation agreements resulting from the OECD Model Agreement. In fact, I think that is quite natural, given that Denmark is a member of the OECD. However, the fact that the developing countries are not treated as a special category does not mean that there is no difference between the negotiating partner and the developing country. Denmark does not use the UN Model Agreement as a basis for negotiations with developing countries, but Denmark's agreements with developing countries will all the other things being equal include several elements of the UN Model Agreement. Agreements with developing countries will therefore typically contain a higher level of source taxation, i.e. tax at source, whereby Danish companies with activity in developing countries will become more taxable there, i.e. in developing countries. Source tax rates on dividends and royalty payments are typically higher than those accepted in relation to non-developing countries. The definition of permanent establishments, which are, after all, essential for taxation, is typically broader, which means that there is not much activity to be done before tax is paid in developing countries. So these are some elements that really dis advantage developing countries. In my view, this is a clear undervaluation of the developing countries when it is suggested that they enter into double taxation agreements because they feel pressured to do so. Quite frankly, I do not agree with what is suggested in the motion for a resolution, namely that the results of negotiations with developing countries stem from an unequal relationship between donors and recipients or other power relationships linked to trade interests. Denmark never invokes such relations directly or indirectly in negotiations on DBOs. It is possible that other countries do so, but that is not the Danish negotiating position. The truth is that developing countries have to a large extent qualified staff who are fully capable of defending the interests of their countries. After all, the final result stems from a compromise between the draft agreements presented by each of the parties and is the result of a negotiation between two parties whose interests do not coincide in every respect. That is why a compromise is reached and if we are not satisfied with the compromise, it will not be reached, then we will not have a double taxation agreement. That is, of course, one of the reasons why it is actually a quite balanced negotiation... both sides must agree. Double taxation agreements are about having coordinated tax systems that are different and getting them to play together in the best way possible. If you do not do so, you risk double taxation, i.e. something is taxed twice. No one is interested in that. Double taxation agreements are not about providing development aid. I think that is also important to make clear. We do not conduct development policy through the double taxation agreements. Development policy is pursued elsewhere and with the resources available there. Of course, some consideration is being taken. That's the way it is. I have mentioned this, but it is not where Denmark conducts its primary aid policy. One priority in this context is aid to developing countries so that they can build up their own tax systems. The focus is on helping the developing countries to finance their own development in this way. This is something that I, as Minister of Taxation, want to push for and do even more than we do today. In other words, I would like to contribute to developing countries building up their own tax systems. As can be seen, I do not share the view that developing countries are weak countries in need of special protection. For the most part, they are actually able to protect their own interests in the field of double taxation. And I would like to point this out once again that Denmark does not use any negotiating technique to try to pressure a country to conclude an agreement which is at the disadvantage of that country. We're not gonna do that. I therefore believe that it makes no sense for Denmark to take time during a negotiation process to prepare an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the agreement that is being negotiated for both parties. It would be a sensible proposal to make if there were a number of other countries which I believe have a different negotiating tactics. But it is a little bit to shoot gray sparrows with guns, if I may use such an expression, in the Danish context. With regard to the ex post evaluation of double taxation agreements concluded, it can be considered. It is also an issue that I have discussed with, among others. IBIS, pointing out that the Netherlands has initiated such an evaluation of their existing agreements with developing countries. But I think we should also think a little bit, because the situation in Denmark is not the same as in the Netherlands, and we cannot necessarily be compared in this DBO area. The national Danish tax rules ensure, for example, that Denmark cannot be used as a flowing country for dividends. It's a little different with Holland. We need to be sure that we are using our resources sensibly, and so we should not start any more work until we check whether this is actually needed. However, on this point in the motion for a resolution, I would like to respond to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I am already in dialogue with the IBIS, and I will continue that dialogue, and I believe that the last time I had a meeting with them, I asked them to provide some of these examples from the Netherlands. We are looking at them constructively, but with the aim I have just mentioned. It is also important to remember that if a developing country is not satisfied with the content of an existing DBO with Denmark, it is therefore free to request renegotiation. In the end, there is also the possibility of terminating an agreement if one is no longer satisfied with it. It should be noted that in recent times Denmark has not received requests from developing countries for renegotiation or notification of termination. It also says that in this area too, Denmark is probably the best behavior in the class, if you want to. The motion for a resolution tabled is based somewhat on an premise that developing countries need to be held in hand. The government does not share that view in the area of double taxation. We believe that if we implement the resolution, it will result in a straitjacket which will not be sensible for the developing countries or for Denmark. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181051	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181057	Thank you for your review. It is important to me that we put an end to this derailment of the debate once and for all. As proposers, we do not think that the developing countries are incompetent or should be held in their hands or that they should not hold a debate with Denmark. That's not it at all. I tried to say that in the debate earlier. What we think is that there is an unequal relationship in the debate. Whether we call it a developing country or a country under construction, or what we should call it today, we are in a situation where, on many points and according to many organisations, it will be very interesting for the country to create some infrastructure and a basis for living for the people who live there, to conclude agreements, even on very little attractive conditions. In order for us to be able to reach some sort of agreement on this, my question is this: does the Minister agree with me that there are agreements and trade between companies and countries where, even if there is action and there is agreement on both sides, that is not good for the country in which it is taking place? Are there such agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181208	After all, I cannot account for all the DBOs that Denmark has. Some of them are very old, so I'm sure you can find that. I am expressing the negotiating line that we have now and that we have had under the previous government and that I think it is wise to continue with. I have told the officials in the Ministry of Taxation that I want more double taxation agreements to be concluded, and that is part of my political agenda. This is part of my political agenda because double taxation agreements benefit both countries. If such a double taxation agreement were to be drawn up, in which we said that Danish companies that place themselves in Ghana would be subject to far greater taxation than other companies in other countries, then that would bring nothing other than the fact that no Danish companies were going to invest in Ghana. Or they would do so via their subsidiaries in Germany, the Netherlands or somewhere else. The aim of double taxation agreements is to place growth and development in both countries, whether it is a U-land or a U-land, and I think that should be borne in mind by DBOs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181312	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181314	Once again, I think that the Minister is almost dragging it into such absurdity: that we should tax some Danish companies that come to Ghana. That's not what we're talking about. It does not have to be about double taxation agreements, because I can see that it may be difficult to have an answer on whether or not there have been such bad ones over the years. I simply mean trade. Does the Minister think that no agreements have been concluded with countries that are bad for the country that has said yes just because they have said yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181348	I am not sure that I fully understand the question. But if I have to accept the premise, I would say that it may well be. But it is the case that an agreement has been reached, among other things. In the DBO area, both countries can resign. Denmark has at one time terminated the double taxation agreement with France because we thought that agreement was unfair at that time and wanted to renegotiate it. So we have abandoned it and the developing countries can do the same. So if you've got a bad deal or are unhappy with the agreement, it's possible in this agreement system to cancel the agreement or ask for it to be renegotiated. We will, of course, look at this positively in Denmark if that should happen. But this has not happened in recent times.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181430	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181435	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister used words such as: there must be balance and fairness. But what we are proposing here is that the OECD model agreement should be abandoned, because it is based on an agreement between two balanced countries, two industrialised countries, for example. And there we simply believe that, when it comes to terminating an agreement with France and negotiating a new one, or when it comes to the agreement that was reached at the same time as the agreement with Ghana, namely the DBO with Ireland, it may make very good sense with the OECD model agreement. But it is not based on two countries that are very different, and that is why we are proposing this. It is simply not geared to negotiating tax agreements where there are such unequal conditions. So, in relation to what the Minister said about balance, does the Minister think there is a balance in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181544	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181546	I think it makes sense to take the OECD model as a basis, but we are also derogating from it in a number of areas. We derogate from it to the extent that we are presented with some requests from the country with which we are negotiating. I think it makes sense to have such a common sense view, but of course you also have to have some principles that you stand on. One could risk doing some countries a disservice by granting them some special treatment, because if we said that it was fine that Danish companies should be taxed much harder in Ghana than German companies, then that special treatment would probably not lead to investment from Denmark in Ghana. And if investment were to take place, a subsidiary would be set up in Germany and would invest along that path instead of doing so from Denmark. It is then at the disadvantage of Denmark, and it is also of little benefit to Ghana. That is why I think it is very sensible that both sides should be regarded as balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181648	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181650	The Minister says that we should not give special treatment, but that is what we are doing: negative discrimination. The minister sounds to be a lot inside those DBOs, such as: Ghana has entered into agreements with other countries, and it sounds like they're the kind of people you've been up against. But that must mean that the Minister disagrees with the people of Central America and the other organisations that have said that the agreement reached by Ghana with Denmark is in fact the least that Ghana has concluded, with the exception of an agreement with another developing country, Barbados. Since the Minister is in the various DBOs that have been concluded, does the Minister disagree with the analysis that the agreement with Denmark is in fact the poorest agreement that Ghana has so far concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181731	I simply do not have the courage to answer that question, because I do not know that agreement, nor do I know the statements of the IBIS or the Inter-People's Confederation. But I can promise Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen will ask in writing, I shall reply in writing. Then there must come what I hope is a good answer but I can't promise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181756	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181759	This proposal is to say that, in relation to low- and middle-income countries, the United Nations Model Agreement should be used to ensure that taxation is mainly located in the country where the activity takes place, contrary to the OECD Model Agreement, where taxation is mainly located in the country where the company has its head office. One could also look at this from the discussion we have had on tax havens. We have among other things. Mr Vestager, also in consultation with the Minister for Taxation, discussed the proposal from Mrs Margrethe Vestager that the taxation of a company should take place where the activity takes place, and this is a discussion about tax havens. When you look at this in that light, does it not seem obvious to the tax minister that it makes good sense to start with the UN model agreement because there is a link between the UN model agreement in this area and the way we start thinking about the fight against tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519181904	- Sir, you can. Rune Lund well have a point in. You may have a long discussion about models, but I really think it is easier to relate to some of the principles. And the challenge is that if we choose a significantly harder tax for Danish investment in e.g. Mozambique, than there is for investment from Switzerland or Spain, a Danish investor, because we live in a global world, just do not have his company in Denmark, but want it in one of these other countries. So if you're going to pursue the point of view that Mr. Rune Lund argues in favour, so as a country, at least you shouldn't do it alone. It will not lead to anything except that there will be no direct Danish investment in the developing countries concerned. Then we must do it together, and then it is a discussion which may be relevant to raise under the auspices of the OECD, namely whether the model we have there is right or whether we should be more inspired by the UN model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182005	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182007	At least I see this as some kind of opening-up to the possibility that something might be done here. For me it is obvious in the present situation because there is an unequal relationship of power. It is not the case that the developing countries can find out nothing at all. They can do so to a great extent, but they just don't always have the same economic strength. Nor do they have the same type of administration or administration as many rich countries have. We also see, when there are negotiations in the United Nations, that many developing countries, for example. It is not possible to send the same delegations to a meeting in New York that rich, industrialised countries can. So that makes sense in the specific situation, but I also think that this makes sense in relation to the discussion we have about combating tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182051	I can say so much that I have visited a number of developing countries. When I started in the Folketing, I was a development rapporteur, and I have actually visited Ghana, which we have discussed here. And what surprised me a little down there was that there was no unequal relationship between the delegation that came down there from the Folketing and the delegation from which we were received. And what was the clear message to us from the parliamentarians we met with back then many years ago was: We would rather have Danish trade and Danish investment than we would like Danish aid, because trade creates growth and jobs and tax bases. That's why we're gonna have to enter into these double taxation agreements. Then you can discuss some of the principles, as Mr. Rune Lund and some of the proposers do, but I think it is important to bear in mind that we should therefore have concluded these double taxation agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182138	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182147	Denmark's tax policy should not be at the expense of our development policy, the proposers write. We in the Social Democratic Party fully agree with that. Nor do we believe that this is the case with the double taxation agreements concluded by Denmark. We do not see a contradiction between concluding double taxation agreements and developing countries' ability to increase their tax revenues. In fact, it is also the case that the agreements often contain both rules on how to tax across countries, but also on exchanging information so that it becomes harder to cheat on taxes and there are demands for recovery so that it becomes harder to run from the bill. For us, it is absolutely crucial that low and middle-income countries strengthen their tax base and thus create room for manoeuvre to finance essential reforms and development and progress in their country. However, we do not see a contradiction between concluding agreements and their ability to increase their tax revenues, and it seems a little as if the proposers want to pursue development policy through double taxation agreements, and we do not think that is the right place. In that case, when you make those negotiations, you have to treat your counterpart properly, and when it comes to developing countries, there are, of course, some considerations in this context, but nevertheless it is also our own interests that you have a debate on, and it is not just being put forward so that other countries get it exactly as they want it to be a real negotiation. We have fought, and will continue to fight, for the way in which Denmark provides assistance to help build up tax authorities and close tax gaps, stop illegal capital transfers and otherwise press for developing countries to strengthen their tax base. It is written that there are different model agreements to work from, and it is not so unnatural that Denmark works from the OECD agreement, as Denmark is a member of the OECD, and it takes into account conditions that are in a country like Denmark. Other countries are applying the United Nations Model Agreement and, as the tax minister mentioned earlier, there will also be elements from it when you have finished making your compromise and making your agreement, and that is what we really think it should continue to be. But even if it were done in a different way, it would still be a debate in which Denmark will try to get it drawn in a direction where it is beneficial for Danish companies and interesting for Danish companies to subsequently operate in that country. Another element of the proposal is to make a special analysis of how a debate has come to an end. We do not really think it makes sense, immediately after such a debate, in which both parties have had to give and take, has ended, to appoint winners and losers in various elements of an agreement. Nor is it certain that it is conducive to achieving an agreement at all which would also be in the interest of a developing country precisely to increase trade with Denmark. In relation to the discussion on the agreement with Ghana, I would like to say that, if there are still criticisms and outstanding issues and discussions about it, it is possible to review that agreement, call the tax minister in consultation and ask new critical questions and discuss with Ghana's embassy why they do not ask for a new debate if there is reason for them to be dissatisfied with the agreement they have reached. But that is not what we are talking about here; we are discussing some other proposals here, and we cannot therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182531	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182535	There are several of the measures which I think are interesting and which we have also considered. The reason why we have taken it up today is precisely to get it into play, that there are other ways of making double taxation agreements than the one we have today, in other words through the OECD. I fully understand that the Social Democrats do not want to move to the UN model. But I am listening at the same time, and I would just like to confirm that the Social Democrats are actually prepared to look at how this is going on and to learn more about it, but that it should not just be immediately after the agreement has been concluded. You want some empire to assume. But that's what I find out there isn't today. I find it difficult to understand how these agreements are really related, and that is, both before, during and immediately after they have been concluded. There you have the situation in the Folketing that you are going to make a decision without perhaps having been in the process. So is it interesting for the Socialists to find a system so that we somehow constantly and every time we make a double taxation agreement, we evaluate it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182640	No, I do not think so, nor do I believe that we can derive from what I said in my speech a moment ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182650	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182651	Nor was I intended to say that the rapporteur had said something that the rapporteur has not said. I think it sounded as if you were interested, but that assessment of the agreement should just not fall so quickly. But I understand that it is unnecessary to have this assessment, in that it happens on other joints. After all, we propose that each agreement should have an overall assessment and evaluation of whether we are actually doing something good or something bad. But that is not necessary from the point of view of the rapporteur, I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182727	No, I don't think so. I think it would be appropriate for the government, if the government, on behalf of Denmark, had negotiated a shitty agreement home with a country with which we have trade, to receive criticism for it. If Denmark began to behave in a deeply unreasonable manner towards the developing countries in the negotiations with them, it would give rise to a political discussion there. But we do not support such a general rule of evaluating and analysing these negotiations. What I said earlier in my reply was a kind of call for it to be a road to go if you are particularly interested in the agreement with Ghana, but that is just not what has been proposed. And we cannot support the proposal that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182811	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519182819	After all, Denmark is currently entering into double taxation agreements with other countries, and we are doing so on the basis of the standard in the OECD, and that is the framework for virtually all the agreements we are making in this area. We in the Danish People's Party think this is quite good, because it creates some comparability and some predictability, which benefits both Danish citizens and companies, because the rules then become more similar, as it is the same standard that has been made from. These agreements ensure that there is no double taxation, but that there is no double non-taxation. That is what provides the framework for finding out who now has the tax liability, and it is quite reasonable that we should conclude these agreements. I also think that a call from this from the two motions for resolutions that we have had today should be to focus more on the fact that we have more double taxation agreements than perhaps so much on whether it is one or the other standard that we are using. I really feel comfortable there about the way you do it today. What is then proposed in this motion for a resolution is to move away from the OECD standard to the UN model agreement, but only in the case of low- and middle-income countries. In short, as I conclude from the proposal, the difference is that the proposers want Denmark to put itself at a disadvantage in the negotiations when it comes to agreements with low-income countries. Then there is one thing I wonder a little bit about in the text, because there is such a little between the lines that Denmark is almost trying to cheat the countries. I do not think that is necessarily what the intention is, I can hear from the answers to the questions, but I do not have the impression from the double taxation agreements that I have been involved in dealing with here in Parliament and it is now quite a lot that Denmark is trying to cheat other countries. In other words, it is a negotiation and a compromise between two countries, and that agreement is only reached if both parties can see themselves in it. And as a country, we have no interest in trying to trick anyone. It is no different from what it is in here in the Folketing, where you sit in negotiations with other parties there, you have no interest in trying to put a party completely under the floorboards, because the only thing that happens is that very soon afterwards the other party will terminate the agreement. And then you haven't really moved anything. So, of course, you try to find something in the Danish Parliament as well as in the conclusion of double taxation agreements where both parties can see themselves in it and come out with more pluses than minuses in the scales. That is what I think has emerged from this debate, because if you look at what has happened to renegotiations of double taxation agreements or cases where they have been terminated, it is actually incredibly rare. The only agreement I can think of is, in fact, the one between Denmark and France, funny enough, which is actually a country we are quite close to economically, and it was abandoned because we could not agree. However, I have not seen any low-income countries or intermediate-income countries where one party has felt so badly treated or so shrouded that they have had to terminate the agreement. So I do not see the great need for Denmark to move away from the standard that we are applying now, because I think it gives a good predictability and comparability for companies and citizens that we know that it is the same principles that are made on each occasion. So in those words I can say that we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183132	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183136	Thank you. After all, we are proposing to move to the United Nations Model Agreement. It says, of course, that instead of tax being placed in the country of origin of the company, taxation must take place where the activity is. It is, of course, a principle that we pay tribute to when we have these many exciting discussions about tax havens and tax evasion, and a little in relation to that, as Mr. Rune Lund referred to our competition commissioner saying that it is actually a very healthy principle to pay taxes where the money is earned. What is the rapporteur's overall view of this principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183227	That is basically a good principle. That is also part of the agreement we are using today. If Denmark pays a pension to a Dane living in Germany, it will be taxed at source in Denmark because it is Denmark that pays the money. So it is actually part of the principles that are already being applied. If a company has earnings in Denmark, they pay corporation tax in Denmark, they pay VAT in Denmark, but if the head office is located in Germany, it is clear that there may be some dividend tax and other things that then go to Germany and that Denmark then misses. But the profits themselves, or the taxation of the activities of the countries themselves, are, in fact, already source-taxed. So I actually don't see the big difference in it, but for me it just weighs heavily that you have a predictability and that there's a comparability in the agreements you make, that they're pretty much the same. That is why I think it would be wrong to go in the wrong direction if, when it is the country, you say that it is only for low-income or middle-income countries and then you have to have a different agreement there. I think it is a good thing that we are using the same standard all around, because it gives some predictability to those companies and citizens who need these agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183325	There is no wish for any other brief comment, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the Left's, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183341	Since the rapporteur of the Left is unable to be present, I have just promised to put forward the position of the Left on the matter. The alternative, Enhedslisten and SF propose that in future Denmark use the UN Agreement Model to conclude double taxation agreements with other countries. Today, Denmark uses the OECD collective agreement model. The preamble to the resolution is that low and middle-income countries are exposed and disadvantaged by the OECD model when they make double taxation agreements with the so-called industrialised countries such as Denmark. Like the Minister for Taxation, I think it is quite unreasonable to assume that low-income and middle-income dealers should be less competent negotiators than the Danish ones, and the Left cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183433	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. I was just a little surprised it wasn't sir. Rune Lund, standing by in front of the platform, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183453	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is pleased to be co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution, which is, after all, closely linked to the motion for a resolution, B 145, which we have just discussed. Our ambition is that double taxation agreements and agreements should be made on a fair and fair basis. There is, unfortunately, asymmetry in power and resources between developed and developing countries, and it will also play a role in drawing up agreements on double taxation. We saw it in concrete terms with the case of the agreement between Denmark and Ghana, which I also mentioned, among other things. in my rapporteur's speech on B 145. But it is also a more general problem. A developing country is often very interested in attracting foreign investment, which is why there is, as a preliminary point, an unequal relationship of strength between the two parties to the negotiations. In several cases, the developing country enters into agreements which may attract investment to the country, but which are to the disadvantage of the developing country, or at least not as optimal as it might be, while the country makes an agreement that is more favourable to the country itself. As is now the case, Denmark, like most other countries, applies the OECD Model Convention to double taxation agreements, and the OECD Model could be a good example when it comes to negotiations between two equal countries. Here the tax payment is placed, where the company has its head office, and when we are dealing with negotiations between countries, this can be a viable approach. It is different, of course, when using this set of rules in negotiations between developing countries and countries. Here it is obvious that it is in the country that the head office is for a multinational company, and this will happen almost every time, and thus it is the country that receives the tax payment. Therefore, the OECD model is not fair in these cases. After all, the United Nations also has a model of double taxation agreements that is differently fair. This is based on the fact that taxation is to take place in the country where the activity takes place, and this will typically be the developing country. If we really want to ensure that the developing countries can stand on their own feet, then it is of no use that we have a practice that effectively removes tax revenue from the developing countries, and that is why we are co-sponsors of this resolution. As has also been mentioned in the debate here, the discussion about taxing the profits where the activity takes place is also part of the discussions we have on tax havens, where we have had many and intense discussions, and where the government goes out and reports its support to the competition Commissioner, Mrs Margrethe Vestagers, the proposal to tax the profits precisely where the activity is. And if we then believe that there should be only one model agreement, one should be based on, and that we should not have one agreement that applies to low- and middle-income countries, and another for high-income countries, then we could take the step in full and, in fact, just move on in principle to the UN model agreement. If that is what is to be understood in the light of the comments, which include: was from the Danish People's Party, I am sure the proposers are willing to look at an amendment, but now we have to see if it gets that far. That is probably not what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thought. In any case, of course, we are very pleased with this proposal, and that is why we are co-sponsors of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183837	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Rune Lund. Then we can welcome Mrs Merete Riisager, who is the next rapporteur and who has been very virtuously standing ready and waiting down front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519183849	In the Liberal Alliance, we would very much like to help developing countries by improving trade with them. The EU's customs walls are deeply damaging to the opportunities for developing countries to move themselves forward, and Denmark should, in this context, take the lead in providing better opportunities for developing countries to sell their products and services on the European market. Europe has been trying for decades to make progress through foreign aid, but serious research shows that very little has come out of these efforts. In fact, there is much evidence to suggest that foreign aid can be counterproductive by out-turning local initiatives and dampening the motivation of the governments of countries to take responsibility for their peoples. Indeed, it is important that there is a direct relationship and agreement between the government of a country and the population of that country through its tax system and the benefits that come to the other end, for example. infrastructure, schools, etc. This mutual agreement lapses when foreign powers take over a large part of the government's responsibility, for example. through excessive foreign aid. In other words, it has historically been a really bad idea to turn developing countries into poor countries, so we should not do that, even in this area, and therefore the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519184029	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Johannes Lebech of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519184044	Excuse me, sir. President, it happened so fast. Thank you. On the part of the Radical Left, we have a great deal of sympathy for the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, in which they propose that Denmark should apply the United Nations model of tax agreements rather than the OECD's to low- and middle-income countries in order to make the parties more equal. We are in favour of the proposal as such to support the poorest, but we have a specific amendment. We can see that it only covers the so-called LDC countries, the less developed countries, which are among some of the middle-income countries, which we really do not think there is any reason to give the positive preferential treatment that I sense is in the proposal, for example. countries like China and Mexico. So the specific amendment we would like to bring into the negotiations, but otherwise we are generally positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519184152	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519184207	I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of the Radicals for his last comment. Maybe we can take a look at that. I have to discuss this with the other parties who have been involved in making this proposal. However, I think there was a bit of a misunderstanding in what the rapporteur said, namely that if you use the UN model agreement, the low-income countries will receive positive treatment, they will receive positive discrimination and that rich countries such as Denmark will have a worse conditions. I simply do not read that in the UN model agreement. It is based on the fact that because there are some unequal relationships, you try to get it into the model, so that you somehow get the countries a little more equal when you include all these things. However, I welcome the positive comments made by the Radicals. I think that there have been several rapporteurs up here from parties who are opposed to this proposal and who make it sound like Denmark needs to get money out of its pocket to make these agreements if you switched to a UN model over come. It's not like that. It is to try to set a slightly more reasonable framework for what it is that you stand at when you negotiate. When we criticise the use of the OECD model agreement for these DBOs with low-income countries, it is not a criticism of the OECD; in other words, they have simply modelled on the assumption that they were relatively equal countries negotiating on relatively similar terms. So you have made a model of this, and it would be fine if you made a new DBO with France or the DBO that was made with Ireland a few years ago. It's just really bad when you have to make DBOs with countries like... Ghana. That is why we have tabled this proposal. And in the report, which is also mentioned in the comments on the proposal, with the very fancy title "Fifty Shades of Tax Dodging', it is described that there are in fact only a few countries among the rich countries that have thought this into at all. I do not think it is a question of Denmark having money out of its pocket, or of making unfavorable agreements. It is about the fact that perhaps as a rich industrialised country we should behave better than to exploit those who have a worse negotiating point. Because I actually think we do. Many people have asked why these countries are making these agreements. Well, in their optics, maybe it's a little bit better than not having anyone. But I do not think it suits a country such as Denmark, which would like to be at the forefront in a number of other areas, and which has written in politics as a central value in development policy, to go in and create quite favourable conditions for the Danish companies operating in a given country, while at the same time having very few of the companies in that country in Denmark. As I mentioned when we discussed the previous proposal, there is the difference between the levels of taxation on dividends and interest rates and so on, but there is also this here about the definition of permanent establishment. My colleagues from both the Alternative and the Enhedslist have already mentioned this. When we rage against tax havens and tax evasion, but in a completely legal way institutionalise some rules in which we say that, of course, we should not pay taxes in one place or another for up to nine months, that makes no sense. So I think it would be appropriate to ask the tax minister some written questions about that. What is an estimated loss of revenue, for example? For Denmark and Ghana, if we are to take a concrete example? Why can't we change the rules so that we can live up to the principle that we always pay so much, that we have to pay taxes in one place or another? There should not be double taxation, but there should not be double non-taxation. These are, of course, some of the things that we would encounter by also having a much better model agreement which did not weaken some of the already not too good tax systems that are in some of the poorest countries. I would just like to reiterate my point from the past: it is strange that we are sending really talented tax workers to some of the poorest countries in the world to build up some of what is most central. And as a wise man once said: Taxes are the price of civilization, for then we can build good societies. And it is the backbone of a civilised society that you can levy taxes properly. We go out and support that with one hand, because we send Danish people, and with the other hand we push the levels down. I don't think it's fair. But now we shouldn't be so mad either. If, however, there is no majority in favour of this proposal, I also hope that that discussion can somehow continue over with the Minister until the day when we have a majority to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519184756	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. I do not see any rapporteur for the Conservatives, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers. It's sir. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519184811	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. I actually felt that way when we chose to put these two motions for resolutions to the effect that I was wondering whether we should also, at the request of several people, combine them into one. The pressure has been exerted in this Chamber these days, so perhaps we could have done so. But I thought it was essential to keep them separate, and there are two reasons for this: the previous proposal we were talking about was about increasing transparency when we were dealing with double taxation agreements. That's one thing. The second is what we are discussing now, and it has to do with whether we should choose the model agreement that is best for the developing countries with which we work. It is of course our view in the alternative and among the authors of the proposal that it should be chosen rather than the OECD's not that the OECD's part-out is bad, but it is designed to trade between equal trading partners. The follow-up question must then be: if we choose the UN model agreement, will it be worse for Denmark, as the SF rapporteur also mentioned before? No, it doesn't. In the alternative, we have the motto and vision that Denmark should be the best country for the world. There are often some who look up at the ceiling when we say it, and think: Wow, it's gonna be fun; what happens to our welfare society when you have that vision? Because there is a perception that if something is to be good for the world, it must automatically get worse for us. And that is what is fundamental about talking about which agreement is chosen here, because cynically, completely cynically, it will be better for Denmark in the long term if we do everything we can to develop the countries with which we are cooperating, which are developing countries and which are otherwise to receive contributions in other ways, through foreign aid, or perhaps develop problems of a completely different nature. I also mentioned this in the last proposal: these may be security challenges, which will be major policy in a completely different way from this. Therefore, we would like to motivate Denmark to enter like many companies do and think: What happens if we now occupy the position where we are not just a dork for being a dork, but simply a dork and those who do the best, not just for ourselves, but also for those with whom we work, because we know that there will then be better trade, and we avoid the problems that sometimes arise if you go out of a meeting room and have made an agreement where it is actually only the one that is really happy? I agree that a double taxation agreement can be terminated. I also agree that this has happened very rarely in relation to the trade agreements we have made with the developing countries, but in my view there is also a reason for this. Few people are weak in a negotiating position which, five years later, is still weak and wants to reverse the basis of negotiations or the decision that was handed down, because as long as it is developing countries we are talking about, it is countries which are in a different position from ours and, therefore, they may still not be interested in terminating those agreements, even if they have the possibility of doing so. I would like to thank you for a very good debate and wish that, when we have these debates, we will try even more to say that it is no wonder that we should also be laying down double taxation agreements and all sorts of other parts of the tax system and trade agreements in the way we operate development aid. When we think of development aid, security policy and foreign policy in the alternative, we think of it globally, and if trade can influence the development of countries in a sensible way, we think that we should do so. I am not saying that double taxation agreements are the best place to do so, but one of many parameters in which it is so interesting. I also listened to the Radicals and saw their outstretched hand. I think we should take a look at that. It may well be that we come closer to a majority here in the Folketing if we look only at low-income countries, so we take that with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519185229	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. René Gade. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519185253	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519185312	Thank you very much for that, President. After all, we are here today to discuss a motion for a resolution this time from a party other than the parties behind the resolutions we have previously discussed, namely in this case the Danish People's Party to increase the base allowance for holiday rental made through a rental agency. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wishes to require the government to increase the basic allowance for the rental of holiday homes from DKK 21,000, as it is today, to DKK 30,000. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The reason for the proposal is that in 2016 there will be a shortage of summer houses. In the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party writes that an increase in the base allowance will lead to more summer houses entering the market. According to the Holiday Rentals Association, this will create an increased turnover in Denmark's outlying areas due to increased consumption from an increased number of guests. So far, so good. In 2001, the then VK government submitted a bill to introduce a mandatory reporting scheme for vacation rental combined with an increased bottom allowance when a cottage was rented through an agency. The proposal was adopted and I would like to take this opportunity, even though it is a few years ago, to sign for it, with a broad majority in the Folketing. With the bill, the floor limit for rental was increased from DKK 10,000. $20,000. for owners of holiday homes who fulfil the mandatory reporting obligation by renting through an agency. The amount limit is adjusted annually and therefore amounts to DKK 21,000 in 2016. The purpose of the bill was to strengthen the incentive to rent holiday homes to tourists, thus creating increased turnover and employment in the local community. The draft law was considered to be revenue-neutral, as the additional proceeds from compulsory reporting outweighed the lower revenue received by the increased base deduction. To put it a little more educational: when you make a deduction, something happens, and there are two opposite things happening in this area. There is an additional revenue coming in as a result of something that was previously rented out and was not reported to the tax administration, now being reported through this reporting obligation. It's gonna give us some money. On the other hand, it costs something to increase the base deduction from DKK 10,000. $20,000, and then it goes in the opposite direction. Back in 2010, it was estimated that the two opposite movements ended in a large, round zero. Of course, it is always an assessment and an estimate that you make. Then reality can turn out to be different. The change has led to an increase in the number of holiday homes rented through an agency, and more holiday homes are now rented together than before. This has led to an increase in turnover in the communities where the summer houses are located. However, a further increase in the base allowance for holiday homes rented through an agency would, unfortunately, immediately result in less revenue, and this is due to the fact that the compulsory reporting has already been introduced, i.e. the black rental has been moved into the white, if that is the case. An isolated increase in the deduction is therefore not considered to lead to an improvement in the scope for control, and this requires ■ even though we in the government feel that the proposal is sympathetic to the fact that there is some funding. It is the government's position and view and aim that all tax reliefs must of course be financed and therefore, in the view of the government, there is no basis at this stage for granting additional tax relief, which is being proposed here, to the group of owners of leisure homes that rent through an agency. We sympathise with the proposal and recognise the reasoning behind it. It was the one that was also behind enlargement in 2010, but unlike in 2010, it therefore requires us to find some money that is not indicated in the motion for a resolution. The industry considers that the demand for holiday homes for rent is greater than the offer of holiday homes, and that is also part of the argument in the proposal. This is basically good news, at least for the landlords, and this suggests that overall things are going well in the industry, and this in itself will be an incentive to rent holiday homes for tourists. Well, you'd think that would mean that prices would rise, which means that it would be more attractive, even if you had to pay taxes, to make this rental. The government is concerned with growth in Denmark, especially in the outermost regions of Denmark, and therefore the government has also reached an agreement on growth and development throughout Denmark, where a number of the proposals will also have a positive effect on tourism and employment in the outermost regions of Denmark. The agreement includes, inter alia: a reduction in the ferry charge for passenger transport to and from a number of smaller islands. It will improve the accessibility of the country's smaller islands and thus support tourism on the islands, including also the holiday rental, qua it will be cheaper for the renter to go where the holiday home is located. There should be no doubt that the tourism industry is important for Denmark. The government will therefore work to ensure good framework conditions for the sector under one. An important step along the way is the agreement on growth and development throughout Denmark, which we have recently concluded, among other things. with the Danish People's Party. But, as I said, this proposal, although we find it sympathetic, is not funded, and that is why we in the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. But it is such a proposal that it would be natural for the party that has tabled the proposal to raise in a future budget debate, and if you can then either provide funding or can point to funding elements, I think I can say that this is a proposal that the government will welcome, because we think it makes very good sense. But we cannot support it on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519185927	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Two have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519185933	Thank you. I will be very, very pleasantly surprised if the Minister of Taxation can answer this on a stand-by basis, but otherwise I will of course send it as a written question. But now I'm trying. Does the Minister have any idea if the market is saturated? It must be understood that when the deduction was increased, there were perhaps some summer houses to take off, as it were, but if there is close to 100 per cent. As a result of the high level of demand, this figure may not necessarily increase further by an increased deduction. It's an open question. The second is the shared economy, which we discussed earlier. Does the Minister of Taxation or the Ministry have any idea whether the increase that is every year special for a country like Denmark in that people also make use of Airbnb or other services in connection with accommodation will mean something to demand?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190041	The last thing I think is that you can answer yes to. Well, Airbnb's rental model is different from traditional rental because you allow the user to say no to renting out. You don't normally have the option if you rent out through a traditional agency. So it may be that some who would not normally rent their holiday home through an agency would choose to rent it out through Airbnb. But Airbnb doesn't report to the IRS, so there's the low limit of this 10,500 kr. So if you get this report done, forced or voluntary, I think the easiest thing is to do it voluntarily, then there'll be a bigger bottom payment, and then I think there'll be more people who want to rent out their summer house. In relation to the first question, I would like to say that there are certain preconditions laid down in the proposal, and it is always a question of whether the market is saturated or not. I simply cannot answer that on a stand-by basis, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said, but we will reply in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190134	The next question is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190142	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I just want to say that I don't understand how the Minister can say so sloppyly that this is definitely not going to give an extra revenue when the industry • those who do nothing but work with cottage rental every day, from morning to evening • say that they could easily have 3,000 extra houses that they could rent out. After all, they are the ones who experience every day how they get ringed down by the phones and have to say no to everything. From this they can estimate that they could easily have many more summer houses. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: why is it that the Minister thinks he knows more than those who work with it every day?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190228	I don't think so either, but you make a calculation of what something costs, and you calculate it here in the same way as you calculated it in 2010. When you move something from being black to being white, it gives more revenue, and the proceeds were then used to raise the border and introduce this mechanism. You couldn't just keep going down the same road. It is the same as that there are dynamic effects in lightening the top tax, and the dynamic effects were greater in some of the previous tax reforms than they might be in the future, because we have quietly raised the limit so that fewer and fewer people are covered by the top tax. So we're going to do the same thing as we've done the whole time. That, then, is what leads to the fact that there is immediately less revenue with the proposal of 45 million. kr. annual. It is true that several summer houses are then rented out, which is also the basis of the motion for a resolution, and we recognise that. It then gives some more revenue. That's 10 million. kr. But then we end up with a net cost of 35 million. kr., which must be found somewhere. Well, maybe that calculation isn't accurate and correct. It can be challenged, and we are happy to engage in dialogue in the Treasury with stakeholders, including the holiday rental association. But I don't think you can imagine that bill just disappearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190340	Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190342	The Minister refers to the calculations in 2010. They didn't turn out to be true. It turned out that the calculations were that it would be cost-neutral, but it ended up not being. It ended up yielding revenue, which is why the calculations made by the Minister may be just as wrong as those made in 2010. Can the Minister really rule out the fact that we are getting more of those who today rent black out? After all, we have to think about 21,000 kroner. In the bottom of the allowance is not very much when you have a rental summer house and have to buy new furniture close to every two years because there is more wear on them. With all the expenses at a rent-a-summer house, a bottom allowance of DKK 21,000 is paid. Hardly anything you can spin gold on. Doesn't the Minister think there could be even more that we could get into the light if we raised it to 30,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190438	Yes, I think so, and so do we. But I think it was quite unconventional that it was self-financing and revenue neutral at that time. And it may well be that it turns out when you go for the figures, and we would like to do so during the committee procedure that the figure is less than the 35 million. kr. However, I do not believe that it has a self-financing rate of 100 per cent. I wish, but I don't think so. But, of course, we would like to have a dialogue between the Treasury's economists and the trade associations who believe that this does not cost money but gives money in the Treasury. Then we have to figure out what the right number is. I just think it's gonna turn out that it's gonna cost something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190519	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list, and here it is, Mr President. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy, first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190536	The SR government at the time took many initiatives to strengthen tourism during the reign. One of the great magnets for tourists in Denmark and not least of course tourists from Germany are our coasts and the nature that is there. And this is vacation rental very central. The proposal here from the Danish People's Party was launched in the media on big prayer day today, a day when many Danes also enjoy themselves in their summer houses. It was launched as a proposal that had a benefit for tourism and for outlying areas and for holiday homes owners, and then it was even completely free if it had the same effect as last time. At the time, we welcomed the proposal because we are particularly interested in strengthening tourism and we are interested in strengthening rural activities. However, we have also made it clear that it was a precondition for our support that evidence could actually be provided that the proposal would be revenue-neutral. In this context, it is obvious to point out that the amount of rental that was made white and thus gave a tax revenue with the 2010 law change will not be made white again. We have subsequently asked the tax minister to count on DF's proposal and that has not been answered yet. On the other hand, there are some previous answers that you can lean on. If you read an earlier reply from the tax minister, it turns out, and now I quote: it is not possible to determine separately the effect by increasing the base deduction from DKK 10,000 to DKK 20,000. So it's an answer back from November 2015. It then appears that there will be less revenue of 55 million. kr. by that proposal and then 45 million. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This therefore amounts to a permanent cost of 35 million. kr. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support this resolution as it stands. No funding has been allocated to the motion for a resolution, and we therefore regard it as an unfunded tax relief. During the same week as the proposal was launched, DF announced that there was no provision for tax relief during this parliamentary term. We have noticed, of course, that a good deal of them has been adopted, including for the Danes who already have a great deal of money, and now we are proposing another tax relief without financing, which will cost this 35-55 million. kr. So we're not in on that. But right must be right. It's not like it's there at the moment. on the part of the Treasury is such a very solid basis on which to assess the scheme, and that is why we are a little in the dark in the matter. So we agree with the objective behind this proposal. We will propose that a report be produced in the Committee on Taxation which requires the government to provide a sufficient basis for decision-making for any increase in the deduction, including a real evaluation and assessment of the effect of the previous increase in the base allowance for income at holiday rental via the agency. If, therefore, an increase of a small amount can reasonably be assumed to be revenue-neutral, we in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of this desire to strengthen tourism and employment in this context, but we do not want to take money from the elderly and kindergarten, etc. to ease the tax for holiday home owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190842	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190847	We couldn't agree more... we don't want to take money from the elderly and welfare, so that's what Mr. Kaare Dybvad doesn't worry about. The proposal here is not about increasing the base deduction. It is about calling on the government to call for negotiations on this by raising the base allowance, where we can, of course, join forces in the negotiations. As I hear the Socialists, it is important to ensure that it is revenue-neutral, and for the Danish People's Party it is actually just as important that this should not be an expense in the long term. We fully understand that, of course, there is an expense at the beginning, and it must at least earn itself home, but also preferably provide revenue in the treasury. So what I want to hear from the Socialists is whether the Socialists could vote in favour of the proposal that we call for negotiations, where we then take it both with funding and with ensuring that it is revenue-neutral, and that we then possibly evaluate after a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190956	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519190958	Thank you very much to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. I am also absolutely convinced of the questioner's love for rural areas and for tourism, etc., which maintains a large proportion of employment in many parts of the country, so we are really there entirely in line. However, our position is that we must have a basis through the Committee on Taxation first in order to be able to see what the possibilities are before we start the negotiations, because it is simply so uncertain what revenue it is possible to obtain from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191033	There is no wish for any other question, so we thank Mr. Kaare Dybvad. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, since the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191052	Thank you. Since the rapporteur of the Left was unable to be here, I have promised to put forward the position of the Left on the matter. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wishes to require the government to increase the basic allowance for the rental of leisure accommodation from DKK 21,000. for 30,000 kroner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That is quite a sympathetic proposal. As we all know, the Left has also fought for the increase in the base allowance introduced by the Danish Parliament in 2010, combined with a compulsory system for reporting on the rental of summer houses. This has led to an increase in the rental of holiday homes through an agency, which is good for tourism. The Left understands the background to the proposal and we ourselves are very concerned about tourism and the growth of the outermost regions, but since compulsory reporting has already been introduced, it is estimated that an increase in the deduction alone will not lead to better control opportunities. A further increase in the base allowance for cottages leased through an agency will result in a smaller revenue of approx. 30 million kr., as has already been said here in the debate. This means that the proposal requires funding and, in the Left, the position is that tax relief must be financed. We are positive about the desire and attitude here, and we are also looking forward to the Danish People's Party, we must assume, taking it into account in autumn's forthcoming negotiations on, for example, the Finance Act. Against this background, I should like to say on behalf of the Left that at this stage we cannot support the proposal, but it is sympathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191237	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191256	After all, the proposal from the Danish People's Party is very sympathetic to the fact that it aims to provide more housing for rent, create more tourist nights and more tourism jobs. This is something that we in the Enhedslist also think is good and something that we also work for. Then a model has been proposed or, at least, called for negotiations on a model to increase the basic allowance for the rental of holiday homes from 21 000 to 30.000. In the Enhedslisten, we are sceptical about the proposal here. There's something basic in it first. In principle, we do not believe that non-reporting of rental income should be resolved by increasing a deduction, for example. It is stated both in the proposal and in a letter from Sommerhus Denmark that increasing the deduction increases revenue because more people choose to report instead of renting out variety. As a starting point, we think it is wrong to give in and increase the deductions. It can become such a screw without end and thus in principle problematic. With the same argument, we can also call for different tax reductions, for example. employees and companies in order to avoid undeclared work or tax evasion, and this is at least a bad strategy from the outset. If we had to choose to do something, we would, for example, do something. rather look at how to do some more control, some more resources for the SKAT to carry out the necessary checks. Then we also think it is very important to have the discussion, which we have also had in connection with the treatment of B 82, about housing rental, where you look at the automatic reporting obligation, and where you look at the rules on permanent establishment, that is, what it takes to have a housing rental portal or a company taxed in Denmark and therefore you can require the automatic reporting. This is certainly a road that we would rather go in relation to making a tax relief for summer house owners, especially if the tax relief is unfinanced. We would like to sign off on the revenue calculations contained in the comments on the proposal. The figures then come from the Holiday Rentals Association, which is not a central party, but it is certainly a suggestion of how a calculation could be linked and how the economy could possibly be linked in this. However, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, it may be questioned whether the calculation of revenue will actually be in the way described in the comments. There is much to suggest that this is rather an additional expenditure, which then has to be financed from elsewhere, and it should not be from welfare or elsewhere. But we certainly don't mind looking at and diving into what these revenue calculations can have of effects. And if it turns out that there should be some very violent revenue effects in this context, then we have to look at which models might be able to be screwed together. So we agree with the objective of this, but we are sceptical as to whether it is the right solution. We would rather see other ways of doing this, although we recognise that there are some good intentions behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191637	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191643	I would like to thank Enhedslisten for recognising the intention of this and also thank Enhedslisten for having helped to raise the bottom allowance before. What I would like to say to the Enhedslisten is that I am a little sad if I have given the impression that raising the base allowance alone will make those who today rent black come to light. Because it's not just that. The fact that the base allowance is raised may be what, compared to the people who today have a summer house that they may not use so often, is what can just get them across the border to say: then we try to make our summer house a summer home. And among the people who today rent through rental agencies, there are, in fact, also some who rent until the bottom allowance is affected, and it can of course also provide more revenue when you raise the base allowance. So it's just to give a picture that it's not just to get people out who otherwise rent black. It is also to get more vacation rental going, by getting the people who don't already use their cottage so much on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191756	Yes, and I actually understood that from the resolution here and the way it has been presented. What then is the question, and what we may be able to look at in relation to asking some questions and looking into it, is what the market situation is really like, i.e. whether there will really be the extra number of rentals in raising the base deduction further. There is not one, what to say, automatic in that because you have raised it earlier, if you raise the corresponding now, you will get an additional number of cottage rentals. This is certainly one of the things that is relevant to discuss in connection with this proposal. However, as I said, we would like to look at documentation, some figures or calculations or forecasts for it, and then we have to take the discussion from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191849	Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191851	Well, it is not because there is a lack of evidence of the experience so far in relation to raising it from DKK 7,500. 10,000 kroner. to DKr 20,000, which has later been regulated to DKr 21,000. We have, of course, seen experience of this, which shows that each time approx. One thousand extra summer houses on the market; each time it has generated revenue in the Treasury. So we have the experience, plus that it's like this right now, if we're going to believe the Holiday rentals Association of Industry and of course we're going to have to say: Help, we don't have any more summer houses. And when they miss an income, we also miss a high income in the treasury. So, of course, we cannot know a market situation until we try it, but I think we actually have some solid experience that we can lean on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191938	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519191939	There is just that in relation to undeclared work that we, as I explained, would rather fight in other ways. Then there is the discussion about whether it is the case that, because you have raised the base allowance in the past, where it has created an effect, it means that if you raise the base allowance again, it will have a similar effect. And there we would certainly like to have some more certainty about it before we can go in and nod yes to something that is a tax relief for summer house owners and that in isolation will have a skewed effect in relation to the distribution of benefits in the community, that is to say, giving a tax relief to some who, from the outset, have more than others in this society, because it is people who are the owners of a summer house. So if we're going to go in and look at this, we're going to have to have a, what to say, more insight into whether it will have the positive consequences that the proposers would like it to have if it actually gets it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192034	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Rune Lund. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192048	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are always responsive if someone wants to improve the tax conditions for people or businesses. That's why we listen very carefully when DF comes up with this proposal. It is a relatively modest proposal, but it is an excellent proposal in relation to the intention. However, we are of the opinion that improvements in taxation must be general, i.e. that they do not only benefit one industry. This must be done in order for there to be a level playing field and for us to have a simpler tax system. We would therefore like to enter into a dialogue with the Danish People's Party on whether an increase in the base allowance for summer houses can also apply to other landlords, including private landlords, i.e. to equalise private landlords and agency-regulated landlords. Such equality will have a major impact on whether or not we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192150	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192155	Thank you for that to the Liberal Alliance. As I said, the proposal is to call for negotiations, and if it is adopted, it is something that can be discussed in the negotiations, i.e. whether it applies to the private sector. I and the Danish People's Party are in favour of equality, as Liberal Alliance speaks of, but in the Danish People's Party we are in favour of equality, both in terms of right and duty. And if you do not have equality of reporting obligations, it would also be illogical to give equality of treatment to increases in tax deductions. When it was last raised for the rental agencies, it was also raised for the private at the same time, so we would like to look at whether you can raise it for the private agencies, we are not at all opposed to it because you can also or should go all the way and equate the private ones with the rental agencies, both in terms of reporting obligations and, of course, increased tax deductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192304	Thank you, it is noted. We can continue the discussion after this discussion in the Chamber. I regard the motion for a resolution immediately as a call for discussion on exclusively regulated landlords, and that is why I am mentioning this issue of equality in my speech. But let us discuss it further, because the intention is good and, if we can achieve equality, we will of course be interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192336	We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next in the rapporteur's line, Mr President. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192348	We have also read the resolution with interest and think the intention is good. In other words, if we can create some growth in some areas where there may not be the desired growth today, attract more tourists and make it more interesting to operate or rent in some specific areas where there is a lack of activity today, then it is interesting. Where this is going to be a problem for the alternative, when we give a single group a special right or an opportunity to have lucrative taxation that others do not get and which the Liberal Alliance also mentioned. And if it were to be the case that one chose to do so, that is to say to give a group better conditions, then it should certainly be some who, in our view, had less than what one must assume holiday home owners have in general. You cannot cut cottage owners over a comb, but vice versa you can at least say that many of those who run cottage rentals will generally not be part of Low Income Denmark. And those of those who then have jobs or have a low-income economy and who, in the alternative, we would therefore think it might be possible to do something more for tax credits, would, in our view, be a few. That's why I don't think it's a good distribution to make this increase in the bottom allowance. But compared to the calculations that were supposed to show a need for these extra cottages because of... Increased demand, I am unsure of the figures we have seen whether it is something that will be lasting or whether it is a situation that may now appear to be so. It hasn't been there for a number of years now, and I could also imagine that the demand for other types of cottages than those that would be extra available with this will go more and more towards luxury. It is possible that this motion for a resolution will also provide a better framework for those who rent large luxury summer houses, but as a starting point it is my opinion that it will be an incentive for those who rent ordinary, fine, good summer houses, which I myself would also enjoy getting into. However, this may not be the high demand from abroad for quite large cottages. That is not something I can put a black line under and say is the facts, but the reason why we cannot support it is that we do not think it is a good distribution to give holiday home owners a lucrative tax advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192641	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192646	Thank you. When the alternative says what they say about the distribution, I can only admit that this tax relief will hit the 60,000 people who already have a rental summer house through an agency, plus the 1,000 that the industry estimates it will generate extra. So of course I do not deny that it is going to hit a group of about 61,000 holiday home owners. But it will also do something else. Holiday rental is fortunately a holiday form for a great many of those mentioned by the Alternative and who do not have much. It is a relatively inexpensive holiday form, which allows you to go 1 week in the summer holiday for 2,000 DKK, so that those who do not have much can spend the year saving that money. In this way, it will not only please those who, of course, benefit from the basic allowance, but it will also greatly please users, who are certainly also exactly the target group mentioned by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192753	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192755	I think that the supply is there today. I think that there are enough cottages to meet at least the needs we are talking about here. So they're the ones who want a cheap summer vacation. If we look forward, that something else is the case over a longer period of time, it may be that it becomes interesting to look at, but that is just not the snapshot that we see in the Alternative. Then I must also hurry to say that it is not only low-income families who should be allowed to go to the summer house. I do not hear the questioner say that either. But it's to give this tax advantage. If we were to do this in the alternative, it would have to be someone who has very little before we would do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192834	Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192835	As the rapporteur says, we are in a very vulnerable situation with the supply. We are precisely in the situation that we are being fully booked. That's what they're reporting. Now they don't have any more summer houses to rent out. If we do not regulate, if we do not do something from here that guarantees more summer houses on the market, what do they do next year and the year after when they do not have more summer houses? Let me know if they don't raise the price. Of course. And then you lose the target group that the rapporteur is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192912	That's an option. I cannot say whether it is true or wrong, but in the alternative we do not believe that we are in that situation. If we are fully booked, I would say that it will be a success story. Then there is real demand, and then the market usually regulates in such a way that there are some more who think it is interesting. If there are then some who cannot get a summer house, I am quite sure that some of the new players on the market will regulate the market in a way that will bring new housing for rent. So here I actually believe quite a lot that the market will help to regulate so that there will be more summer house owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192947	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Johannes Lebech, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519192956	We in the Radical Left are not unwilling to take a positive view of raising this base deduction. The motion for a resolution, which is based on experience gained from, inter alia, 2010 sounds to be a good, almost golden business, so it's hard to say no to it. But we have reservations, and we have also noted that the Minister has a great deal of reservations about it, so we must at least have the economic side of the matter in place. We need to be sure that the assessment will last. From our point of view, the aim of increasing the base allowance must be to achieve a general increase in tourist activity and the potential social gains. The fact that each summer cottage gets a prize in addition is okay, but it must not be the purpose of raising the base allowance from our point of view. So we're hesitant, but we're not a hundred percent reluctant to see it in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193107	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193108	I would like to stress very strongly that it is certainly not the purpose of the Danish People's Party to make this proposal that we would like to give a tax benefit to those who rent summer houses. We know that this is happening, but that is certainly not our primary purpose. Our primary objective is to create extra life in rural areas, where the majority of holiday homes are located, and to solve the obvious problem that demand is now greater than supply. And it is not just now: we can see that over the last 4 years it has just increased and increased with cottage rental. Of course, we would like to pay our respects. After all, the side benefit is that it brings much more life to rural areas and that there are more people who can rent summer houses. So that's our primary purpose. Just to make it clear that we're not doing this to make a tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193210	That is certainly not how I read the proposal. I am also very interested in rural activity. I myself come from Vestjylland, where there will be a great deal of interest in having more summer cottage guests and that the empty summer cottages can be filled with people who can benefit from the fact that we have such a large summer cottage capacity in Denmark. I also stressed that we are not rejecting the proposal as such, but we are financially cautious in our party, so we want to be sure that the social benefits will also be there. We have noted that the Minister is very thoughtful in this area, so let us look at the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193247	There is no wish for another brief comment, so we thank Mr. Johannes Lebech. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193301	Despite this and I can now reveal that we in the SF will not support the proposal, I think it is good that we get as many proposals on the table as possible in order to ensure that there is also life in the countryside in the future. Unfortunately, this is going the wrong way in many places, and there are many reasons for this. It is a general trend that people move to cities, but there are also a lot of things we can do ourselves. If we on the part of the SF do not support this, it is because there has already been an increase in the base deduction. We believe that doing so once again, regardless of whether it is DF's intention or not, will act as a tax relief for those who can afford to buy a summer house. So we cannot support it, and even if it should give it a small plus we have now heard calculations from both the industry and from the Ministry we believe that it will be a biased tax relief that will be given. There are so many things that can be done in rural areas. Right now, a lot of planning legislation is being discussed: hypermarkets, etc., and except when the school closes in a smaller town, the biggest disaster is when the merchant closes. I also think I have heard positive notes from the DF saying that it would be a disaster for many of the local communities to implement it. In the SF we have in the past presented a rural project which dealt with various things from broadband to a mortgage institution that should be able to deal with some of the specific challenges that are in some parts of the country, where the housing, as opposed to for example. Copenhagen is actually too cheap for mortgage banks. We have also proposed a change in municipal compensation. We think it is unfair that when you have a holiday home somewhere, you use the services in the municipality, but you pay your municipal tax where you live. This may sound a little fun in this context, but we have also proposed, together with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, a change to the fishing quota system. I mention this because a great many of the places where holiday homes are located have been communities where fishing has been of great importance; where local communities have got jobs out of fishing in secondary industries; and where we can see that hundreds of ports have been halved or closed in a few years. After all, young fishermen suffer not only from whom it is virtually impossible to enter the industry, but also from all the jobs it has generated since then. It was just to mention some of the areas that I think are very good and that the DF has voted against. That is fair enough, but it was just to say that, in relation to this proposal, we think it is socially wrong and we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193630	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193635	That is in relation to what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said about the fact that it was socially wrong. There I would just like to say to put an end to a myth about those who can afford to buy a holiday home, that in Denmark it is fortunately the case that you can actually buy holiday homes that cost little more than a new car, and therefore you can see among the people who rent their summer homes that there are teachers, SOSU assistants, nurses etc. So it's just to say it's not the top part of the upper class. On the contrary. They don't even need to rent out cottages. So those who rent summer houses are actually very middle class, and those who rent summer houses are very people that you find in the lower part of the income groups. So it is a great many people who can rent the summer houses. But even better: If we put an extra cottage on the market with this proposal, we just have to remember that the extra cottage we put on the market generates 300,000 kr. in the local area in which it is located, to the rural areas, and it is worth including.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193753	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193754	Well, these are some nice figures, and I think we might also be able to get an analysis of that from the Treasury. Nor do I hope that Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker has understood it in such a way that I do not think this could have some meaning. I doubt how important it is, but I do not think we should discuss it because I think it wants it. When I listed many of the other policy proposals that we made in the SF, it was to say that there are also many things that can be done that will affect a local area, and so it is not people with the lowest incomes in this country who are buying a holiday home. It just isn't. These are clearly middle class and upper middle class people, etc. Now I think that Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker also mentioned earlier that you could rent a summer house for 2,000 kroner. A week, and I think that's pretty few places in this country, you can do it in high season. At least I've been looking far and wide for it. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker can say so. I mean, when we already have a deduction of over $20,000, and if it costs only $2,000. to rent, it is still quite many weeks in high season that you can rent it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193906	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. I note that there is no rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519193937	Fortunately, it is soon summer, and for a rural rapporteur like me, it is really wonderful because it is actually in the summer that rural areas and islands are really visited by tourists. This is the time when there is plenty of work for those who live out there, where it is most beautiful, and if you see it from an economic point of view, the summer holiday is actually also really, really fun for the Treasury, because it is the case that in Denmark holiday rental is the most used holiday form at all, measured by the number of nights spent. But that is not all. Denmark has more foreign overnight stays in the summer houses than Sweden and Norway combined. Especially the Germans are very happy to come to Denmark and live in a cottage close to the sea, which they don't see too much of every day, and when they come, they also spend a lot of money for rides and in supermarkets and restaurants etc., and the demand for cottage rental is increasing year by year, and here are some examples. In 2013, cottage rental boasted 15 million overnight stays. By 2014, the figure had risen to 16.2 million. By 2015, it had risen to 17.4 million, and in 2016 it is estimated to be over 18.4 million overnight stays. This means that in the last four years, holiday rentals have increased by one million nights every year, and then you should think that those who work to rent summer houses must have difficulty in getting their arms down. They are also happy, of course, but unfortunately they have also ended up in the stupid situation, that now there are no more summer houses to rent, now it is all booked. They say no all the time to those who call and want to rent a cottage because everything is booked. They are acute and lack some 3,000 holiday homes for rent. It is well over half a billion dollars in lost income, and out of half a billion it is a good part that would have ended up in the treasury. It is really a pity, and we simply need to make sure that it does not happen again, that we do not stand by in the summer of 2017 and wave farewell to hundreds of millions of easily earned crowns in the treasury and on top of that wave goodbye to a lot of jobs in rural areas, because we must remember that the summerhouses are therefore primarily located in the sparsely populated areas. They are in the areas that have already been challenged in jobs and in the economy, and that is actually why I am making this proposal. This is because we in the Danish People's Party are very concerned about what we can do to ensure jobs and growth in rural areas. After all, we have an experience in raising the base allowance on vacation rental. First it was from 7,500 kroner. 10,000 kroner. and most recently it was from 10,000 kroner. to DKK 20,000, which was then regulated to DKK 21,000, and both times it turned out that there were more rental summer houses on the market and that it was not only expenditure-neutral but that it generated revenue in the Treasury. If we raise it to DKK 30,000, the industry estimates that it will generate approx. 1,000 more summer houses on the market. Several of those who today either do not rent their holiday home or rent it in small will find it attractive to rent it through an agency, just as has happened the two previous times it has been raised. But that's not all. Holiday rentals are companies in Denmark that stay in Denmark and where all their labour stays in the country. It is companies that generate jobs for unskilled and low-paid people in rural areas, and we therefore very much need them. Every holiday home that comes to rent generates an average of DKK 300,000. a year in revenue for the local area in which it is located, areas hard hit by relocation, money for craftsmen, restaurants, cleaning assistants, gardeners, pavers, museums, adventure parks, supermarkets, etc. Therefore, one can safely say about the cottage rental industry that it is doing well, so it is doing well both for our rural areas and for tax revenues. In the Danish People's Party, we are fighting for life and work in rural areas and islands, and we are not sad that money is also coming into the treasury. That is something we must admit. I would like to thank all of you, all of you, to all the rapporteurs, for a very good debate. I would like to thank you all for recognising this proposal here without exception. You have had various reasons for not being able to support it, but I can feel that there has not been a single one that has been completely disapproving of its intentions. That is why I think it is a little too bad that we cannot all vote in favour of it, because it is only to vote in favour of requiring the government to convene negotiations, that you do not commit yourselves to doing so by voting for it, and then it would have been fantastic if you could vote in favour of it, because then in the negotiations we could discuss the things that you have mentioned here and which are extremely relevant. Then we'd have had a chance to do it. Finally, the Conservative People's Party did not have the opportunity to be here today, but I should like to welcome them and say that they naturally support the proposal. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194546	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194550	It is just because, with the rapporteurs I have, I rarely speak rural policy. I would therefore like to ask a question about one of the proposals we have had in the SF in an area that I know the DF has also been very concerned about, namely that there are these so-called black spots on the map, where it is very difficult for people to sell their homes because they are simply in a completely different price range than for example. here in Copenhagen, and where it's very, very difficult for buyers to borrow money to buy these houses. And that's why it's very hard for people to get rid of them again. After all, it is poison for a local community if there are bankruptcies, foreclosures etc. and if the houses simply cannot be sold. So what does the rapporteur think of the idea of setting up a mortgage institution, where it could be state-supported, so to ensure that the houses are sold and bought and there is a healthy development in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194656	I think that is the same as what we have just written in the report we have submitted together with the Social Democrats, the Left and the Liberal Alliance. There were other parties with which I can't remember standing. The SF put forward the proposal for a State-supported mortgage institution, a proposal which, as I know, was certainly not funded. In the Danish People's Party we are in complete agreement as regards the black spots etc., which is why we have also had hearings and I am very sorry that the SF's rapporteur was not with the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority and with those who were standing out there with their hair in the mailbox and had a real problem in terms of buying or selling. Fortunately, after all, we have come so far now that some initiatives have been taken by the FSA in relation to the six-month rule, in relation to the 13,000 DKK rule. I hope that this will be the turn of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194805	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194807	I did not just reach that conference because I was not the rapporteur. I am rapporteur for nine other areas. However, I just thought that since I still had DF's rapporteur here, which is very rare, I would ask why it was that DF could not support that proposal. But I have received an answer to that, so it was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194830	We thank the rapporteur. I note that no one else has asked for the floor. And since that is the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194849	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519194909	Thank you for the floor, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by three members of the Alternative, and it goes without saying that pilots should be exempt from land taxation, for example. forest and scrub if the area is classified for biodiversity purposes. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is, according to the authors, to create incentives to protect and take account of nature. That is, of course, a sympathetic reason for the proposal. That is why I would also like to start by stating that the government agrees that efforts must be made to strengthen biodiversity. We have also made this clear in our government basis. And, of course, the forthcoming nature package will also include initiatives to help strengthen the biodiversity mentioned, provided, of course, that agreement can be reached with the parties to the agreement on it. As I said, it takes 90 seats. But it is not with me as a tax minister, and I think you should be happy about that, because we in the Treasury do not know much about that. On the other hand, we understand a number of other things, including: tax and tax legislation, and I will come back to that. In parallel with the negotiations of the Minister for the Environment and Food, a number of other initiatives have been launched to contribute to the strengthening of nature and biodiversity. For example: On 20 April, the government presented a month ago the Natura 2000 plans, which over the next six years ensure a targeted nature effort in the particularly valuable Natura 2000 areas, an effort that is budgeted to cost approx. 1.8 billion kr. The government therefore agrees that action must be taken in relation to biodiversity. We will not disagree with the authors of the motion for a resolution on this. However, we do not agree that this should be done by subsidising pilots through the tax rules, in other words supporting pilots through the tax rules. I also understood from the alternative before that, as a starting point, one is most interested in granting tax relief to low-income groups. I am not sure that they will be hit by facilitating the tax on Section 3 areas. According to the rules of the valuation law, the basic value must be valued as the value of the land in its unaltered state on the assumption that the land is used for the purpose of achieving the best economic result. It is therefore a sensible principle which gives rise to the use of the opportunities offered by a land and an area. It should be good for our society. It is such a fundamental principle that hopefully makes society richer and richer. In determining the basic value of e.g. forestry intended for biodiversity purposes must take into account that the condition of the land must not be changed. And exemption from land taxation for land set aside for biodiversity purposes will mean that the tenants will actually receive a further subsidy, in other words, in addition to the aid already granted for nature conservation and restoration. The proposal will therefore also result in less revenue, i.e. less revenue for the State, for which the proposers have not allocated funding. I have asked my ministry to calculate what the revenue implications of the proposal will be, and the proposal is estimated to result in an immediate reduction in revenue in the order of 100 million. kr. In the long term, I would say, the loss of revenue may increase, as the proposal provides an incentive for more land to be allocated to biodiversity. So it can suddenly become a good business • an even better business than today • to plan its area for biodiversity. It is therefore important in terms of a lower income for the Treasury and society, whether you want to support the health sector, the elderly or something else. However, the estimate is, I must hurry to say, linked to uncertainty, as is always the case with an estimate, but we do not get around the fact that the proposal is likely to cost a larger million dollars. I think that the alternative is a breath of fresh air in the Folketing, and I also think that they put some interesting things on the agenda, but I also have to say that I think it is a little too easy to table a resolution without pointing out where the money should come from and without examining what it will cost in this case 100 million. kr., and that's quite a lot of money. That is why I would like to call on the alternative to also explain how it is going to be financed here, otherwise it does not make much sense to have this discussion at least not in Parliament, so we could have it elsewhere in the public, in a committee room or in a third place. But it was such a remark, which is not an expression of teasing or anything else. I think it is important that we have a high level of debate in the Assembly, that the debates lead to something and not just a debate in itself. We can then discuss how to finance things, but it is therefore necessary to relate to funding when proposing something that costs quite a lot of money. Finally, I would like to return to where I started, and that is what I have to sign up to the alternative for us to agree that efforts must be made to stop the decline in biodiversity. It is also a key element of the nature package currently in place. negotiated. However, we disagree with the fact that it is a tax exemption for which there is no provision for funding that is the way there. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195441	One person has asked for a brief comment. And this is sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195446	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for a positive mention. After all, this proposal is a small selection of our nature package, where there are 42 proposals that we have presented in the past, and the Minister then asks for an explanation of where the money is to be obtained. I would say that our approach to this is, of course, that there are some bound tasks. One of those mentioned by the Minister himself is to stop the decline in biodiversity. There we need both efforts in the open country and efforts for nature in the forests and in the sea, and this resolution can solve some of the problems created by the agricultural package in the open country. And that's where the extra-bound assignments come in. After all, several points point to the fact that, in the wake of the agricultural package, we are going to be in conflict with perhaps three directives. In other words, there are some things that need to be resolved and compensated for, so my question to the Minister is: does the Minister not see here a special opportunity in a relatively inexpensive way to solve some of the bound tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195605	Not immediately, but I understand that the alternative raises the debate, and I also understand what is being said. I think you just have to be careful that this can be very technical. We cannot have long political disagreements about the restoration of biodiversity. There may then be disagreement about how to do it and how to finance it. However, it is not all debates that are suitable for a motion for a resolution or a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly where there are limitations, because we have a certain number of seconds to ask questions and answer them. So both of these issues have a political character which we may perhaps be able to talk about here, but at least they also have a technical character which requires more time than is available in the form of the debate we have here. It was such kind advice on how the alternative might arrive more quickly at what you want and what is being asked. But I cannot answer the question as it is being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195707	Sir. Christian Poll also wants his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195711	Thank you. I have also read the memorandum from the minister's ministry and tried to do a little math on these figures. And I'm gonna make it that if you take these 350,000 hectares, which are presented as §3 Nature, and let all the land come in, we're gonna end up at this 70 million. kr., which may turn into 100 million. kr., because certain areas are set slightly higher fiscally. But I don't imagine it's all 100 percent. If we talk about 10%, we're going down in the order of 7-10 million. kr., and I guess it's a pretty cheap tool, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195755	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195756	Yes, but that is not how I understand the motion for a resolution, which is why I think I will give a friendly parliamentary advice, and that is really kind. In other words, there are different ways of achieving what you want, and I believe that the debate that is being raised here by the Alternative is better to travel elsewhere and in other ways than in the Assembly. A motion for a resolution can also be dealt with in the committees, and there are a number of parliamentary ways of doing so. Last but not least, of course, I would also like to put forward a discussion in consultation and other matters in the Committee on Taxation. But on this basis it costs some money, and there is no funding for that. And even if there were, the government does not think it would be the right way to achieve what we saw in fact agree with the alternative, namely that something needs to be done about biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195842	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur in the rapporteur's line is Mr Cryer. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519195851	On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to acknowledge that the alternative with the proposal raises a relevant debate on how we can ensure biodiversity in Denmark. For us, it is absolutely crucial that ambitious measures are taken to ensure that the loss of biodiversity in Denmark is stopped and turned to progress. Coherent nature is essential for species to spread, and coherent nature will help to safeguard the future of the parts of nature that are threatened. At the same time, we are also very concerned about finding the right balance where the agricultural framework conditions are improved without our nature, environment and drinking water having to pay the price. We must have a proper environment and a proper nature, while at the same time ensuring growth and employment. When the Social Democrats sat in government, we made an ambitious nature plan • Nature plan Denmark • Nature plan Denmark. It was the first time ever that a Danish government presented an overall long-term and strategic plan for Denmark's nature. As part of the plan, we launched the green Danish map, which is the Social Democratic proposal for an offensive strategy that will create more coherent nature. Subsequently, the government has cancelled the green Danish map despite opposition from among others. KL. This is a pity because high natural ambitions should be accompanied by politicians who set out a clear direction for how nature should develop. So we welcome the fact that the Alternative raises a debate on how we can ensure biodiversity in Denmark, but in the Social Democracy we believe that we best ensure nature by coming together on a common overall plan that both takes care of Danish biodiversity and nature, while ensuring good framework conditions for the industry. We also believe that we will best ensure nature if we achieve a broad political majority in the Folketing, so that we also ensure stability and lasting objectives. The concrete proposal from the Alternative, which we are considering today, to exempt landowners from land taxation is part of the overall nature package of the Alternative, which contains more than 40 different natural policy proposals. I would like to say that, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party respect the fact that the alternative has created a comprehensive package of nature. I also have to put myself in the vanguard of the Minister and say that we also believe that the alternative should consider whether it is the right method to get the package implemented, that is to say that we have to deal with each individual measure separately in the Parliamentary Assembly, without any kind of funding being given to the proposals. In concrete terms, the Minister now informs us from Parliament's platform that this proposal could cost about 100 million. kr. for which no funding has been assigned. Several of the proposals from the Alternative Nature Package have already been considered and have not received a majority or support, so I think that the Alternative can re-evaluate its strategy for dealing with its party-political nature package. I believe that there are also other parties that make nature packages along the way, without each proposal being cut up like slices of a sausage and then dealt with separately in the Parliamentary Assembly. So with these comments, I should just like to say that the Socialists cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200214	Sir. Christian Poll has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200218	Thank you. As has already been said, our nature package consists of 42 proposals, and it would be quite impossible to deal with the whole package here in the Assembly, also because it is very different proposals. After all, it is a big mix of many different instruments directed at different types of nature, and what we have done is that we have selected a small part of them that we are dealing with. Because they're very different in different ways. Does the rapporteur not agree that this particular instrument is actually quite targeted and that it will be able to solve some of the problems that scientists have just pointed out there are no solutions to in the agricultural package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200306	Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200308	I would like to start by signing that we can then expect not to have to deal with all 42 proposals, and that is a start. But regardless of what I think, in order to remain on the parliamentary track, one can consider the whole of the package, and then a committee can take a position on it and report if that is the way one wants to go. I am only saying this because, at the same time as having an idealistic folk regime, it is also important to have a more or less effective folk regime. So it's alone in that sense, and it's kindly meant. If, in relation to the proposal on the instrument, we now take the consequence of what I have said and take a more comprehensive debate on it, that is to say on an overall package involving nature and biodiversity, then it is clear that all possible proposals can come into play, including this one. But when I do not think it is an appealing instrument, it is because I have to return to the financing of it. It is, after all, an effective tax reduction for agriculture of 100 million. kr., which in the Minister's words is also expected to increase over the years. It is a lot of money that must then be found, and indeed probably in the same area. So I think it seems like a costly instrument.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200416	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Poll's second brief remark? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200417	[Sound emission]... page it is estimated that the root cause of this type of area is between DKK 100 and DKK 300. per This means that we have come to the conclusion that it is 70-100 million. kr., if all 350,000 ha § 3 nature will be included in the scheme. But that's not our idea. We imagine that it will start at a much lower level and that it may end up at 10%, and then we are down to talking about something like 7-10 million. kr. I guess it's a pretty cheap way to protect a lot of this low-bottom nature in the open country, like it's typically • who needs the protection that the agricultural package provides.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200502	Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200505	I would like to start by saying that I fully agree that the agricultural package poses some problems which will have to be resolved by future political majority in this Parliament, so far we are in agreement. But I also have to deal with the proposal as it is being put forward, and there I see a proposal that has been made with regard to the overall package, and let us just play with the idea that we are going down to about 10-15 million. kr. But they are still not financed, and in the Minister's own words that amount will continue to increase in the years ahead, and there is still no funding for it. And I think that is something that we owe when we have a debate on this in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200544	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. We move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200555	As I have said, the motion for a resolution before us concerns the exemption of land set aside for nature for biodiversity purposes for land taxation, i.e. section 3 areas with forests and scrubs, and there can probably be other things as well. It is true that when you propose to exempt someone from a tax, it costs money, which is why I can already say that we can reject the proposal because of a lack of funding, among other things. because what the tax minister says costs up to 100 million. kr., and it is an amount that will rise forward. I would actually just like to say that it is quite a good custom that when Parliament proposes to abolish a tax and it costs money, then you call for funding. Otherwise, at least it is the stone-proof path towards something being rejected. When it comes to the more specific content of the motion for a resolution, I think it is a very sympathetic purpose which, overall, means that we want to create an incentive to protect nature more. We agree entirely with that and that we want to strengthen biodiversity, which is much needed, and with which I also believe there is a broad majority in the Folketing that agrees. That is precisely why we are also involved as a party in the negotiations on a natural package which is currently being conducted under the auspices of the Danish Parliament and which, among other things, is. has the same purpose, that is to strengthen biodiversity. However, I would also like to say that I do not necessarily think that this is a good solution, as the Minister of Taxation also said, that this should be done through tax incentives for landowners. I don't think that's necessarily the best way to do that. In conclusion, however, as I have already said, we cannot support the proposal for the main reason that there is simply no funding behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200744	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200748	Thank you. There is, of course, a great deal of interest in funding, which is why I would like to mention that, in the alternative, we have a great deal of focus on all the support given to fossil energy indirectly and directly, it is in the order of 40 billion. kr. a year, fossil energy is supported with • and you can just take an example from agriculture. The lower diesel tax in agriculture alone gives agriculture an advantage of 1.5 billion. kr. A year, and in that light, these may be 10-50 million. kr. That's a small number. So, if money is to be found, we could well suggest from the alternative that some of the support for fossil energy should be turned down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200840	Well, thank you for that suggestion. It is good to hear that there are some things on which the Alternative focuses. But we cannot finance things in the Folketing with what the Alternative focuses on. This requires it to be written into the proposal so that you can deal with it from the parliamentary platform. It is a good thing that some thought is being given. This may also be just a call for it to be written into the proposal next time, so that it can also be seen from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200902	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200905	Then there is the angle I have mentioned earlier, namely that we actually also have some bound tasks to which this could be part of the solution. That is to say, if you are not on this proposal to solve the tied tasks, then you have to find some other proposals that may be more expensive. There I can, for example. I should like to mention the three directives that we are likely to be at odds with as a result of the agricultural package. It will then be relevant to find solutions that are as cheap as possible and as targeted as possible to address that issue. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519200937	I think it is quite relevant that we are trying to find a solution to how we can strengthen biodiversity in Denmark, but that does not change the fact that there is funding behind it. After all, we cannot finance things with good emotions or hot air or discussions about what we have of demands. It is therefore also necessary to finance a proposal costing 100 million. kr. now and will rise in expenses. So you have to deal with that instead of just talking about this being good and lovely. If there is no money for it, the discussion will die just like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201007	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series. It's sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201020	Nature and biodiversity are of great concern to us in the Left. Therefore, biodiversity is also written into the government base and the first concrete steps have been taken in the form of discussions on the content of the nature package. In other words, the Left shares the ambition of the proposers to take action in relation to biodiversity. However, the way is divided, in relation to whether the tax rules should be used as a tool in this respect. In practice, the proposal means that there will be subsidies in the form of a tax rebate, up to and including an unfinanced one, since the proposers have failed to indicate how much the proposal costs and where the money will come from. According to the valuation law, it is already necessary to take into account when determining the value if a given area is not to be changed, as is the case if an area is leased for biodiversity purposes. This means that a pilot already pays a little less tax for these land than if it were for example ordinary forest land, and this proposal will therefore mean that in future pilot owners will be released even more cheaply. In the Left we do not think that any taxes are too low, but it is clear that if we are to spend the money on tax cuts, that should be where it makes the most sense. The Left supports initiatives that promote biodiversity, but this proposal will cost the Treasury a larger million dollars and no funding has been allocated, and therefore the Left will vote against the proposal. Then I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201200	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. One person has asked for a brief comment, I apologise. It's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201207	We have tried, in the alternative here, to come up with targeted regulation. We have also been inspired by voluntary tools, which we have plenty of in the agricultural package. So here we have created an incentive to create more nature, to spare the little fine nature we have in the open country. Is it not something that, as such, fits in with the way in which the agricultural package on the part of the government is also screwed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201240	Well, as I have already indicated, it is also very important for us in the Left to make some efforts in relation to biodiversity. We do, among other things. We are fully aware of this also in the context of the nature package. However, as previous rapporteurs have said in this debate, it would have been a little useful if the alternative were also to give an indication of the financing of its proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201302	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201305	As I have said, we can find funding when we start the financial law negotiations, for this type of thing, because we believe that support for fossil energy needs to be cut. We merely believe that the proposal we are making here is an example of something that could precisely fit in with the way the agricultural package is screwed up and could give the boost that may be necessary if we get to grips with more EU directives. So does the rapporteur not think that this could be a good solution in that sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201338	It is a bit surprising that the alternative is now really beginning to talk about unfinanced tax cuts. That is not what is usually indicated. And then, in my first answer, I have also indicated the Left's answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201355	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund for Enhedslisten. Sir. Rune Lund must be praised for moving with the dignity required in the Chamber and for not running. That's nice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201417	A great many natural areas have disappeared from the Danish landscape and with them the habitats of many wild animals and plants. Every five of the 32,000 Danish species in total are on the brink of extinction, and 90 per cent. of the habitat types which Denmark is particularly obliged to protect have so-called unfavourable conservation status. In the open country, it looks really bad. The number of vibes, for example, is: went back by more than 40%. and starlings with more than 60%. over the past 40 years. However, with the current government, the protection of these vulnerable natural areas and species has suffered a severe crack. To a large extent, the government has opted for more environmental pollution in the open country. We saw how the government hastily beaten up an agricultural package which allowed farmers to fertilise more. With it, demands for peripheral zones have been removed and more pigs per year. hectares will be allowed. All in all, the government has made great efforts to promote incredibly short-term economic interests in agriculture, and the government has always given assurances that these reductions in nature protection will be offset by measures in the government's natural package. However, we can see that we have not yet seen a single proposal from the government to compensate for the profoundly worrying reductions in environmental regulation that have been introduced. A package of nature is currently being negotiated to compensate for a bit of the miser, but the question is how much it is going to upset anything about the many deteriorations that have been introduced. Therefore, when the accounts are to be settled, we must expect a massive impoverishment of nature in the open country. Against this background, we welcome the alternative proposal. It is relevant to get a kick in the debate on how to counter parts of the government's hasty agricultural policy. The fact is, however, that if we had retained some of the regulation that the government has now relaxed with great zeal, this proposal would not be necessary. There was regulation which meant that farmers themselves had to limit their production very sensibly, so that necessary natural considerations were taken care of, and the cost of this was thus borne by the farmer himself. With this proposal, the farmer must be paid to take care of nature with taxpayers' money. It is a shift in burden sharing, and we are against that as a starting point. We believe that agriculture as a starting point should be managed on the basis of nature. We believe that the proposal contains a number of interesting reflections and positive tactics which we would very much like to recognise and which we know the alternative is very much concerned with, as do we ourselves in the Enhedslisten. Among other things, we think that the idea of extending areas to permanent nature is interesting. But there are also a number of things that we would like to see clarified, among other things. through an overall assessment of economic and natural potential in a social perspective. We would also like to discuss financing in more detail. Where's the money gonna come from for this? So there are a number of things that we would like to see drilled further during the committee procedure before we, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, will be able to take our final decision on this proposal. However, we recognise the many positive intentions behind the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201750	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519201802	Thank you. This motion for a resolution B 123 is clearly the most interesting motion for a resolution I have seen in my time in Parliament from the point of view of the alternative. It also clearly sets the record of how I and the Liberal Alliance have been in agreement with Mr. Christian Poll and the Alternative. For as part of the Liberal Alliance's overall economic plan, it is precisely a proposal for the complete abolition of production land taxation on all production land, including both agricultural land and forest in Denmark. Therefore, a proposal to remove the land tax on a subset of the total area of production, that part of which is produced by a variety of nature, is a step in the right direction. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, we do not think that nature and biodiversity should be taxed. On the contrary, we believe that the state should focus its efforts on nature and the environment, for example. increased biodiversity, which is not regulated by the free market. That effort could possibly be done by creating better financial incentives to care for nature. Before I give my total unqualified support to the motion for a resolution, however, there are some elements that I would like to clarify or clarify in connection with the future work of the committee, for example whether this is a completely voluntary scheme to which the pilots themselves may wish to be transferred. Indeed, it is important for the Liberal Alliance that landowners retain the option of choosing for themselves what and how they will cultivate their land, and that any restrictions imposed may be imposed solely against compensation. Thus, there must still be the possibility of fully operating its § 3 area or forest, as has always been done. There is also the question of the economy in this and, of course, such a resolution needs funding. There must be funding for this, and it is fortunate that the Liberal Alliance can help the alternative; the alternative must only join the Liberal Alliance's economic plan. If the alternative wishes to finance the proposal differently, we must, of course, weigh up the advantages and disadvantages very carefully before we can agree to the motion for a resolution. But there is also the question of the owners' economy. With the conditions laid down in the motion for a resolution that land should be freed from fertilizing and spraying, I fear that the economic incentive for the nature care of individual pilots will disappear. The ban on fertilization reduces the feed value of the area, and that is what makes it profitable to carry out the natural necessary grazing. We are therefore at risk with the proposal that there might be more wild nature, but less nature care, and that would be unfortunate. In addition, the proposal unnecessarily complicates the fact that SKAT seems to have to check in the future whether or not game feeding is carried out on the land, and I wonder if SKAT can find it difficult to prioritize resources for that particular task. In any case, managing the proposal would also be very complicated, as the natural state, section 3 protected areas of the Nature Conservation Act, is indeed a dynamic concept so that status can change over time, and in terms of authority as well as legal certainty it is probably not appropriate. In addition, I also have a number of other issues relating to registration and parallelism with peace forest, which I hope will be clarified in committee as well. In this way, the proposal is viewed with liberal spectacles, perhaps in reality, more sympathetic than it has been thought through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202230	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202235	Thank you. There are many things to answer. Yes, the scheme is intended as a voluntary scheme, because we are going to try to meet the Government's wishes in the agricultural package to use this type of instrument. And it is an economic instrument that we think can give the effect it now has that we do not reach 100 per cent. of all section 3 areas with this, and that is why the proposal will not be as expensive as indicated by the Minister, for example, at least not for the time being. With regard to this issue of funding, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it would not be a good idea to look at the fossil taxes, i.e. the rebate granted to agriculture in diesel taxes, compared with all other taxes on diesel. It is reasonable to have a more equal taxation on such things as fuel, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202338	The last point with regard to financing through the offsetting of diesel taxes is quite clear to me. This is not part of the Liberal Alliance's economic plan. However, my offer that by accepting the economic plan of the Liberal Alliance, the alternative can find funding for the resolution in question is still in force. Then I am also pleased to note that the alternative is voluntary here. This contrasts with certain other parties here in the Folketing, which might make a similar proposal and which often operate under compulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202418	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202420	Thank you. I can't answer this with the entire Liberal Alliance model, but I think it's a long way from the alternative. But I would just like to address this with fertilization and livestock, because the idea that fertilization is a prerequisite for grazing is contradictory, because it is the fertilization that makes it grow. So, if you stopped with a fertilizing, the need for grazing would fall, fewer animals would be able to graze larger areas, and then species diversity would increase further. So it's actually thought that we get more nature by not having to fertilize.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202459	Yes, to this extent it is true that it was also most of all about the financial incentive for the farmer in relation to nature care on these § 3 areas. However, the rapporteur for the alternative is probably right in that conclusion about less fertilization and thus a less need for grazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202525	A brief comment from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202528	All I have to do is ask Mr. Carsten Bach to answer, since any funding is now being referred to the economic plan of the Liberal Alliance, how it is compatible with the response given by the Minister of Finance in the Committee on Finance, the general part, Question 130 of this session, in which the economic plan of the Liberal Alliance has been calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202602	It is therefore related to the fact that the economic plan of the Liberal Alliance is a 10-year plan, and then it is clear that when you take two years of revenue out of the plan without also reducing expenditure, there is not the original coherence of the plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202624	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202626	In other words, the question referred to is where the Ministry of Finance has been asked to calculate the economic level of the Liberal Alliance on the basis, among other things, of. The statements by the President of the Liberal Alliance that user charges will not be included, and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's statement that you want to continue the property tax stop. And based on that, sir. Carsten Bach then not only confirm that there is a very large billion deficit in the calculation made by the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202704	No, I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202708	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202716	I will begin by not making any poetry about biodiversity. Everyone knows that we will also fight for a high level of biodiversity, but the evening is so advanced that I will neither speak of larks nor vibes this evening. I would just like to say that we are opposed to the proposal, and that is especially because we believe that the model that emerges, namely tax deduction, is not the right model to promote biodiversity and to motivate farmers to become more involved in nature protection. We fully acknowledge this, but we do not think it is an economically sensible proposal. Without having to put forward an alternative proposal, I can say that we see a much greater modulation of agricultural aid as an opportunity to promote nature conservation and biodiversity in the Danish country. So we must reject it, despite the fact that we recognise, of course, that there are very good natural intentions behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202825	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202829	Thank you. We get an assessment from the Ministry that shows that we are talking about a price of DKK 100-300. per hectares, which should give this effect to some degree for some number of hectares at national level. Isn't that a pretty good price?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202851	I do not have an immediate basis for assessing this. It's the technique itself, that is, the purely tax deduction, which we think is a bad tool to use in this context. And I will be confirmed if the calculation made by the Minister and I have no reason to question it with a loss of revenue of 100 million. kr. is correct that it is not the right model to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202912	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202913	But the 100 million. kr. is assuming that all § 3 areas in Denmark will be transferred to this scheme, and that is hardly realistic. I would guess myself that we start with a few percentages and over a number of years can get more and more, but far from all of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202934	Nor is it the loss of revenue in itself that we are concerned about; it is the very tool of granting a tax credit. We do not think this is the right instrument. We see much more scope for this promotion of biodiversity and nature conservation through modulation of agricultural aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519202954	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203008	The government is about to present a package of nature, and unfortunately we do not have great expectations of the agreement that the government is making with the blue block. The amount is quite marginal in relation to the challenge. The economic priority of 89 million. kr. equal to the cost of moving the Danish Hunting and Forestry Museum from Hørsholm to Djursland. In comparison, there are 10 billion. kr. in subsidies to agriculture each year. The Folketing and the government will soon have to decide what we want with the Danish nature. There are voices in the Left who regard nature as a limitation of agriculture. For some it is not enough for agriculture to manage 62 per cent. of the Danish land area. There must also be no nature outside this area without the need for reductions in agricultural emissions. This is among other things. That is why the Left has abolished the green Danish map that we had introduced during our reign. In SF's view, the nature package must be measured by the long-term impact on nature and thus the policy decisions contained in the package. Since 1999, the OECD has, inter alia: urged Denmark to set time limits on the targets, and it would be great if the nature package were to contain concrete targets and time limits. Then our negative expectations will be put to shame. In the SF we propose that the Folketing decide to 40%. of Denmark's land area must be nature in 2050 and that 17 per cent. of the Danish land area must be designated with nature and biodiversity as the main purpose. In the SF we have a number of proposals and now I come to the concrete ones in relation to the Alternative's proposals • other proposals on how to increase the natural area while preserving and increasing natural quality, for example. that in future natural watercourses should have climate adaptation as their purpose. Among other things, it will: mean that the creeks get their beds back, so there is room for water supplies all year round, and it will also retain nutrients and climate gases; contained and dry lakes and fjords must be released; positive incentives to house and nurture nature and create new nature also in the fieldland must replace the current negative incentives that force the farmer to produce even on bad lands. This list was to say that we're a really long way along the way in agreement with the alternative. In fact, we think that in some areas there are far too many negative incentives to do the wrong thing, among other things. to produce where the yield is not high in advance and where the soil cannot stand it. We want to help spend some money on these financial incentives too. We would also like to take part in the debate and have proposed, as Mr. Johannes Lebech was concerned with targeting EU agricultural aid to a greater extent for these purposes. When the alternative's proposal keeps getting shot in the shoes that it costs something, we have to say that well there is so much that costs a lot of money. Agriculture gets 10 billion. kr. In support, and for counterweight, you then spend on a natural package, which is the equivalent of moving a museum from one part of the country. It is not to say that it should not be financed, but I just think we could find a lot of opportunities for that. The fact that we are not one hundred per cent on this proposal in addition to the intention is because we believe that it may seem a little arbitrary to exempt section 3 land from land tax, because there may be both overcompensation and undercompensation, in relation to the specific challenge or the costs that may be associated with it. So we are not going to talk this proposal down, because what I see as the main intention is to say that there are some principles we actually think should be reinstated in Danish politics, for example. The polluter pays. It's gotten a little out of the discussion in this area. On the other hand, we also believe that there are other areas where incentives are simply too bad to take care of that nature, as many farmers would like to do. So we fully agree with the intention in this. Maybe it's another model that's going to be where you've got a model that's gonna figure out what it's gonna cost to make this nature effort. But it shouldn't spoil the good mood. We fully agree that positive incentives must also be in play in order to achieve what we both want, but which is also necessary if we are to at least ensure a stop to the decline in biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203508	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203526	The alternative has presented a natural package of 42 proposals, and we have picked some of them out for discussion here in Parliament, and B 123 is one of them. With this proposal we have tried to hit some of the style that the government has put in the agricultural package, in other words a kind of targeted regulation and some financial incentives, and then try to see if it would win some reverberation to make that kind of proposal based on those instruments. When this proposal is important, it is because we have only heard about nitrogen in the agricultural package, which is being guided into the near sea areas, and that is only 30 per cent. of the manure that reaches out there. The excess manure will be retained in the near countryside along the fields, and we will try to find solutions to this with a proposal like this. So it's 70%, and it's nitrogen and pesticide consumption and phosphorus that cause problems in these areas. That is why we have come up with this proposal, which is that consumption can be reduced in the areas most in need, that consumption is turned down and that an economic instrument can be used to achieve it. I have heard that there is quite a broad consensus on the intention of the proposal. There has also been an expectation that the alternative has been able to point to funding, and I would like to say there, as I have said in the debate, that we have a few bound tasks, that we have to solve the problem of halting the decline in biodiversity and turning it into progress, and that we may have some problems with the agricultural package in relation to three EU directives that we have to comply with. This could be part of the solution that will enable us to continue to comply with these directives. I look forward to the work of the committee, where we can look a little at the economic and natural potentials that it has been asked for. The funding we have discussed has been proposed by the Alternative itself today to look at the support for fossil energy, which is so abundant. We've just turned this around with cattle. There are quite a few other things to look at in relation to cattle farming, but if there is interest in it in the committee, we can also look at it, i.e. look at rules on the level of feed in the winter, which may need to be adjusted and which can make it better worth having cattle on this type of land.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203821	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203826	Thank you. After all, over a few evenings in this Chamber we have heard about the natural package of the alternative, namely the 42 points that have been put forward. On this point tonight, as we have seen in previous debates, there has been a general trend in the rapporteur's speeches and also in the Minister's speech, namely the question of the lack of funding for these proposals. So I would like to ask: What does the alternative mean that it costs to implement the party's natural package? What's the price for it? And where does the alternative suggest that funding to implement the natural package can be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203904	We do not have total funding for our nature package. If there is a majority, for example. For a proposal such as the one we are discussing here, we will, of course, play it into the financial law negotiations as an element for which we will seek funding. It can then come from many different sources. After all, what is important to us is the natural value and that we can continue to comply with the EU directives we have to do and that we can do it properly despite the agricultural package adopted by the government and its support parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203944	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519203946	Thank you. I still miss hearing what it is believed that the natural package of the alternative will cost, i.e. what the total cost is. Now we heard the tax minister today telling us that this proposal in isolation can amount to 100 million. kr., if you see it fully phased in, and 100 million. kr. If you just play with that idea, you can become that it's quite a lot of money that needs to be found in a Finance Act. So does the alternative have any idea what the nature package costs? And can we point out in some places within the financial regulatory framework that would be able to finance all or part of the package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204025	We have not done that exercise, and we also have the impression that it is quite normal that, as an opposition party, we do not have the opportunity to make as detailed a calculation as it takes, but we would like to make proposals like what we have done with the nature package. It is based on the idea that we should have a better nature than today, that we should stop the decline in biodiversity and that there are other bound tasks. And then, of course, there must be resources for this, and the 42 proposals will probably have a very different price, which will also depend on how you calculate it. Some of them will probably go in plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204102	There is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204106	Thank you. I would just like to ask, following on from the question put by the previous questioner, whether you yourself do not think it a bit irresponsible to come to the Folketing with a lot of proposals, and when you are asked what the funding is, you simply refer to a financial law, so that we others just have to find the money. At least you have to have a little idea of how you want to finance your 42 points yourself. With regard to just the one proposal of 100 million. If you don't even have a little idea of it yourself, it's gonna be a bit irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204138	We have seen reports of how many resolutions have been tabled in this Chamber, and that is 193 in this session, as I understand it. When I remember back, very few of them are funded, so we don't think there's a tradition of doing that at this level. After all, as an opposition party, we cannot have the same access to calculators as a government. At the same time, I would like to say that it is also because we want a political debate, that is to say a debate about the desire for a better nature, we want to save our climate, we want to address the major problems we have today, and when we find good solutions for how we can go further in that direction, we will also be involved in some financial negotiations to find the means to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204233	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204235	I understand, of course, that the alternative does not have a lot of financial advisers who can sit and calculate it here, but that is precisely why we, as Members of Parliament, have the opportunity to ask committee questions, and we could have done so a long time before to find out what this costs. After all, the Minister himself has taken the trouble to ask his officials what it costs, so if the alternative had taken the trouble, they would probably have been told how much it costs. So it is a bad excuse to say that there is no tradition that you can get to know it and that you cannot ask and that you cannot do so yourself. We have every opportunity, before a resolution is tabled, to know what it costs and to come up with a financing proposal. Then it may well be that there is no majority in favour of funding, but it is a bad thing that 42 points should be put forward in this way without even having a small idea of where to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204314	There I have mentioned that we have actually asked the question ourselves and received the reply from the Minister, who gives this estimate of DKK 100-300. per acres. Then you can guess how widespread such a scheme would be. The Minister has referred to if it would all be widespread, in other words 350,000 hectares plus the loose, but I do not think such a scheme would come at all, because I think it would be much cheaper, and we will do so, for example. could be found in a debate in which we reduce support for fossil energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204350	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204353	Thank you. It has been throughout the debate here on the alternative proposal that there is no provision for funding. And it has also been quite pervasive from a large number of parties that you kind of put your finger on it a little. The most striking thing that has been said in this way has actually been said by the Social Democrats' Henrik Sass Larsen, who has said directly that, overall, it is a mere bluff. What is the rapporteur's comment on the fact that such a term is given to one's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204422	The progress of the alternative, I think, points very well to the fact that we are not a bluff. We are a party that has a place in Denmark today. We are seriously involved in financial law negotiations when we are invited to do so and have been involved in political agreements that have borne fruit. So I think it's a rather untrue way of accessing it. What we are doing here is a resolution like so many others. And yes, we have been given an indication by asking the Minister about the order of magnitude, but of course we cannot give a precise calculation of what this proposal will cost. If we get a calculation of what it will cost, we will be able to propose in a budget debate where the money will come from. And that could be the case, for example. be from all the support given to fossil energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204518	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204520	Thank you. I also take note of the fact that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen is, of course, one of the, I understand, expectably close collaborators, bearing in mind that the rapporteur's own chairman clearly and unequivocally stated here the other day that the alternative is a clear left-wing party, that there is no doubt whatsoever about that. When it comes to this very precise final decision on where you belong, it is clear that you belong in the left-wing bloc, on the red side. How does the rapporteur feel about getting such a name from the probably leading party, should it come to that? That must be a little weird. How does the rapporteur feel about this? We need to get a little closer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204600	The alternative is a green party which recognises that we need to work seriously on the sustainable transition. That is our main objective. I don't know where to put us on the scale, but that's what we're fighting for. It is important for us to hold on to it, and our constituents expect us to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204622	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204639	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204657	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Liberal Alliance for having tabled the motion for a resolution. The Danish Nature Agency owns six large campsites, all integrated in the other areas of the Danish Nature Agency. All six seats are in peace forest, and four of the seats are in whole or in part within the beach protection line. Both in the peace forest and in areas within the beach protection line, there is a ban on felling and, according to current practice, no derogation is normally granted to such stretchings. Thus, for regulatory reasons, the land has not been sold from, and the Danish Nature Agency therefore owns the land which is rented to private persons on market terms through open public tenders. The campsites themselves are also operated by private persons operating the campsites on equal terms with other tenants of campsites. The six largest campsites come from the former Clit and were built for among others. to be able to identify suitable sites for camping purposes on highly tourist and open-air used areas near the best beaches. The campsites all form an integral part of a larger recreational forest and nature area under the Danish Nature Agency, where there is a need to maintain free public access to the land. The Danish Nature Agency's land management is focused on ensuring open air for the Danes and nature conservation of our land. To this end, the Finance Act requires substantial co-financing in the form of income from land use. Earnings from any sale of land, etc. must therefore be kept up against a lasting loss of income which will be lacking in relation to the financing of some of the other activities of the Danish Nature Agency in the field of nature and open air. The Government cannot support this proposal to sell the campsites. However, the Government agrees that it is relevant to look at the property and area portfolio in the Danish Nature Agency on an ongoing basis in order to assess whether it supports the task acquisition in relation to the core tasks of the Danish Agency regarding nature conservation, biodiversity and open-air life. For the past 10 years, the Danish Nature Agency has sold a number of land and buildings to which there are to a lesser extent related natural, environmental and welfare interests, including buildings that have been made redundant in connection with the operation of the Danish Board's land, as well as agricultural land.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204945	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519204949	Thank you, and thank you, Minister, for your statement. I would just like to ask the Minister if there has never been a derogation from the rules on peace forest and beach protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205009	It's possible there has it. I am afraid I do not have the courage to answer that on a stand-by basis, but we would, of course, like to send that answer to Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205018	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205020	Does the Minister think that it would be completely impossible to obtain a derogation from the rules on peace forest and beach protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205032-2	Thank you for the question. As I am told, current legislation does not allow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205040	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205051	In the Social Democratic Party we acknowledge the fundamental premise of the Liberal Alliance that it is not the primary task of the state to own campsites, but we still think that consideration of our natural values precedes this more ideological view of how the state should be organized. As the Minister also said, there are 16 state campsites being operated on market terms, which are being offered in the way that is now being offered in the public sector. It is carried out under market conditions and any sales would be made under market conditions. This does not create a distortion of the social democracy in relation to the private campsite owners in the same areas. For us, this is not really a very important matter of principle. On the other hand, it is a practical measure to ensure that we, the state, have the opportunity to secure in the best possible way the natural areas on which the state campsites are located. At the same time, people are given the opportunity to use the outdoor possibilities and have the special natural experiences that the natural areas in question offer. As long as that is the case, we believe that there is no reasonable reason to sell the campsites. This means, of course, that we are also not opposed in principle to selling the state's campsites, if otherwise it is possible to do so in a way that ensures that sustainability, conservation rules and people's access to the special Danish natural experiences that exist along the coasts and in peace forest are respected. With respect for these considerations, we have already sold state campsites and other land over the past 3-4 decades, when it has been estimated that this could be done without conflicting with beach protection and peace forests. However, it has primarily been based on professional judgement, not on the more purely ideological reasons which seem to be the motivation behind the Liberal Alliance's proposal here. We also naturally acknowledge in the Social Democratic Party that we do not have campsite owners in our group, and certainly not from North Jutland, where most of these state campsites are located, but even without that expertise and first-hand experience, we still believe that we can assess that the practical nature protection takes precedence over a more ideological sale of state property. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205258	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205302	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. And by the way, thank you for your recognition, which we in the Liberal Alliance value very much, especially when it comes from the Social Democratic Party. Does the rapporteur not think that the areas on which the campsites are situated could retain their natural value if the campsites were privately owned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205327	Well, there is a possibility that some of them can to the same extent as those already sold out over the years. If there is a professional assessment in terms of both the natural, i.e. coastal protection lines and the peace forest, but also the population's access to these lands, we think that this is also a key point in the whole conservation debate, that people have the opportunity to come into the Danish nature. We are not in principle opposed to selling off, but it must be based on a more professional assessment than on the fact that you just put the campsites, which are state-owned, for sale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205402	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205404	If the Ministry's investigation, as the Minister promised me just now, says that a derogation can be granted in these situations, could the rapporteur accept that we could sell the campsites in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205423	Yes, we would like to look at things one by one, as has already been done over the last 3-4 decades, when we have started to sell the campsites, but I certainly cannot give any guarantees in advance that we will seal it when the investigation comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205438	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Tilde Bork, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205500	Thank you. Here we are discussing a motion for a resolution in which the proposers propose to sell eight state-owned campsites run by the Danish Nature Agency. After a lot of research to find out which eight campsites are in the motion for a resolution, it was only possible for me to find six large campsites, as the note from the Ministry, which I received late last night, also documented. It could be read here that there are six large campsites and ten smaller campsites on the area of the Danish Nature Agency. These areas, together with their buildings, are all subject to the obligation to preserve the forest, which is why the Forest Act does not allow them to be constructed. The Danish Nature Agency thus owns land and buildings, but offers the rental of the six large campsites on market terms through open public tenders. On the campsites it is not a question of the state as such running the seats; on the other hand, private tenants run it as sole proprietors and I/S companies, which we in the Danish People's Party believe ensures fair competition on the market. I therefore think that this resolution is somewhat incoherent with regard to the information we have received and what is then contained in the resolution. It seems rather like a motion for a resolution which has been tabled a little too quickly, without really finding the quite relevant information before it was put forward in the Danish People's Party, however, we would like to say to the Liberal Alliance that it is a good thing that the possibilities of disposing of state-owned land are regularly looked at. But with these words, I can tell you that the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205637	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205639	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Should I understand the speech that the Danish People's Party would like to sell the campsites in question, if there were no restrictions in the legislation on strengthening in peace forest and within the beach protection line?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205702	If there are no laws that contradict the possibility, we are open to looking at the possibility in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205710	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205712	Could it then be that the Danish People's Party will help to change the laws that might stand in the way of selling the campsites?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205725	If there is a professional assessment that testifies to the fact that it is not going to go beyond our nature, then we are open to looking at the possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205731	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205747	Thank you. As a Leftman and liberal, I also have the view that the state should not, as a starting point, own or operate campsites. I am also pleased that the state does not run campsites either. The campsites are best operated on a private basis. And I am also pleased that years ago we managed to sell from the then state campsites. In concrete terms, there is a small number of campsites left which are owned by the state, but where the operation has been transferred and leased out to private people, who then operate the sites, as has also been shown earlier in the debate here. Thus, the state does not run the campsites. The few current campsites that are left are, as I am told, located something special, among others. in a peace-forested area, and in whole or in part within the beach protection line, where the prohibition of felling in accordance with the rules in force prevents the extraction, etc., which must of course be regarded as a prerequisite for a possible disposal. The fact that the few current campsites have apparently not been sold, as I am told, is partly due to this. the legal and technical obstacles mentioned here. I am glad that the State sold the seats it has been possible to sell before, and the last few seats do not seem to be an easy exercise to create a basis for selling. On this basis, it is not possible to support the proposal as it stands, so it must necessarily become a so-called technical rejection of the proposal at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205930	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205935	Thanks for the speech. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the Left is not in favour of more simple and easier access to similar changes, i.e. an area exchange process within the beach protection line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519205959	As a matter of principle and generally speaking, the Left has also taken the lead in relation to similar shifts. If there are some concrete and specific things, we must have them drilled into the committee's proceedings, but in general we have not got in the way of changes in mates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210014	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210016	Thank you. Could the rapporteur possibly envisage a system whereby the campsites were transferred from state ownership to private ownership by means of change of mate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210029	Let us look at the specific points raised by the questioner in committee and then get a basis for decision based on it. That must be the way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210043	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210105	After all, this proposal is for the state to sell eight campsites around Denmark that the state owns. The proposal does not then contain any evidence of where these campsites may be located or any assessment of the economic or natural consequences that the proposal will have. However, we have just received a note from the Ministry today which sheds light on the matter, so at least we have a feeling of which campsites are involved. From Enhedslisten's side we can see nothing wrong in that the Danish Nature Agency owns a few campsites that are mainly located in areas with peace forest and beach protection. The campsites are owned by the Danish Nature Agency, but they are leased out and run by private people, and this is on market terms and through public tenders. This is clear from the note which has been sent to us today and which other rapporteurs have also mentioned. The Danish Nature Agency then offers the rental of these larger campsites at market conditions, so I find it very difficult to see how there may be distortions of competition, as the comments on the proposal show. As far as I am aware, any surplus from the lease goes to the protection of the areas in terms of nature. It can be said that it was not certain that we would have the same nature protection, in other words that it would be maintained at the same level if the campsites were in private hands. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210250	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210254	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. Should I understand that the rapporteur does not recognise that the natural value of the campsites in question could be preserved if the campsites were in private hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210310	It would, of course, depend on the concrete set-up of the rules that would apply if we had to opt to privatise these lands, as the Liberal Alliance proposes. So, in principle, it would be possible to imagine it, but that would depend on specific legislation. What is left here is that the Liberal Alliance wants to privatise something that I see no justification and no sense whatsoever in privatising. If I may also comment on some of the comments on the proposal, and the comments consist of eight lines, then I would say to what is stated in line two, that the state should not do business in competition with Danish companies, that there is therefore no question of business being carried on here. It is a question of having land which is leased away. There are also Danish companies and, without being a judge of the Liberal Alliance's party programme, I think that it is not necessarily Danish companies that are meant by it, but companies as such. Yeah, I won't make it any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210414	No. Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210416	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur does not believe that it is sensible for private owners of campsites. Could the rapporteur then explain to me the reason why the state should own campsites?
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210431	Well, I would like to address the proposal that we have here today, which is, of course, about the fact that there are some land which the State leases out on market conditions in an open public tender and which cannot therefore distort competition. And when it says in the comments that you do not want the state to interfere in an inappropriate way in the market, I find it difficult to see how this happens with the model of the lease of land. With regard to the comment that when the state goes into business on the market, it creates unfair competition, I do not see what consistency it has with this proposal either. It seems a little like the Liberal Alliance wants to privatise a whole lot of things, and you've thrown yourself over this area, but there's just not so many good reasons for doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210519	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210524	As to whether the state or private owners of campsites, I should not be able to say what is best. In the alternative, we think that the state can be a fine manager of such land that is close to nature, just as private people can be. In this case, we have a motion for a resolution calling on the Liberal Alliance to remove the State's ownership of the last six campsites. From the point of view of the alternative, we cannot see the purpose of this, because we already have private leases in these campsites and no real reason to make the shift proposed by the Liberal Alliance. Many of them lie in peace forest, they must not be produced. We think that it is actually a good, gentle framework for citizens' access to nature to live on this type of campsite. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210644	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210650	When I immediately saw this proposal for the sale of eight campsites, I was almost immediately aware that I would not be in favour of it. It is not, in fact, because I object to the state selling campsites or selling land for private purposes. Here is the argument behind the Liberal Alliance's proposal so that the state competes on unequal terms with other campsites, and it is therefore not correct because it is private tenants who have it on terms of sale, so that is the very operation of the campsites in private hands and as such does not distort competition, because the state does not immediately interfere in their operation. As I have said, I can accept the immediate sale of state land. It has nothing to do with this, but I have to admit that when I got the note and found out which campsites we're dealing with, the six large campsites, Svinklov, Tranum, Rødhus Klit, Bunken Strand, Børsmose and Vejers, and then their location and the natural pearls they make up, I must honestly admit that I am confident that it is the state that owns the natural pearls and continues to have the last possession of them. I am sure that the state will be able to secure the broad approach to those areas to a far greater extent than private ones on competitive terms, and there is a campsite for a very good purpose in a broad approach to enjoying that nature. So we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210828	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519210845	After all, it is every party's right to table resolutions on anything, and it is probably also a little about the glasses you wear and about how important or relevant you think it is, so of course the Liberal Alliance should also be allowed to put it forward here. I can see, even on the wording of the comments on the resolution, that it is of course driven by ideology that the state should not own campsites, even if they are leased out. I don't want to ridicule that. I sometimes think there's too little ideology in this Parliament. I just think this is a little too small, and I don't understand why you want to go into it. There are so few campsites which are leased out and which are within the beach protection line or at peace forest, on an island like Livø, which is a state-owned island with some tenants who both drive the land and the campsite. I can easily see it through the spectacles of the Liberal Alliance, because I myself sometimes think that we can have some more fundamental discussions about what the state should own or do, etc. I actually think that's quite fine. I just think this doesn't really make any sense, and especially not because it's some natural pearls, because it's not in competition with private people it's rented out so I just think this resolution doesn't make any sense. I cannot even get upset about it, so I look forward to the next time there will be a real ideological resolution from the Liberal Alliance, which I can get really excited about so that we can have a good ideological fight. I think that's a little missing in here, too. However, the SF does not support, and I would like to say that in some areas in particular, the rapporteur for the proposers and I share some of these views. I think, for example. Nor has it been the responsibility of the State to operate commercial forest management, as we have discussed it. So there are clearly areas where I don't think it makes sense the state has those tasks, but here I don't see why they should be sold out. There is also an overview in the memo we have received about the campsites that have been sold out over the years, and it is to be expected that this is because it does not make sense for the state to own those campsites anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211135	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211142	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for recognising the partiality between the views of the Liberal Alliance and the Socialist People's Party. It is not certain that the subset is very large, but it is there, and I think it is absolutely right that we should highlight it when it happens. I am not crazy about fighting, so I hope the rapporteur does not mind if I stay away from it. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur and the Socialist People's Party do not recognise that nature on these lands could actually retain its value even if they were in private ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211222	I have to admit that this is not how I read the note that has been sent to us, so I would rather not reply to that. Because I'm reading this note as if there are some very good reasons why it's precisely these places with these natural areas and this peacemaking obligation that you've chosen to keep, and that's very few seats. It also says at the end of the note that, where natural, environmental and welfare interests are to a lesser extent linked, a number of land and properties have been sold over the last 10 years. And then there's that list of campsites. So I actually think that there has been a relatively pragmatic view in the way that if it didn't make sense, the Nature Agency shouldn't have those campsites.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211323	Sir. Carsten Bach is dropping off. Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I do not see a rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, we shall pass on the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211345	Thank you. First of all, I should like to welcome the Conservatives, whom I have unfortunately had to say could not be here today, and to say that they are actually in favour of motion for a resolution B 110, which we are in the process of discussing. And I would also like to thank you very much for the debate that has so far taken place in the Danish Parliament and thank you for the rapporteur's speeches. With the adoption of B 110, the Danish Parliament will require the government to place campsites owned by the state for sale before the end of the year, because the Danish Nature Agency is responsible for a number of campsites around the Danish country today. We in the Liberal Alliance are of the opinion in principle that the state should not operate. One thing is that the state is rarely quite good at operating profitablely, another thing is that it should not do it at all in an otherwise free market. The fact is that the Danish Nature Agency's campsites compete directly with all other ordinary private-run campsites, and it is therefore purely for reasons of principle that we believe that this is not the task of the state, nor do we want the state to interfere in an inappropriate way elsewhere in the free market. In other words, there are unequal market conditions when the Danish Nature Agency operates with the state in the back. In addition, we are already dealing with a tourism industry which has problems with competitiveness. As you know, Denmark has some of the world's highest energy and excise duties, high wages and a high VAT rate, and together they represent a burden that does not exactly create the framework conditions that the tourism industry needs today. In addition, private-run campsites must also be included in a daily battle against a law which, through the beach protection line and the coastal proximity zone, makes the task of private operators more difficult. But fortunately, at least for the Danish Nature Agency, it has been possible to maneuver oneself out of the problem, which means that today the Danish Nature Agency's campsites are typically located on the most lucrative areas close to the water, which are otherwise almost untouchable to the private. I therefore think it would be common sense for the Minister of the Environment to set out to sell these campsites. This is only fair for the many private operators, and it will even strengthen the tourism industry in the outermost regions of Denmark. In some way or other, the minister stated in his speech that it is not really the Minister's wish to own campsites, but that a sale is unfortunately or perhaps convenient, depending on where it is considered impossible to do so. And why is that not possible? According to the Minister because the campsites are subject to a peace forest obligation and also located within the beach protection line, from which no stretches may be made. On a stand I have to admit that I do not know the rules for peace forest well enough, but it would still surprise me if there could not at least be an exemption from the rules for strengthening and selling out. In fact, I am aware that derogations are being granted on an ongoing basis, for example. change of circumstances, etc. It is, however, subject to extreme bureaucracy and a very long and laborious state administration, but it is possible to do so. On the other hand, I know quite well and enough to know that it maintains a very large number of existing home owners in a iron grip and a straitjacket that makes it impossible for them to carry out just ordinary maintenance and small improvements on their property. And that is why I also declare myself quite prepared to change the rules on the beach protection line so that the Minister can get out of the very inconvenient situation of the Minister, that is that the state still owns campsites around the country to this day. And I guess that's why we're here, too, sir. Minister to change inappropriate and outdated laws and conditions. Or are we really here just to maintain the status quo? I am tempted to say that it is completely out in the woods, or perhaps even out in the beach protection line, and I hope that we can have some sensible discussions on the relationship in the committee's work afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211855	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160519211909	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 20 May 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
