ParlaMint-DK_20161202100011	The meeting is open, but I may have to postpone it. Is there going to be a minister now? Yeah. Then I start by saying that today there are the following reviews: Henrik Sass Larsen (S), Søren Gade (V), Leif Mikkelsen (LA), Josephine Fock (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV), Jacob Mark (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Question No. F 13 (Will the Minister explain what it takes to introduce a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities, including whether the government will introduce access to complaints about discrimination on grounds of disability being dealt with by the Equal Opportunities Board?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161202100105	The debate is open and it is first Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202100120	Thank you. I think one of the most fundamental characteristics of Denmark in all the debate we have about Danishism is that we are a country of association where people are involved. And it is young and old who are members of associations, and many are also volunteers in a number of associations. I think that many times, when we tell all sorts of things about Denmark externally, this is one of the things we do not talk about very much. And it is actually incredibly few times that you have the opportunity here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament to say anything at all about voluntary Denmark. I think that somehow is a pity. I think most of us in the Folketing have started as volunteers. In fact, I do not think I know very many members of parliament who have not just started as a volunteer in some form of organisation, and that may have been the party organisation. As far as I am concerned, it has been the student movement, and I think that is how most people in the Folketing can tell about the many different associations that have started to be active in. Before the student movement it was then at the swimming club etc. That's how we all have a list of associations we've come through our lives. So I think we should also use this opportunity to say a huge thank you to the many people who every day, without getting a red shrimp, make sure that the kids can go to football and make sure that they sit there when the old people are about to leave, as waking wives and as other things. We spend a great deal of effort in our society on that part, and I actually think it is one of the things that builds up the trust that is so characteristic of Danish society. We have extreme confidence in each other in comparison with many other societies, and I do not think that can be underestimated at all. So this volunteer work that people do everyday, and being a member of an association, I think maybe it's one of the most fundamental things about having as good and solid a society as what we have. Well, you could play for a very long time on those big violins and I can get a little fluffy, just when we're talking about the association life, but this bill is all about making the framework for volunteer Denmark better. One might say that, as it is today, it is already the case that you can be covered by an occupational injury insurance scheme if it is voluntary unpaid work, but you cannot be covered by insurance if it is a so-called voluntary effort. And that is among other things. The waking wives, we're talking about, they're visiting friends and the like... they're not covered by insurance. And the municipalities and regions do not actually have the opportunity to take out liability and accident insurance for those citizens. Of course, that's not gonna work. And considering how much is being talked about framework conditions for business, we could discuss whether we should talk a little more often about the framework conditions for voluntary action. So we do today. We are very pleased that the legal framework is being created to provide accident and liability insurance for those who make voluntary efforts. Somehow it was just missing. It is like one part of the bill, and we fully support it in the Social Democrats. The second part of the bill is then about simplifying the collection and follow-up of knowledge of voluntary action in the municipalities. That's what's called the 18th statement. It must be abolished, and instead it must be followed through the local authorities' accounting of subsidies for voluntary social work, and this is already happening today. The aim of this is to eliminate duplication of effort. Now there is a lot of talk in here about debureaucratising, isn't there? This is actually a debureaucratisation proposal. Then, of course, it happens that in the second you try to debureaucratize, some people start to problematize it and ask what we do then if that knowledge is no longer available. It is always the balance that the more we record and the more we collect knowledge, the easier it is, of course, to sit and pull the strings, including from in here, and that is why we will build on and build on. So let's see. I think that the Ministry has responded well to the criticisms that have been made of this, and then we have to follow it and see if we do not survive without having to have the duplication of work that exists today. If we don't survive, we'll have to reinstate it. But let's see if this doesn't work very well. All in all, then, the Social Democrats can support the proposal with a great resounding hurrah and thanks for the efforts of all the voluntary forces out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202100542	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202100548	Thank you for that, President. This bill has two elements. One element is that the municipalities are now being given the opportunity to take out accident insurance for citizens who make voluntary efforts, and I know that many municipalities have asked for this. And so you equate citizens who do voluntary work. In the consultation answers, there is a desire that it should be a shell task and not just a task for the municipalities. We would have liked to see that in the Danish People's Party too. But the fact that local authorities and regions are now allowed to offer insurance is a step in the right direction. And I am also quite sure that the municipalities will welcome that opportunity, given that a great many volunteers are doing a huge amount of work in the municipalities. The second part of the bill is about debureaucratisation, so that the municipalities no longer have to report information about voluntary work every year, according to what is termed Article 18 funds. In the hearings there have also been concerns that this information may be lost. However, this information, which is obtained in the municipalities, is found in the municipal accounts and is found in the voluntary reports via the central social work. So there is still a possibility of obtaining information. In the Danish People's Party, it is important to remove the unnecessary work, which requires cold hands, and instead to use resources on warm hands. In view of the large amount of voluntary work that is of benefit not least to the citizens but also to the municipalities themselves, I am sure that in the municipalities it will be possible both to take out these insurances and to provide this extra information if needed. Overall, with this bill, it's going to be very good that we can now provide the volunteers with this kind of security by giving us the opportunity to take out this insurance in the future. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202100759	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202100807	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I should like to welcome the Conservative Group and say that they support the proposal. I believe that the whole parliament has some understanding that, in view of the recent formation of the government, it may be somewhat difficult for them to be present in the discussion of all legislative proposals. As it appears, this is a question of allowing municipalities and regions to insure voluntary action and thus equalising the opportunity they currently have to insure voluntary work. It is absolutely essential for voluntary Denmark to keep up with developments by ensuring as legislators that the framework for voluntary action can continue. This is important because the Danish society, as we know, is created by voluntary efforts. And the value of that effort can be measured not only in crowns and ears; it must also be seen in relation to all the studies that show that volunteers are in networks that create better quality of life and better health, but also in relation to the fact that the work that comes out of the voluntary effort is for the benefit of citizens. I believe that in the future, we need to think even more of volunteering into the welfare society, not as part of a debate that we have to dismantle the obligations of the welfare society as something publicly delivered. However, we need to see the value of voluntary help being different from the public, centrally determined service provided. Then there is also in the bill that there is an end to the reporting under § 18 (1). 4 because it is a double report. It is a follow-up to the economic agreement. We must avoid double reporting, but be sensitive to what is contained in the comments, since the content of the report is useful in meeting what we want. We must follow this closely, but I think that the comments on the legislative proposal give us that security. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101048	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101059	The Enhedslisten is positive about the part of the proposal that the municipalities should have the opportunity to take out liability and accident insurance for people who make a voluntary effort for the municipality. I cannot help but give it a few words on the way, because in principle we in the Enhedslisten are not in favour of the municipalities hiring the volunteers themselves. Co-operation between municipalities and volunteers should take place through voluntary organisations of their own, and so, if we continue to do so, we would also be beyond the problem of insurance, because those organisations already have the opportunity to insure their members' efforts. Unfortunately, developments are moving in a different direction, especially in the municipalities, because they are increasingly using volunteers to fill where there are gaps after very severe cuts, as has happened in the welfare field over the past many years. Some 31 000 public posts have disappeared, and certainly not all of them are within the stronghold of bureaucracy; on the contrary, the vast majority of them are in the welfare sector. What is happening now is that the municipalities are trying to patch up the damage by hiring volunteers. Very many municipalities have announced, also rather aggressively, after volunteers, direct voluntary jobs are setting up work which should clearly be carried out by professionals, for example. an IT supervisor at the local library or to an elderly data room or tour companion for adults with disabilities. There are a lot of volunteer jobs in schools, kindergartens and nursing homes, and then the municipalities hire a volunteer coordinator to manage and distribute the work. It is an entire industry that is developing here, trying to patch up some gaps after the many cuts that have been in welfare, by putting in volunteers, and then covering it under a plus word and calling it co-creation or association life or association Denmark, whereas in reality it is, not Association Denmark, but attempts to patch the gaps after many years of violent cuts. This is a wrong development and it cannot fail to have consequences for quality and security of supply. This will probably also have a very negative impact on volunteering and what we see it as. It is very important that voluntary action and civil society should not be localised and dragged into the public sector, because they can do something very special that the authorities cannot do, including integrating and participating at quite different levels. I agree with all those who say that society is a completely central part of our culture in Denmark, and it helps us to take responsibility for each other, that we meet each other, and that we must cultivate and support the community life, but authorities such as municipalities must not take over the community life, and that is one of the things that makes us extremely sad. There is no doubt that we need to ensure that the volunteers do not get into trouble, and that is why we are, as a starting point, positive about the part of the proposal which is about the municipalities being able to assure them as well, but it is on an unfortunate backdrop, and we do not like the reason behind the draft law very much. Then there is the whole discussion, which is the second part about the § 18 statement. We disagree with that. We think it is a bad idea to remove the obligation to make the annual statement. It is possible that many people find it a little difficult, especially in the municipalities and among the employees of voluntary consultants, but they are not made for their sake; they make statements to the Folketing and the wider public, especially the voluntary organisations. There are also many critical consultation responses to this bill that points to it. So we would like to ask some questions and follow up on it, and then we will have to take a position when we get that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101531	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101535	Thank you. I am a little surprised that Mrs Pernille Skipper is saying that it is on a sad background and there I am making the connection to the view that the starting point for this was that now you were expanding the volunteer, solely with a view to filling out a hole. This is not how I see the intention of the bill. That is to say: today some are doing voluntary work and some are doing voluntary work. The last part, the voluntary effort, is not possible to insure. That's what we're gonna do. Then you can have some discussions about the use of volunteers, in relation to a fear that they are going in instead of what is today called nuclear welfare. I agree a long way along the way. However, the municipal approach to having volunteers out could also be that some of those who are today socially at risk have the opportunity to feel something valuable by giving them a few hours where they make a voluntary effort and thus come into a community. You can also have that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101642	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101644	I should like to begin by expressing my regret if I have made it sound as if I have a problem of volunteering, especially in relation to fellow citizens who have a whole lot to contribute and a whole lot of forces, but who may not fit into the current labour market. Well, it's really, really important then. But I think it is important to do this through the organisations, because what happens is not just that there are a few hours a week for people who are socially at risk and who help in the local nursing home. What is happening is simply looking up jobs that should be handled by employees. As I said, we think the proposal is good in the sense that it is important for the volunteers, but what the government should be doing was to support more strongly the organisation of volunteering and the volunteers used by the municipalities through the voluntary organisations. Then you'd be beyond the insurance problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101744	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101746	It was the opinion that the bill supports you in terms of insurance, but that you think it is against a bad background. No, it is on a good basis, because the desire is precisely to assure those who make a voluntary effort. The rapporteur then made a few comments on the concern about the abolition of the Article 18 statement, and I hope that in the further preparatory work we can be sure that it is double registration that we will avoid, and not the removal of a tool for the dissemination of voluntary action.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101818	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101820	I also hope that we will be convinced as far as that is concerned, of course, it would be nice. But I have to say again that we are a little sceptical. Well, I would like to read from the remarks where it says that insurance matters must not be a barrier to recruiting volunteers. So it is, after all, a question of ensuring that the municipalities can recruit more of their own volunteers into the municipalities, and it is in all silence my critical remark that it should not be the municipalities that recruited the volunteers. It is neither good for the community nor for our welfare state.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101857	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101900	Thank you. It's just that I got a little confused about the rapporteur's speech. We are probably the ones who agree far along the way when it comes to warm hands and cold hands. The rapporteur mentioned the stronghold of bureaucracy and that it is not there that all of the more than 31 000 jobs there have been taken away. Then the rapporteur concludes by saying that it is not so good that the draft law also contains that it is not possible to establish what Article 18 funds have been used for. From what I am so familiar with municipal work, it is a double bookkeeping because it can easily be found. And does the rapporteur not think that the municipalities would like to have that dialogue with the volunteers, since they now benefit so much from them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202101951	As I said, and I told Mr. Carl Holst, we would very much like to be convinced, but there are some critical remarks from among others. voluntary organisations which create a degree of insecurity that you actually get the information that is, of course, a basis for an important discussion. But I think it is absolutely right that we should debureaucratize. I think it is a huge problem that the former Minister for Social Affairs, at least, had and I wonder if the new Minister also has the task as his large-scale project to create more evidence with the following documentation requirements. So there is good reason to take that discussion, and we can of course be convinced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102033	There are no further comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102041	Thank you very much. The proposal will ensure that municipalities and regions can take out insurance for citizens who provide voluntary action to solve municipal and regional tasks. This must be done under the same conditions as for those who do voluntary work where it is already possible for municipalities and regions to take out insurance. It is only sensible for municipalities to have the possibility of having liability and accident insurance for voluntary helpers, whether this is a so-called voluntary effort or voluntary work. In addition, the obligation for municipalities to report various information about voluntary action in the municipality will also be abolished, so that among other things. avoids double reporting of data. And since debureaucratisation and the elimination of unnecessary double reporting are indeed something that we very much welcome in the Liberal Alliance, we of course also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102125	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102134	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also incredibly grateful to all the volunteers who are doing a huge job in Denmark. So we think it is an excellent idea that municipalities and regions should have the opportunity to take out accident and liability insurance for the citizens who are providing this voluntary effort out there. As Danish Refugee Aid, the Elders Case and the Red Cross believe, however, it should be compulsory to take out such insurance, but we must continue to discuss this during the committee work. The problem is that once again the draft law consists of two parts which have nothing to do with each other, so that the fate of one legislative proposal can be determined by which other legislative proposal it is then tied up. In this case, the second legislative proposal is to avoid double reporting of data on the development of financial support for voluntary social work, a so-called reorganisation of existing data sources in line with agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2017. In our view, the result will be a little debureaucratisation and a saving of a few hundred thousand kroner. However, as far as I understand it, the consequence is that the central account of municipal work with voluntary organizations will lapse. It's this 30-page publication in which you, among other things, find yourself... can read about the support for volunteering and how it distributes around Denmark, as well as which target groups it goes to. If it is true that it also disappears, I will become a little more sceptical, because I think that, as we have such an enormous amount of volunteering in Denmark, it is very important to be able to keep track of how it develops, which target groups it is going to, and how the money is distributed by the municipalities across the country. The voluntary organizations, in their response to the consultation, are not happy about possibly losing this publication either. However, the Centre for Voluntary Social Work writes about the possibility that the most important parts of the report can be included in the voluntary report they already prepare for the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. I think we should look into this possibility in the committee's work. But in the alternative, we also think that we might have to look at the possibility of dividing this bill into two parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102350	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102359	Thank you. As some of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, we have a strong voluntary culture in Denmark. That is the real reason why we have what I would call a strong civil society. It is not something that has been invented right now, because it has been happening for more than a hundred years. A great many of the institutions we have today which we consider to be absolutely indispensable institutions, for example. a public library, actually started by volunteer citizens sometime in the 1800s. It is just an example of some of the things for which we are very well known and for which the assembly houses are also a good example. I actually thought that the assembly houses were a Nordic matter, but it is not, it is a Danish matter, it is in Denmark that are assembly houses, and there is hardly a city where there is no assembly house. Now they are not all open anymore, or they may not all exist, but they have been the framework for strong civil society locally. We in the Radical Left are very open to the development of voluntary work, voluntary work through the ages, because there are new needs, there are new issues which are in fact best solved for citizens in relation to an employee who needs the employee. I would like to stress here that it is absolutely fundamental when we talk about voluntary work that it is the volunteer himself who decides where the limit is for what he wants. One cannot be dictated to anything, one cannot be recruited for anything, and no one can be created for one to have the pleasure of being a member of the Helle Thorning-Schmidt-regeringen-Schmidt government's voluntary committee. We had to make a voluntary charter, and it was a very exciting task, because of course many of the organisations were involved here. What made things fall into place for the very last time was that we agreed and gave hands on the volunteer to decide for himself where the task is going to be. It's a very good rule of thumb to have with you. Then I would like to use an example of a volunteer that cannot be replaced by an employee, no matter how valuable the employees are: the nursing home was new, and the nursing home manager, who was also new, thought he should make an effort to get citizens to come to the nursing home and get to know the nursing home, because it was part of the community, and then they could also take a trip with the nursing home residents who wanted to get fresh air in a wheelchair. Finn came, and he wanted to drive Hans, and Hans also wanted to be driven by Finn, so they left. There was some time, and the head of the nursing home suddenly discovered that it was a long time since he had seen the two going out together, so he went and knocked on Hans' door and opened it carefully, and there they both sat in and drank Gammel Danish in the morning and played cards. So it was the use of the volunteers that the nursing home dweller most appreciated. It is clear that such a thing cannot be replaced by an employee, because it is a community of two equal citizens who find each other in being able to play cards. Fortunately, it was a sensible nursing home manager who thought it was fine, so he left. This is just an example of how we need to be open to working in many different ways. There is also what could be called a co-creation, and that is what we call in the law a voluntary effort which, in the case of damage, should be able to take place there in case of accident and liability insurance. Of course, we fully support this on the part of the Radical Left, and we look forward to putting it in place here, because it should just be lacking that the new type of co-creation does not also allow for voluntary work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102751	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202102800	In SF we look with great sympathy at citizens wanting to get involved in volunteering. It can greatly strengthen citizenship and civil society if we use it correctly and therefore do not succumb to the temptation to allow citizens to carry out municipal tasks free of charge. In my own municipality, for example, people are very pleased that citizens are involved in planning laws and local plans, and I am happy when citizens feel supported by neighborhood aid and such things. That is why we also support the Government's idea of organizing local authority powers, so that municipalities and regions have the opportunity to take out insurance for citizens who make voluntary efforts. But I will not fail to note that this is really a paradox, because in the next part of the proposal we shall be talking about debureaucratisation. In fact, to the extent that the municipalities avail themselves of the cooperation with the voluntary associations, as Enhedslisten also mentioned, this would mean that the municipalities did not have to take out any insurance at all, for then the associations have already done so. We are critical of the overall proposal, precisely because the proposal will also abolish the municipal obligation to make section 18 statements. In the SF we support all good proposals for debureaucratisation and simplification of rules, but precisely here we believe that it makes sense and that this is not a sensible simplification of rules. There are still very large differences in how much municipalities spend on voluntary social work. According to the latest inventory from 2014, Kolding Kommune was used for example 248 per cent. of the subsidy, and there, of course, we also have a SF as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. But there are still 21 municipalities that spend less than 50 per cent. of the block grant for voluntary social work. We would therefore like to propose that the government divides proposals into two so that we can adopt the proposal for insurance for volunteers in the municipalities. They deserve that. But if that is not possible, we will consider voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103028	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs and congratulations to the new Minister. Here you go with the assignment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103041	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs today. When you get into such a discussion, you can really feel how much Voluntary Denmark means, and I really think that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil said it really, really well, namely that this thing about having voluntary Denmark is very, very Danish with all the importance of voluntary associations. I can also say something now to Mrs Pernille Skip. She said that there may not have been so much focus on volunteering, and she also said that she was hoping for more focus on evidence, but I would certainly like to take the lead in that, for example. This one with more focus on evidence. What is it that works so as to spread the good experiences of volunteering. And there is also what Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left says, namely that civil society needs to be given a little more impetus. Civil society can really, really much more and can offer in with something quite different than you can in the municipal system. Then I would like to say something about this with duplication and registration. Some of the rapporteurs also mention this: are we going to lose something by not having this annual publication? I think it is important not to register for the sake of registration, but to ensure that the data that are important are also used. Now we have to see which questions come into the committee's proceedings and, of course, I will try to answer as well as I can at all. But I just want to say that it is important that it is meaningful data that is being used. Because as soon as you start to put municipalities to record meaningless data, it is that we are going to see that it is of course becoming more difficult to take seriously, and then no one wants to register properly. And then the data we get will be worth less. Then I will give just one example of what volunteering can do. I have at some point been out riding with the Food Bank, which is a social economic company, and there you go out with surplus products. I was also lucky enough to get an accession gift, where I am among others. Got cornflakes in Hebrew it seemed to me really great and some other products that can't be sold, but then can be handed out. What is around the food bank is that a number of their drivers are volunteers. These are men, for example, some of them are a little up in their years, they're retired, and that means these men are coming out. They get both a network and they stay up to date on the world. It is voluntary work, which typically so appeals well to a man, i.e. to drive around and be a driver. So there you have really managed to create a really good opportunity for them to have a network, and at the same time they can make a huge, huge difference. So this is the first draft law on volunteering. I hope there will be many. I hope that the parties of the Folketing will also want to enter into further dialogue on volunteering, because it can be moved so much more. And, of course, I will conclude by saying that I am available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103346	Thank you. There is one comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103352	Thank you. I believe that the Minister may have heard wrong, because I did not call for further evidence to be poured down on the municipalities. On the contrary, I called for careful consideration to be given to how much bureaucracy is involved, to reconsider the bliss of evidence. I really want to ask you something. The Minister does not mention it at all in his speech, and that was one of the things that we think is important to discuss in connection with voluntary service. We all agree that this is a really, really good idea. We like volunteers. They can do something very special when it is civil society organisations and volunteers who contribute, unlike authorities. But does the Minister not think that it is a problem when volunteers come to replace what is usually ordinary jobs, which is the close welfare work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103453	To take the last thing first: yes, if it's about a direct replacement of jobs. I think that is a major problem. I just think sometimes it can be hard to see it so black and white. Another example I would like to take is from Odense with regard to small-time elderly people. There are elderly people who find it difficult to get the nourishment and the meals they need. Then in Odense, you've made a team of volunteers who go out and eat the food with the elderly. The table is decorated, and a mood is simply created around the meal. It actually makes the older one eat more. Is that replacing a job? No, not really. Does this bring positive results to the elderly? Yes, it does. So I don't think you can see it so black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103545	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103546	Does the Minister really not think that ensuring that our older citizens receive the food they need and that there is the time for them to eat properly and calm down is a central part of what can be called nuclear welfare? In fact, I am a little shocked by the example of being a voluntary effort. This is precisely an example of the fact that there is not enough time in the care of the elderly for what should be a right for older citizens who have worked a long life, namely that they also receive proper treatment. And then you've replaced it with a volunteer corps. And all respect for those who do, but shouldn't we be delivering as welfare societies?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103632	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103633	For me, it is not a question of replacing, because of course there must be time and space for staff to come in and help. This is an extra thing, and that's why you have to be careful about doing volunteer work in black or wide; that either you take jobs or you don't take jobs. When I take the example, it is actually to show the nuances that are. I believe that people as staff can prepare the meal and that the elderly can also be invited into the meal in a positive way. The fact that you have this extra, where you can get the elderly to eat more and simply get some more quality of life, I consider alone to be positive. I also know that the elderly do, and so do the volunteers and, incidentally, the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103719	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, so the debate is closed and the Minister can go down. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103737	The debate is open. It's sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202103751	Thank you, Madam President. It is actually thanks to the party SF that we have this bill on the agenda. I think we should start by recognising that. It was the SF which, at the beginning of the year, presented a motion for a resolution addressing the problem that, from in here, we increasingly require citizens to identify themselves when they have to meet authorities when they have to have a travel card when they go to Bornholm when buying a mobile phone. You have to identify all kinds of places. The point is that the ID options we have are a driving licence or a passport. A driving licence is an expensive pleasure for good reasons, and not everyone needs a driving licence, as well as not everyone can get a driving licence. This applies, for example, if you are visually impaired, blind, then you cannot get a driving licence. Then there is the question of passports. We know that it can be an expensive pleasure to have a passport, which at least crosses the 700 kroner. This means that there is a need for an ID card which you can have in your back pocket and which is not so expensive to get. What about all the IDs we really have? We have a lot of ID cards in Denmark. We have, for example. Our health card, that is, the old health card. The problem is, there's no photo on it. When I have read about this matter, it is as if politicians have had the subject on the agenda many times, and each time a new map has come up. Most recently it was the alcohol card, as it is popularly called. I don't think that's what the law really says. Young people between the ages of 16 and 18 have used this to buy alcohol. It's a new map with a picture of what you've invented. The new and clever thing about this bill based on the issue raised by the SF is the introduction of a new card, but also the removal of a card. And that is the alcohol card that the government is proposing to remove and convert into a general ID card. I think that sounds sensible and wise. It is an ID card with a picture and CPR number, which can be in the back pocket, and with which one much cheaper and easier than a passport and of course far, much cheaper and easier than a driving licence can prove its identity when needed. I must therefore say that we can support this proposal, just as we supported the ideas contained in the SF's proposal. I think it has only improved since then because you take an existing card and change it. Then I'll say something to all of us here. Now we have so many cards in Denmark. Wasn't there any sense in seeing how many cards we're going to have at some point? I understand that a Minister for Public Innovation has even been appointed. We need two health insurance cards, we need an ID card here, we need a passport and a driver's license, and we need a digital signature. There are now so many cards, and everyone is probably made in the best sense. Couldn't it be possible to make this a little smarter? I think that the next time we meet on this subject, when there is greater pressure to get an electronic identification card, possibly on different mobile phones and other things, so that you can better identify yourself online when you go there. That means that this debate is not over at all. I fear that next time we will have another card, another thing in our back pocket, so that it will be completely filled with different IDs. I think the Danes are a little puzzled about that. It may be that from a slightly old-fashioned ministerial silo thinker, it might be wise to solve this problem. But from the citizens' point of view, I think it could be a little smarter than having three-four-five-six cards for public authorities if you had just one, which then also had an image, which then also had an address, which then also had a CPR number, and which also had some digital signature built in. That's not what this bill is about. It's just to report that this is our overall policy line in this area. It is a job that we would very much like to take part in. We can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104223	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104230	Thank you for that, President. What we have just heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur sounds very promising, so I think that we can already make an amendment and, to such an extent, obtain a majority in favour of it, because one would think that the rapporteur has been interested in looking at my computer and reading my rapporteur's speech. The Danish People's Party fully agrees with the statement about what we're going to do with all these cards. Now this is a proposal which arises from a motion for a resolution which we also welcomed at the time. But we have also said before that we must get a picture of this health insurance card that everyone has, whether they are partially sighted, disabled or other things and cannot obtain a driving licence. So everyone has a health insurance card. So I think we should look at having a map for everyone, also seen in the light of the fact that more and more places you want to have image ID. This applies both to contact the bank, on travel cards and with other items. It must also be seen in the light of this terrorist situation, which has become increasingly acute over recent years, the money laundering law and everything else that makes it more and more necessary to show identification where there is a picture. In this connection, as a member of the Danish People's Party, I can say that the problem of the lack of a ban on burkas is getting bigger and bigger. I can't help wondering what a picture of a map with a woman using burka should look like. Can you get the woman to take the burka off if she needs to legitimize herself in some places? It's not part of this bill, but it's certainly a problem that comes back every time we have something like that with image ID. But the Danish People's Party also agrees that this map is a step along the way. And then we may have to take it in two stages, but I think we should have a talk about that, also in view of the fact that it has been a great wish of many disability organisations, as I said before. There are people with disabilities who may not be able to obtain a driving licence and have to carry their passports around. However, a plastic card has a better size to suit a wallet or back pocket. So the Danish People's Party also agrees, and we are also happy that the price of this is reasonable so that everyone can join in. So the Danish People's Party also supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104500	Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104503	Thank you for that, President. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they can support this proposal. So can the Left. There is a practical problem for citizens without passports and driving licences. That is what the draft law is about, and we support it. Then there have been right and well-intentioned remarks about whether we should have a comprehensive map in the future. This is an interesting issue, which we need to work on, possibly in addition to the digitalisation strategy that was developed widely and with the municipalities and regions on a regular basis until 2020. That is a different issue. However, anything that can support the digitalisation part must, of course, be willing to look at in a different context with another proposal. So will the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104601	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104615	The Enhedslisten was very pleased when the SF tabled the motion for a resolution. This is something we have heard many times from the citizens, namely that it is difficult in everyday life. We were very happy when the SF got it voted through, and now we are very pleased that it has been put forward. So Enhedslisten votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104639	Thank you. Sir. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104648	In the Liberal Alliance, we think it makes sense to have an identification card with public photos. In many contexts you have to use image ID, and it is not optimal that all Danes who do not have a driving licence should carry their passports around. At the same time, when citizens have to pay the costs themselves, we find it very difficult to see any negative consequences of this. Therefore, I also find it very interesting to have a discussion about whether we should try to link digitisation into this kind of identification, but we will have to do so at a later stage. The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104719	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104723	Thank you. In the alternative, we find it gratifying to have a new identification card which allows us to identify ourselves in a wide range of situations without having to bring your passport. This means, for example, that people who, because of their special needs, do not have a driving licence can benefit more easily from taking a loan from the bank or buying a mobile phone. We are pleased that SF has seen the need for a new identification card and found a majority for it in the Folketing. We are also pleased with the few times the opposition has succeeded in obtaining a majority for a proposal for adoption in the Folketing in these years with a government which uses its majority on a mandate to pursue a policy that, to our liking, is incredibly one-sided bourgeois-liberal. But more about it another time, because today we are delighted to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104812	Thank you. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104820	As our rapporteur, Andreas Steenberg, cannot be here, I say a few words about the proposal and start by commending the Minister, because here there is a fine response to a wish that a majority in the Folketing has had. You make an ID card as an alternative to driving licences and passports. In the Radical Left, we are pleased that the government is taking the initiative and we think it is good parliamentary practice to find solutions together. This is the kind of thing that can please an old supporter of the people's rule. There are people who, because of age or disability, do not have a driving licence. When you have to show an id with a picture, for example when you travel to and from Bornholm or Sweden, where there are unfortunately border controls, they must have passports with them. It is quite expensive to get a passport, especially to go to Bornholm. It is a bit far-fetched that you have to show passports to travel to another part of Denmark. With the law here, older people, young people and people with disabilities get the opportunity to acquire an ID card for cheaper money that they can use when showing image ID. We are very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104926	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202104932	It's a good day today. Of course, in the SF, we welcome this bill very much. As several rapporteurs have said, it is on the basis of the motion for a resolution that we tabled last year in the SF to the Danish Parliament that we are now going to deal first with this bill, which is about adapting an existing ID card. I am pleased that our proposal is now an opportunity for the government and the parliamentary parties to back up the need to find a solution so that it will be just a little easier for citizens with disabilities, homeless people, the elderly and other fellow citizens to be able to legitimise themselves. That is why I would like to thank both the government and the committee for their willingness to do so in relation to the motion for a resolution. We are very pleased with that. As our society has developed, many Danes often find themselves in a situation where they need to be able to legitimise themselves with image ID. The vast majority of citizens solve that problem by showing a valid driver's license or passport. For some citizens, for example. Blind, highly visually impaired and people with epilepsy are not able to do so as they cannot obtain a driving licence because of their disability. That is why Danske Handicaporganisations have been calling for the possibility of obtaining cheap image ID for a long time. As can also be seen from the consultation answers, both Danske Handicaporganisations and Elders welcome the bill. I am pleased about this, and I see this as an expression of the real need for the identification card to be adapted. As I also mentioned when we discussed the resolution in January, we in the SF did not have any specific formal requirements for the new ID card. The proposed solution is an adaptation of an already existing identification card, and it should be used as general documentation for a wider target group and for a wider scope. That seems to us to be a sensible approach. It has also been a goal for us that image identification could be cheaper. In connection with the motion for a resolution, we learned in the SF that many citizens wanted cheaper image identification. It was about homeless people who were required to be ID when they had to vote, withdraw money from the bank or simply have to set up an account so that they could have money transferred. It was about citizens, especially from Bornholm, who, in connection with their work, visits or treatment at the Rigshospitalet, had to pass through Swedish territory where, as a result of the carrier's responsibility, they had to legitimise themselves. That is why, as I read from both legislative proposals and consultation answers, we continue to hope that this new ID card will be significantly cheaper than, for example. passport and driver's license. In addition to the fact that I must of course thank the government and the Danish Parliament for their goodwill, I also owe a special greeting to Jytte, whom I was contacted by, shortly before we discussed the resolution a small year ago. Jytte is in the mid-seventies and she wrote because she was enthusiastic about the proposal. She told me she didn't have a passport or a driver's license and didn't need it either. She had experienced in several situations that it was almost mandatory to have a picture ID, and therefore she had questioned about the possibilities of citizen service, where she had received the message, that then she could get a moped driving licence. And as she wrote back then, I am in the middle of the seventies. For you, Jytte: Something is happening now, and we'll make sure you don't have to get a moped license. Now there will be a proper ID, a Jytte Card. Some might think that such a legislative proposal in the big picture may seem like a very small matter, which is not of great importance, but for the citizens it affects, such as the United Kingdom. Jytte, it is very important that they can actually acquire a card. I think that is important to remember when we are discussing this bill today. Against this background, of course, it cannot be surprising that the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105335	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. Then the Left has spoken on behalf of the Conservatives, and that is why it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Congratulations on your appointment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105347	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the broad support for the proposal that has been made in this Parliament for what the SF rapporteur called the Jyttekort. I think it is a good thing that we can find solutions in broad agreement and agreement, and I will endeavour to involve all parties in the legislative work in my area of ministers as far as possible. I am absolutely convinced that with this proposal and with this ID card we will get a really good solution to what is, in fact, a practical problem for many people who do not have passports or driving licences but come in situations where they have to legitimise themselves. It is especially the Bornholm problem, which has also been mentioned about where Danish citizens should take from part of the Danish Empire to another part. Some people today have to have a passport. I think it's a really good thing that in future they can settle for this ID card and get it at a cheaper price. I also think it's worth noting this question of a card in and a card out. I think that is actually a very good principle, so that it is ensured that the pile does not become even bigger. So that way we get it done in a really nice way too. Then there is a part that mentions that one could go even further: could one imagine using electronic solutions? Could the total number of cards in the public sector be reduced? I would just like to say that this is at least something that I will look at incredibly positively and go ahead with to see if we can simplify even more forward-lookingly. Of course, I cannot promise on a stand-by basis that you can, but I will certainly do my best to ensure that we achieve some of the wishes that came from the rapporteurs. But first of all I would like to thank you for your kind treatment and, of course, especially the SF for being the ones who took the initiative. Let this be a call for initiatives which we can also adopt together if it is possible to do so. I certainly haven't closed any doors to anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105602	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105617	The debate is open. Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105630	Thank you. Today we are discussing a proposal which will abolish the right of the recipient of sickness benefit to earn a holiday allowance. The proposal will weaken the rights of those who have insured against unemployment but who, for one reason or another, have become ill, even if, for example, it does so. is an occupational injury which has caused a person to suffer sickness benefit. This gives the Left and the Danish People's Party another extra blow to the heads of those who have just lost their jobs and have even become ill. In Denmark we need to strengthen and not weaken our flexicurity model. We have an insurance fund in Denmark, which means that, when employers do not need one, they can maintain a reasonable basis of existence, but not as well as what they have when they are in work. Citizens pay for cash insurance and pay for an insurance benefit which gives them some rights, among other things. in the form of sickness benefits. But now the government and the Danish People's Party are weakening with a grab the insurance fund, without the insurance becoming cheaper. We have a cashier's model that supports the Danish model of flexicurity, which we brag about all over the world, namely that it is the social partners, employers and employees who agree the rules of the labour market agreements. This is actually very good, because then we have a flexible labour market that allows employers to react quickly when they need labour and to dismiss employees when they have no more work, and thus they do not incur a loss in the company and are therefore better placed to compete with foreign companies. But with this proposal, the cash-box model, and hence the flexible labour market, are being reduced. When the Minister uses the argument that it is not reasonable for cashiers to earn entitlement to holiday allowance during illness as opposed to those who are not members, the Minister applies the lowest common denominator. The Minister's logic seems to be that if someone is in a bad state, others under similar conditions must also feel bad. The Social Democrats do not believe that this proposal is moving Denmark in the right direction, and that is why the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105933	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105937	Thank you. I should like to ask the rapporteur to what extent the quotas for the cashiers are included as part of the financing of sickness benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202105959	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110000	What I mean is, when you join an A-box, you sign up with some rights. The rights you pay for are now taking the government and the Danish People's Party away from the members without making it cheaper. There are those rights in the same way as when you take out insurance. There you know about what the policy covers, and then when you start taking some of the policy, taken some of the rights, it simply happens that the insurance is deteriorating. This also applies to the flexible labour market, because there may be insured people out there who say: 'Oh, there are not many rights left; now we might as well just go on cash benefits if we become unemployed.' After all, we have the cash insurance, so that we all bear the risk: when we are at work, we pay to it and when we become unemployed, we can get it. I've paid for the a-box my whole life and never used it, but I've been fond of it. It's like fire insurance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110105	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110106	Unfortunately, I did not get an answer because sickness benefits are financed by all of us and not by the cashier's quota. That is, in fact, the crucial difference, and if you are not aware of it, it will be a very long discussion today. But is it not true that unemployment benefits are still considerably higher than cash benefits? So there is still a major advantage in being a member of an unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110142	Thank you. Yes, it is true that it is higher, but you also pay for the insurance. In other words, the difference between being on cash benefits and being on cash benefits and having paid for insurance is, of course, that there should be some higher benefits on cash benefits. And so I also believe that the rights to earn holiday allowances enjoyed by beneficiaries of sickness benefit are now being taken away from them. And no matter where the money is taken, it is the policy holder who is actually missing out on a right that he or she has paid for for for several years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110212	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110216	Thank you. I can hear that we will probably not get an answer to the question that Hans Andersen from the Left put to the rapporteur, namely whether it was part of the payment to the cashier. However, when you consider sickness benefits as a whole, the facts are that you cannot take a holiday while on sickness benefit. You can shoot the holiday and arrange it after you are healthy; you have to be healthy to take a holiday. In view of the criticism that has now been voiced about sickness benefits, it must be said that it was the rapporteur's own party, her own minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who was in charge of cutting sickness benefits from 52 to 22 weeks. There we didn't hear that complaint from Mr. Jan Johansen, because it was all right. in this context. This was a greater deterioration than eliminating the right to a holiday allowance for periods of sickness benefit. We openly acknowledge that the Danish People's Party was also included in that agreement, but that was Mr. Jan Johansen's own party, who was in government at the time and was in charge of it and also the sickness insurance rules. Then, of course, you could have taken this in at the time, you didn't, and it was an even greater deterioration, but it was nice to have a clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110332	I still think that there is a difference between that and what the rapporteur is asking me as a question. But here I mean that when I'm in a box and I pay, and I am today, and I've been there my whole life, I'm gonna have some deteriorations now that you just as quietly and neatly get into the deal. So if I go and get hurt... I'm gonna fall off the platform in a minute... and if I get unemployed, I can't earn a vacation as I've been able to do so far. I think that this is a deterioration and I do not think that the two things can be compared.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110406	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110408	If we look at the sickness benefit rules, the sickness benefit agreement, as Mr. Jan Johansen's party was a part of, of course, we just have to acknowledge in this regard that if it were part of the unemployment insurance system, of the unemployment insurance rules, this law could not have been ignored by the Social Democratic Party, as we have a settlement in the field of unemployment benefits. Cash sickness benefits do not go in as a part of it precisely because they are not financed by self-payment from the workers. Sir, I'm afraid so. Jan Johansen admits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110445	Thank you. Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110447	I just feel like when I went in and joined a union and joined an insurance fund, I looked at what I could get. I did not look at which box it came from, because it is not possible to demand that someone who takes out insurance should go through where the money comes from. You are told that you have those rights, and so it does not really matter where you take the money from. That is also what we say to them if some people start going through something like that. That is why I think it is a deterioration, and it is a deterioration for those Members who have taken out insurance in the cash register.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110527	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110532	What characterises an insurance scheme is that it is they who pay into it that have the opportunity to draw on it. It is, of course, a question of having a sickness benefit system which those who are members of an unemployment insurance fund do not participate in financing. Why is it so reasonable that they should have the right to earn a holiday allowance while on sickness benefit, a benefit which they have not helped to finance with their cash benefits, while others who are on sickness benefit and are not members of an unemployment fund should not have the right to earn a holiday allowance while on sickness benefit. The insurance argument does not stand unless the rapporteur does not know what principles apply when we talk about insurance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110627	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110629	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that we are all pleased that we have the cash in Denmark. We are all pleased that there are a lot of people who insure themselves and pay into the insurance so that those who become unemployed are helping to finance this, and we must stick to that. I just think it's gonna be hollowed out once again. It's like you're undermining the insurance. You did it when you put it down from 4 to 2 years. It was also a deterioration in the insurance system, and there is still no payment to be made. I think we should safeguard the labour market we have, because we are very flexible. When Master doesn't need you, he can fire you, and then you have a basis for existence, and when Master needs you again, he'll take you back in faster. The day when we destroy the flexible labour market, we cannot keep the labour market that we have today and the competitiveness that we are all so happy about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110722	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110724	But this is not about the flexible labour market. This is about whether you should have some rights that you have not been able to finance yourself through your fund contribution. Why is it that when you pay in to an insurance fund, you have to have some rights that your insurance fund contributions have not helped finance, while other people who do not pay in to an insurance fund should not have those rights? That's an obvious injustice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110800	I now think that it has been fair, fair in that when you insure yourself there are some rights with which you are taking some of them from now on. This is being done now, and we in the Social Democratic Party are very much opposed to it, and I think that you are undermining and destroying the good, flexible model we have and the cash-box system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110818	Just remember, we don't use direct charges. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202110828	Thank you, President. This bill is part of the Finance Act. Earning the right to a holiday allowance is changed, and this is done by removing the possibility of earning the right to a holiday allowance while you are ill. You have no right to take a vacation while you are ill. You have to be healthy to take a vacation. It is also the case that if you have been at a workstation and most have, after you have earned holiday money, you can postpone the holiday until you are well again. You can also choose to have them paid while you are ill, without offsetting sickness benefits, but you cannot take a holiday while on sickness benefits. For most people, it's a shorter period you're sick. That's what it is. Sickness benefit is not part of the ordinary daily allowance. It is not something that you finance through your own payment. It is the state that pays 100% of the sickness benefits, or it is in cooperation with the municipality. At least one hundred percent of the public sector is financed. There is some criticism that the Danish People's Party supports this proposal. You can postpone the opportunity to take a vacation until you are well again. However, when the previous rapporteur speaks of a deterioration in the benefit system, I cannot help thinking about where the greatest reduction in sickness benefits lies. Was it when the government, led by the Social Democratic Party and with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Minister for Employment, cut sickness benefits from 52 weeks to 22 weeks, or is the biggest deterioration that you cannot earn holiday money while you are ill? That is all, from perhaps 1 week to 5 weeks, you can earn in one year if you are ill? What is the greatest deterioration? I think most people will say that it was the deterioration led by Social Democracy that was the greatest deterioration, but people have to decide for themselves. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we stand by the fact that we have concluded a sensible financial law agreement which has come through very well, at least from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, and we are actually quite satisfied with that. Then there is this proposal which, of course, some will criticise, but which we support, of course, because we have concluded the financial agreement. As I said, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111121	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111128	So many words, enough theoretical detours to say that no, this was actually meant to finance it through the 'A' funds, and now it really comes from the state treasury. It doesn't change a comma at all in that the end result is that the profile of the Danish People's Party is apparently that you have to hit sick people. The people's starting point when they joined their box was a certain set of rules. The fact is that the profile of the Danish People's Party is: Please let the sick citizens pay the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111159	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111203	Well, you can of course have the attitude in SF as you like, and then of course we in the Danish People's Party can also have the view that when SF sat in government with Social Democracy and Radicals, you cut the period of sickness benefit from 52 weeks to 22 weeks. And what is that? Is it a social profile where you don't want to hit those who are sick? That's it, sir. Karsten Hønge's party did when they were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111223	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111228	Is that the level of the debate? You did something worse once, and it's like what you're doing now isn't bad. What kind of level is that? Sir. Bent Bøgsted, answer: Is it not true that sick citizens are now going to pay a bill because the Danish People's Party had to enter into a financial agreement? You can't get away with that by pointing your finger at the past. The fact is here today that Dansk Folkeparti says go to that sick citizens get the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111247	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111250	I'm not pointing fingers at anyone. I'll stick to the facts. The fact is, sir... Karsten Hønge's party helped to cut sickness benefit from 52 to 22 weeks. The Danish People's Party has helped to remove the right to earn holiday money while you are ill, a holiday that you cannot take while you are ill. You have the opportunity to push earned holiday money until you are well again and then take the holiday. Yes, the Danish People's Party has been involved in this. That is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111317	Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111320	Well, I'm gonna make a correction. It is true that we made a new sickness benefit reform, but it was with the background that we all thought they should get through the system more quickly so that they got a quick clarification. So it is such a bit of a game about words from the rapporteur, because there was some reason for this. It was precisely for them to get through more quickly and get clarification so that they could see how and how they would proceed in life. So I would like to ask the rapporteur once again: does the rapporteur not think that some rights are being taken from some people who have paid a quota, regardless of where the money came from, and does the rapporteur not think that it is the sick who are going to pay this quota, the savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111358	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111401	Now it is the case that you do not pay a quota to have the right to earn a holiday allowance while you are ill. You pay a quota to be entitled to cash benefits, yes. And then the agreement is that you can earn holiday money while you are on the labour market, and it is the employer who pays them while you are ill, and then it goes to the public. That's kind of what's in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111430	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111433	The rapporteur will not reply, but it does not matter. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how does the rapporteur feel about saving the sick and at the same time setting up tax cuts for which some of this money is intended? How does the rapporteur feel about this? Because that is how I see the game: some money needs to be spent in the big box in order to give tax relief at a later stage to those who earn the most in Denmark. So the rapporteur thinks that is okay. That you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111456	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111459	I think that if you look at what has been said several times, you will see that the Danish People's Party has not proposed that this money should be used for tax relief. I think that can be disproved in many places. So if sir... Jan Johansen had followed it a little, also in relation to what has been said by the Danish People's Party and by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's side, he would know that there is no provision here for us to try to find money for some tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111523	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111529	Thank you. Bill No. L 86, which we are dealing with today, concerns the right of sickness benefit recipients to a holiday allowance. Insured members of an unemployment insurance fund currently earn entitlement to a holiday allowance for periods during which they receive sickness benefit if they are not entitled to a holiday allowance with a holiday allowance or a salary for the period, while beneficiaries of sickness benefit who are not members of an unemployment insurance fund are unable to earn entitlement to a holiday allowance for the periods during which they receive sickness benefit. The fact that a member of an unemployment fund has this particular advantage by simply being a member does not seem reasonable to the Left. You can therefore earn the right to a holiday allowance while receiving sickness benefit when sickness benefits are financed by the State alone. We do not think that is fair. We would therefore like to see the rules on the acquisition of entitlement to a holiday allowance for periods in which persons receive sickness benefit abolished, so that the income rules for holiday benefits are harmonised for sickness benefit recipients. And the proposal here equates sickness benefit recipients who are members of an unemployment insurance fund with those who are not members of an unemployment insurance fund. So the draft law here makes up for the unfair difference that currently exists between Members and non-members. The special right to earn a holiday allowance is abolished. As you know, money can only be used once, and if we are to remain a strong welfare society, we must give priority to it. And we dare to do that in the left. We would rather give priority to improvements in our core welfare, for example with the actions now contained in the 2017 Finance Act and the coming years. We give priority, among other things. a further health action of 2.2 billion. kr. over the coming years. It helps to strengthen our core welfare. The Left will support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111742	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111745	I noticed Mr. Hans Andersen's remark that the money can only be used once. The rapporteur is right, but why is it precisely that it is the sick who have to pay for all sorts of other things in government tax credits or what else you can think of bad things? So paragraph 1, the money can only be used once: that is correct, but why do sick citizens have to pay for it? So I would just like to ask Hans Andersen: How does Hans Andersen feel about buying insurance, a policy scheme, and that at the time when you buy it, you also enter into a payment agreement if you then, without notice, or at least with a very short notice, get changed in the policy without the quota being reduced? Would it not be reasonable for the government at the same time to propose that the quota should be reduced, given that the conditions of the insurance scheme which people have signed up to are objectively changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111832	Here you go, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111836	Yes, it is true that the money can only be used once, and in the Left we are concerned about prioritising. And we will give priority to our core welfare. Here there is a proposal that helps to finance the measures we have introduced into the Finance Act, and it is a question of harmonising, in other words, putting people in proportion to the rights that you have when the services you can obtain are financed by taxpayers, in other words all of us. There, we do not think it is right that there should be a particular advantage in joining an unemployment fund and that, when we have to redeem the right, it is all about the fact that we all have to pay together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111915	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111918	Yes, I can also see that it was perhaps just because I let myself get carried away by the fact that I had just had some questions for the Danish People's Party. In other words, the Left has always stood by their anti-social policies, and in this sense there is nothing strange about the fact that, of course, we also stand by the fact that we are going to let the sick citizens pay for tax cuts. So I can hear that the question was actually wrong, because you have always stood in the sand about an antisocial distribution policy. Perhaps that question should have been put to the Danish People's Party, which is trying, on solemn occasions, to stand up as defenders of the little man. But I would like to try again to ask Mr. Hans Andersen: The government changes the insurance policy...
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111955	I recommend that we start with a question, because that is actually what it is for. Is there an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202111958	I could then ask why the rapporteur thinks it is more reasonable that, because you are an unemployment fund member, taxpayers should pay you special benefits, while, if you are not a member of an unemployment fund, you are not entitled to earn holiday allowances when you are on sickness benefit. We are now removing this absurdity. We are harmonising so that there are similar rules for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112028	Thank you. And I have to say that you can of course make a brief comment, but if you have a question, it is probably wise to make it first. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112040	Thank you. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether it is reasonable to pay for insurance and then change the policy without reducing the payment. Now I know that Mr. Hans Andersen will give an explanation that the money comes from two different boxes, but when I pay for a cashier, I am not looking at where the cash benefits come from, and I am not supposed to interfere with that either. When I have some rights, I have those rights. But when you remove them and I have to pay the same and it gets worse, is that fair? If it was the case outside Borgen that an insurance policy was drawn up in an insurance company, then suddenly it was like that, for example. In a fire insurance scheme that you could not replace your dining table and dining table chairs, would that be fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112137	I think it should be borne in mind that sickness benefits are financed by the public authorities alone. It is not reasonable that there are different rules, depending on whether you are a member of an unemployment fund or not a member of an unemployment fund. I think we should stick to that, because the consequence of that, sir. Jan Johansen says that if you had to go out of line, the Socialists would have to propose that the rules that apply today to cashiers should also apply to people who are not members of an unemployment insurance fund when they are on sickness benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112213	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112217	[Sound emission]... the rapporteur constantly says that people must be treated equally. But these people who are in an A-box pay an A-box quota to be in the A-box, so the two groups of people aren't equal. Sir, I'm afraid so. Hans Andersen actually recognizes that they are not equal, because one pays, and the other does not pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112238	Yeah, they pay to be a member of an A-box. And when you pay to be a member of an unemployment fund, you are entitled to benefit in the event of unemployment. The alternative is that you do not pay to cashiers, and then you are not entitled to cash benefits, but then you have another option, for example. the possibility of cash benefits if you are entitled to them. There is a significant difference. There is a significant difference between the level of cash benefits and the level of benefit. That's what your insurance fund membership is mostly going to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112310	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112321	With this bill, cashiers are deprived of their right to earn holiday allowance when they are ill and receive sickness benefit. It is the view of Enhedslisten that this is an unreasonable proposal. It is a pure saving, there is no real reason for it, and again it is the unemployed and the sick who are affected. This deterioration comes on top of a number of other deteriorations that have occurred in the area of sickness benefit. In 2009, sickness benefit for public holidays was abolished and the employment requirement increased, in 2010 the annual adjustment of sickness benefit and other transfer income was reduced and in 2014 the duration of sickness benefit was reduced from 1 year to 22 weeks. So it's not the first time. Like other rapporteurs, we are of the opinion that, when the insurance system is an insurance system, Members who have insured should also be confident that they have certain rights, including the right to earn holiday allowances, both during periods of unemployment benefit and during periods of sickness benefit. That right is now being curtailed. That's about. 15,000 people who get hit by this proposal. This will result in an annual saving of 27 million. kr., and this will particularly affect the long-term ill. It is also called this proposal that several rapporteurs have done from up here for harmonisation, saying that it is about putting two different groups, i.e. those who are members of an unemployment fund and those who are not. Firstly, it must be said that these are not two equal groups: one is a member of an unemployment fund and the other is not. It's as simple as that. In addition, it is me, and I would guess the rest of my party, quite understandable that every time you want to correct imbalances or inequalities or harmonise, or whatever other words you now find for it, it is about doing something worse for some and never doing anything better for some, ensuring greater security, ensuring that more Danes can have a certainty that if they are affected by illness, if they are affected by unemployment, it is something that can happen to all of us in a long life, yes, then they get a real safety net, and then they get caught until they can stand on their own feet again. If anyone is in doubt, Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112603	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112607	Does the rapporteur basically think that there should be a link between the insurance scheme that you pay for and what you can receive from the insurance scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112627	You can have all kinds of arguments for that. That is not the starting point. That is not why the government has tabled the proposal. It's to find $27 million. kr., which you will then spend on some other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112643	Yes, that's why the bill has been tabled. Today it is the case that cashier's contributions give access to some rights that the cashier's contribution does not contribute to financing. I ask again: does the Enhedslisten believe that it is basically a healthy principle that there is a link between what you pay into an insurance scheme and what you can receive from that insurance scheme, so that you cannot receive everything else financed by other people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112722	After all, the unemployment benefit system is a mess of both insurance schemes and something that has been paid by the Community. So you don't get around that. With that argument, we would have to unpick all sorts of things. We are of the basic opinion that you must have security when you are affected by illness. And when you pay into an insurance fund, you have to have the prospect of preserving the right that you received when you joined. That is our basic position. If you want to correct the inequality between those who are members of an unemployment fund and those who are not, I think we should ensure that the conditions for those who are not members of an unemployment fund are improved. I'm sure sir. Joachim B. Olsen is really dreaming about late at night being able to do a little better for some people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112813	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112821	With this bill, L 86, the government and the parties to the agreement behind the Finance Act are correcting an obvious imbalance. Today you can earn a holiday allowance if you are on sickness benefit and a member of an unemployment insurance fund. If you are not a member of an unemployment insurance fund and are on sickness benefit, you are not entitled to sickness benefit. This is manifestly unfair, since sickness benefits are not financed by cash contributions. Nowadays, therefore, the cashier's contribution gives access to rights which the cashier's contribution has not financed. It's unsolidarous. The cashier's contribution shall not give access to services financed by others. L 86 provides revenue of just over 50 million. kr. The 50 million. kr. will include: be used for better cancer treatment. It's a better way to spend the money. That is why, of course, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202112941	Thank you. This bill is about depriving insured persons of their right to earn vacation while they are on sick leave. This means for vulnerable families that there is a risk of getting into a situation that because father or mother has been ill, they are not going on holiday that year. In doing so, I believe that the proposal is moving into the category of ethics and morality, more than political opinion. I think it is about concepts such as dignity and decency, and I think they are above whether you are blue or red or green. I think they are above whether you are in government or opposition. I think it's about how bad a situation you as a rich society will leave your sick, unemployed and vulnerable citizens in. Although we have low unemployment in Denmark, although we are a rich society on lots of parameters, we are isolating the unemployed Danes, the sick Danes and the exposed Danes in a particularly unbearable space at the bottom of our society where there is very little hope, very few opportunities and very far to the good life. We have, for example. Mrs Pernille Skipper has heard what other reductions in the benefit system have been made recently. We see it with the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. We are looking at the fact that hundreds of thousands of crowns have been saved on mentor support to help unemployed people in jobs. The aim is to abolish rehabilitation, which is a great help to get unemployed people into work. And now the opportunity to go on holiday for the low-income families whose mother or father has been long-term ill. At least they risk it. I know this law is going wide. People with a lot of money can still go on vacation. But low-income families' holidays are as long as the holidays that all of us have. Their children's holidays are as long as the holidays that all of us have. Apparently, the government can't help them getting off on vacation. Why? Because you've been sick. I think this law has a social battle page that reminds me how many times the bourgeois politicians have sat in this case with their hands in the pockets of the vulnerable. Too much of the economic development and growth in Denmark is based on a reverse Robin Hood strategy. Why is it that real economic growth is no longer at stake in the growing green markets, so that wealth can be created in Denmark, which can help to bring up the unemployed, the vulnerable and the sick? Why is it that we are no longer looking to create growth through innovation and innovation and entrepreneurship and the development of know-how and sustainable technology? Why do we save on green innovation and instead choose to base so much of economic development on sending money from the poor and up through society? Because of the poverty reforms and legislative proposals like this, it is a very bad idea to get sick or unemployed in Denmark. That is no matter what political position you have and whoever you have voted for. We believe that this bill contributes to depriving people of their dignity and society of its decency. It is the rich's societies that show pettyness to the sick and the vulnerable. We are opposed to this proposal and, if we are to harmonise the relationship between benefit recipients and cash benefits recipients, I would remind you that we can also harmonise upwards, in other words make it easier for cash benefits recipients, instead of bringing benefits recipients down to levels. So I guess it's no surprise that the alternative is against this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113322	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. A brief comment was made at the last minute. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113332	There was much air and very little concrete, but we have gradually become used to that when the alternative goes on the platform. I would now like to put a very specific question to the alternative rapporteur. Does the alternative rapporteur basically believe that it is right for an insurance fund contribution to give some rights that the cash fund contribution does not contribute to financing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113359	In this case, I would not have the slightest objection to it, and the rapporteur can use all the rhetorical tricks that may be and all the debate on rights, but when it comes to the substance of the matter, it is not illegal or wrong to allow sick people on daily allowances to earn holiday money. That is an ideological position; that is what it is all about. You first think that you have to save some money... and it shouldn't be so good for them here... and then you reinvent the arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113430	This is basically about principles. When you pay into an insurance scheme, I do not think that what you pay into it should give access to services that are funded by other people and that they do not have access to. It is surely a very, very healthy principle that when you pay into an insurance policy, the insurance covers some things that come from that insurance, but it does not give access to everything else financed by other people, that is, that there are some people who help to pay for something that they do not have access to. I guess that's basically unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113511	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113513	It seems to me that it is a reconstruction of arguments that must support an ideological attitude. I was expecting something more of the Liberal Alliance. I was delighted when the Liberal Alliance arrived in the Folketing at the time, at the entrepreneurial power that I had expected to bring in, at the innovation power that I had expected to bring in, and at the spirit of initiative that I had expected. However, I have now seen the rapporteur sitting with his hands in the pockets of the poor in this Chamber in the context of legislation under legislation, and I lack the entrepreneurship that I had expected the rapporteur's party to bring into the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113548	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl and goes on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113554	Thank you. Now I have listened through the debate and I really think that it has shown the nuances very well. We have one of those, we think, fairly nuanced approaches to it. But basically, we are also opposed to this proposal because it makes a group of people on sickness benefit worse without having the right to a holiday allowance, and that is because the government has had to find some funding. It is quite simple that it is in order to find money for a budget law, and we in the Radical Left have no need to contribute to that. Basically, we think it is a small proposal. Sick people must also be able to look forward to holidays, and the low-income families who expected to receive holiday allowances are now deprived of that opportunity. We basically think this is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113708	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113712	Thank you. I just need to hear something from the rapporteur. Now I could hear that it was said that it is a small proposal, but is it the case that it is not enough for the Radicals to deal with? For when the Radicals were in government, it was quite fine to cut the period of sickness benefit from 52 weeks to 22 weeks. The Radicals were very much in favour of this at the time. But when it comes to this little proposal for holiday money, you don't; you think that's completely wrong. How does this relate to that approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113747	No, what I meant by small things was that I think it is to wear small shoes to deprive sick people of the right to a holiday allowance. That is what I meant by it being a small proposal. There are many other proposals that we in the Radical Left are fully committed to in order to reform the labour market and the sickness insurance rules, all around, because we have felt and thought it was more reasonable, and it is quite right that we have also put forward what was the purpose of it and what it was intended to finance. But there has also been a purpose. Here it seems that the government has had to find some money for the Finance Act with its conciliation parties, and that is fair enough, but perhaps you should just stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113837	The Danish People's Party also stands by the Finance Act we have made. We're happy with the Finance Act, there's nothing there. But I can only note that when the agreement on sickness benefits was drawn up, when Radicals sat in government, and the period of sickness benefit was cut from 52 weeks to 22 weeks, the money was also needed for something, and radicals said that at that time was quite right. There we can only see that there are different views about what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113916	We can see that there are quite different views. Because this is about taking the opportunity to receive holiday benefits from sickness benefit recipients who are members of an unemployment insurance fund, and that seems to us to be wearing very small shoes. When we reformed the sickness insurance rules, it was quite general for more people to be able to have access to other opportunities and not to be on sickness benefit for such a long time. It had a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113941	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202113946	I must admit that the position of the Radicals here surprises me somewhat. I cannot make it all the same that the Radicals can really take the view that a bank contribution must give access to rights which the cash contribution does not fund. What is the solidarity, the social justice, that people who are not members of an insurance fund should help to finance through the tax some rights for others who are members of an insurance fund that they do not have access to? What's the fair thing in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114029	Now the rapporteur has mentioned this at times, and I think that is actually a very relevant and nuanced consideration. I think with this bill that it is a matter of just hitting the lowest common denominator, and I really think, and in the Radical Left we think it is a very good thing that people organise themselves. For me, there may be some special privileges of having just insured. In any case, we in the Radical Left feel that there is no reason to pull down a whole group simply because others have fewer options.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114109	The rapporteur must then be able to explain to me why the low-paid person who is not a member of an unemployment fund should help to finance the fact that others who are members of an unemployment fund, who also have higher salaries, must have some rights funded by the person with a low income. Why is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114142	Oh, I think that sir. Joachim B. Olsen knows it's somewhat simplified. In fact, we have a large number of services... I think that Mrs. Pernille Skipper actually explained what is very well connected in different ways in this society. If the government and its support parties in the Finance Act really do, then the Radical Left would like to participate in the discussion. This bill is about finding some money and making a group of people's opportunities inferior, people who are sick and on sickness benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114219	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114226	So we will have to talk about harmonisation again today. Yesterday it was the violent deterioration of pupils in the production schools that was to be harmonised. After all, there is something nice and something warm and something welcoming about words coming from the harmonica. But it's just newspeak. It's just a clever word to make the deterioration slide down. This is gross manipulation, because the bill is all about reducing the conditions of the sick. The debate, even today, is filled with bad excuses and excuses and attempts to drown the criticism in a purely theoretical discussion about the relationship between the insurance scheme in the A-box and the Treasury. The fact is again that it is the sickest, the most disadvantaged, who get a bill; as if sick people do not have enough to fight. A slap in one year must be followed by a slap in the next year. This bill is one of many stones that is torn out of the foundations of the labour market, which excels in both security and flexibility. It cannot be explained away by enough theoretical spin manoeuvres about the relationship between the quota to the a-box and the treasury. Or is it perhaps the case that all the cashiers and trade unions have misunderstood everything in this exercise? I mean, I'm just offering anyone interested in the matter to read the hearing answers. But maybe it's the case that all the A-boxes and federations in this country have completely misunderstood what this is all about. If, moreover, we are now at the hearing answers: I think the Minister's answer is, indeed, insultingly bad. When federations and the co-operation of unemployment funds raise a number of objections and concerns, what is the response? A pure reprint of spinal cord reactions, where you just refer to what the law is about. So, at best, I would call it meaningless, and on a bad day like today, I would call it insultingly bad to respond so arrogantly to the collusion of the unemployment funds and trade unions, by simply referring to what the law is all about, rather than just going into the concerns and objections raised by the trade unions and the associations of unemployment funds. It is irresponsible, and it is almost mocking the trade union organizations and the co-operation of the unemployment funds. This bill hits sick people, and it hits the model for our labour market, which among other things. is based on the fact that it must be attractive to be a member of an unemployment insurance fund. The government is cutting again the branch on which our labour market model is based. SF is going to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114541	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks... yes, it goes this time, but you can press in before it's all over. Here you go, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114558	Copy that, sir. President. I'd really like to ask Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge the same question I have asked others, because I think it is amazing that you cannot get an answer to it. Why is it that the SF may think that an insurance fund contribution, a membership should give access to some rights that that contribution has not helped finance? Well, what's fair in that? You continue to talk about an insurance scheme, but an insurance scheme is characterised by the fact that it only gives access to rights, benefits that the insurance contribution has helped to finance • not all sorts of other things. So why should a cashier's contribution provide access to services that the cashier's contribution has not in any way helped to finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114654	Well, I recognize Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's knowledge and interest in the labour market, and therefore Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is very well aware that there is no fixed line or limit between what the state finances and what the A funds finance. For decades, we have built up a model in which it is not the cash allowance which finances the payment of daily allowances. In times when there are many unemployed, the State pays by far the largest part of the costs that are about to have a benefit system; in other periods it is so small. But there is a relationship between the quota you pay and what the state pays. And the line between the two systems that together make up our benefit system is always something that can be moved. The point here is, until now, this has been part of that system. So, if it makes any sense at all and I should try to get to the point of thinking, I was also completely surprised when I heard Mr. Joachim B. Olsen used words of solidarity, and I had to sink that once and for all, you could imagine lifting the bottom for those who were not insured. If, at the end of the day, we are very concerned about harmonization and solidarity, then I would like to be open to raising the opportunities for non-insured people to actually receive cash benefits the following year, but that is not what is on the table. So my answer to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is that since you have the scheme now, it is part of the premise for insurance, which you now go in and change unilaterally, and that is not so fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114818	One can easily have an exciting discussion about the fairness of the whole benefit system, that is to say that one pays into an unemployment fund, and then others have to finance the benefits you can get but there is, after all, some connection. After all, there is some connection between unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit; not fully, because it is not a self-financing system, it is not a purely insurance scheme. However, it is a question here of the money-box contribution giving access to certain rights which it does not at all fund. It would make just as much sense for an insurance fund contribution to give access to cheaper train cards or cheaper bus tickets or anything else. After all, there must be some connection. That must be recognized in the SF too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114904	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114907	The main connection is that we have a benefit system to make it attractive for people to join, and there is one among many stones that is not the largest stone, but it is one among many stones that is now removed from the basics of the benefit system and that makes it less attractive to join. That is what the consultation answers from the co-operation of the unemployment funds and the trade unions clearly point to. That is why we can always question where the limit should go. So if I am going to give it a chance at all and think further out of the path that I really do not want, but which the Liberal Alliance is presenting here, then it should mean that the quota for the 'A' boxes was also reduced, because this was, as a starting point, part of the package when the insurance was drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114945	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. I have not noted that several rapporteurs have asked to speak. And that is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202114954	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law today. After all, it is no secret that the draft law, as several rapporteurs have also said, stems from the financial agreement for 2017, where it was agreed to harmonise the right of sickness benefit recipients to earn holiday allowances. In the case of sickness benefit recipients who are not members of an unemployment insurance fund, today there is no possibility of earning holiday allowance and never had that privilege. With the 2017 Finance Act, it has been agreed that the rules must be the same for everyone. That is why we also want to harmonise the rules with the legislative proposal so that no sick person in future earns the right to a holiday allowance. It is true that this is a tightening of the rules, and the way in which the draft law is dealt with also bears witness to this, and the government is, of course, fully committed to this. I also think it is important to emphasise that I think that the tightening is quite reasonable. This should be seen in the light of the fact that sickness benefits are 100%. financed by the public sector, as is also evident from the debate here today, and that they are not indirectly co-financed by the members of the cash register, like unemployment benefit. It is argued that it will impair the insurance system and thus also challenge the flexicurity model. The fact is, as a member of an unemployment insurance fund, you don't pay for sickness benefits. Therefore, it is not a principle of justice that dictates that you should be better placed than other sickness benefit recipients. In short, therefore, I believe that the austerity is basically reasonable, because membership of the cash register should not be decisive in determining whether you are entitled to a public service which is earned on the basis of a service which is not co-financed by the members. It has also been argued by a number of rapporteurs that it will affect sick people. In future, sickness benefit recipients will be able to recover, get a job and have to take a holiday and, in view of the change in the rules, have not earned a holiday allowance. It is true that this will be the case for some and that it is the case today for sickness benefit recipients who are not members of an unemployment insurance fund. In this situation, the persons concerned must accept that if they have not earned holiday allowances or are entitled to sick pay, they must pay their own vacation by putting a little aside their salary. This applies, of course, only to the first year of the job, as the persons concerned will have earned holiday allowances or entitlement to paid leave during the next year. The sickness benefits in question are thus in the same situation as the students when they are completed and are given a job and have not earned holiday allowances in the first year. Against this background, I believe that this is a quite reasonable change of rules, which first and foremost means that it will be possible to spend money elsewhere in our welfare societies. Because when we take a look at the overall financial bill for 2017, it is precisely, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, about improving our core welfare, security and accountability. This is among other things. so that we strengthen the health sector, the cancer sector, by 2.2 billion. kr. over the next four years. This requires funding and priority, and that is also why we are tightening the rules in some places; it is for us to be able to provide funds elsewhere. This is a priority for which the government is pleased that there is support after the first reading of the draft law today. And, of course, I am also looking forward to the committee's consideration of the issues that might come, as this bill is a consequence of the financial agreement concluded on 18 November 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115337	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115341	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not think it is unreasonable that, when an insurance policy has been drawn up and there in the insurance policy, among other things. says that you can earn holiday allowance during illness, it is removed with a snap. The prize is kept where it is. If it were carried out outside Christiansborg, there would also be an outcry from the Left, I am sure if you were treated like that. Does the Minister think that this is a way of treating the people who are in an insurance fund and who have taken out an insurance fund on the terms that are now being removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115424	If it was the case that I did not think it was a good and fair model that was presented, I should probably not be standing here today as a minister. So I can stand up for it. As the debate has also shown, sickness benefit is 100 per cent. financed by the public authorities. That's why there isn't that clutch that Mr. Jan Johansen would like to discuss today. That is why I can fully support what we have put forward. There is also today a difference about whether you are a member or a non-member of an unemployment fund. So, yes, it is, I think, something that you can stand at the mark of well to notice also when you look at what the adoption of the financial bill is going to strengthen. It is precisely going to strengthen health. So it's not like this is going to hurt sick people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115516	First of all, of course, I would say that when you take out insurance, you will not know which box it is actually taken from. That's just the way it is. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether he is not worried that the good system we have under the insurance system, with people insuring themselves, will be eroded, so that fewer people do not take out the insurance which should be a subsidy to finance it when people are unemployed. If the good working model gets in and out quickly we have, gets hollowed out and, as we boast so much around the world, we can't have the flexible labour market we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115554	I would like to take this opportunity at least for the first time as Minister for Employment to make it quite clear that I support a hundred percent of the model we have created in Denmark. We have a very flexible labour market for the great benefit of our industry, and it is absolutely true that it is something that changing governments over the past many decades have worked for. So it's important that we cherish that model. But I do not think that this proposal puts that model under any pressure at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115628	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115631	I would like to ask the Minister about the position on the hearings that have been given. There we have serious objections and concerns from the LO, FTF, AC and AK-Samvirke, which raise a number of objections to the bill. And the only way to reflect on it by the Minister is simply to list why the bill will be implemented. There is therefore not a single comment on the reflections made by the trade unions and AK-Samvirke. What is the background to this type of arrogant answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115708	I don't know if it's arrogant. It is certainly not something that I in any way think is something one should take in one's mouth. But I am not in charge of that, because the questioner is free to use the words that the questioner wants. In relation to the consultation note, I would like to say that I believe that this is a very clear legislative proposal and I do not believe that there is any need for greater scientific clarification. I would also just like to remind you that quite a lot of questions have been asked about the proposal made by the government in the Finance Act, which has also reached the Employment Committee and, as I remember, at least 10 to 15 questions have been answered by the former Minister for Employment. But I certainly believe that this consultation note makes sense, and we are also being dealt with by a committee here in the Folketing. So if there are things you want to ask about, you can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115758	Yeah, we'll get back to it. I'd like to promise the Minister. I am just thinking of the fact that, in other contexts, we now recognise the importance of having strong professional organisations, for example. as recently as here the other day, when the Prime Minister from the platform so celebrated the Danish model, where you have tripartite talks, we have here some of the leading professional organisations in this country, including AK-Samvirke, who raise a number of concerns and questions to it. Do they really have to be swept away with something I might call a move on the shoulder, where one has mostly pulled oneself up to make a copy-paste and just put in what the law is about, and doesn't at any time respond to the reflections that the organizations and AK-Samvirke have? Surely this is not a fair way of dealing with the serious organisations which, moreover, bear our labour market model.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115846	These are very serious organisations and it is also important to recognise the organisations for the important role they have in Denmark. In relation to the consultation note, it is true that the consultation answer that has been given and that I have here expresses the concerns we have discussed here today, and there is, of course, a political disagreement. And it is not the case that political disagreements can be allowed to go away in a consultation note. I have to say. That is why we are discussing in the Folketing and there are changing governments. The beauty of it is that democracy allows you to be in government sometimes... it has also been favored by past and other times you have to be in opposition, and that is not so exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115928	We thank the Minister for Employment. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161202115942	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 5 December 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
