ParlaMint-DK_20160317100021	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Nas Khade (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the deadline for completion of the scheduled work of the Committee of the Faithful Communities). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the visibility of the consequences of air pollution and a plan of action to reduce air pollution) and motion for a resolution No. B-94 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on effective action against plastic pollution). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Jesper Petersen, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 19 March 2016 he can again meet at the Tinget. Anne Sina's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100127	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 33 by Hans Andersen (V), Marlene Harpsøe (DF), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 33 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 32 of Finn Sørensen (EL), Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100247	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 35 of René Christensen (DF) and Jacob Jensen (V). The vote is closed. In favour 43 (DF, V and 1 (KF) (by mistake)) voted against 9 (LA), abstaining 55 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF). Proposal for adoption No V 35 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 34 by Benny Engelbrecht (S), Rune Lund (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Jonas Dahl (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 36 of Ole Birk Olesen (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100436	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100511	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Is there anyone who wants to speak? Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100537	Thank you. I also choose to speak later on the final proposal, so I will just use a few words to tell you what this amendment is about. We have, of course, been discussing a lot of things for a while in connection with this bill, but we have discussed in particular whether this leads to more postponements, whether more people are going to have to leave their homes because of this bill. We've had a hearing, we've got consultation answers and pretty much all the players... it can be the housing companies, the social workers and the local authorities' association... that have to do with it every day... that this will mean that more people will be exposed by their homes. That is why we have had these hearings, which is why we have, of course, had all these debates. I myself have been in the Chamber several times and in consultation with the Minister to find out who is right and whether it is the Minister with his assessment that there will be no further postponements or whether it is all these people who actually know about what is right. That is why we have had all these discussions and questions, which I am sure can also be found in the minutes. The reason why we are wondering and why we are not convinced that the Minister is right, but that it is the parties who have the experience that are right, is that if you look at the history itself, it actually turns out that back in the 00s, when a study was also carried out on the cash aid ceiling, it turned out that the number of delays also increased significantly and that this was the ceiling for cash aid at the time that caused the number of delays to increase significantly. So we in the Social Democratic Party are convinced that this bill will mean more postponements, that it will mean that more people cannot stay in their homes. But neither the Danish People's Party nor the government believe it will have that consequence. In fact, we have always hoped and tried to get this bill rejected and get rid of it because we think there are many injustices in what I will discuss in my speech later. That is why we have really tried to table amendments and other amendments. However, with the debates that have taken place, we are now well aware that, unfortunately, it seems that a majority will be voting in favour of this bill in a few moments' time. Since we are not convinced of what the government thinks, namely that there will be no further postponements, we have chosen to table this amendment, which means that the government has the opportunity to give money to the municipalities if this proposal turns out that there are actually more delays. This means that the state can pay the people affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, so that the state can contribute to this, so that it is not the municipalities that will again have to sit on the bill, so that we make sure that it is not the municipalities that have to pay, but that it is the state. We are, of course, proposing this amount in the revenue contained in this proposal. I have to look at the government, and I also have to look at the Danish People's Party, because the only thing we have heard from the government and the Danish People's Party is that this will not lead to any further postponements. If you really believe that this will not lead to any further postponements, then I just have to say to all those sitting in this Chamber that they will be able to vote for it calmly, because it will not cost money. It is only if the ceiling on cash benefits leads to more delays that it will cost money. So I would say to those who are in doubt: vote in favour. And I will say to those who are in no doubt: vote in favour. Because then it won't cost anything. In other words, it is quite quiet, and it is very, very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317100956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. However, there are a few brief comments, so I would just like to ask Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen to come back up here. It's first, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101029	Thank you. Is it not true that 84 per cent. Of all married couples on cash benefits, are not Western immigrants? If we take the Western immigrants, it's 87 percent. of all married couples on cash benefits who are foreigners; that is, nine out of ten married couples on cash benefits are foreigners. And when we know how difficult it has been to get many foreigners and immigrants into the labour market, is it not sensible to make it more attractive to take a job instead of being on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101115	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101117	Now this is an amendment, but I would also like to take the debate here again in a moment. I certainly have no objection to that if it is the general proposal as it stands. But my answer to the question is that if you look at the cash aid ceiling, the vast majority of those affected are ethnic Danes. But I just feel so somewhere that I think it's a little amazing that the Danish People's Party is more interested in looking at one or the other group. I'm just arranged in such a way that I kind of don't care where you come from; I don't care what kind of environment you come from. All I'm interested in is that all those who can work have to work. And if you can't, you need some help. That's the problem with this bill: it hits many of those who can't work at all. It's the disabled, it's the sick, it's the veterans. It is so many people who have no opportunity to get to work that you are hitting. These are the ones I have a huge interest in, and they are the ones I feel for today if the Danish People's Party doesn't mind and help with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101221	Thank you. There is a new brief comment to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. I would just like to ask Members who wish to make a brief comment to press on. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101227	Well, I have to repeat: nine out of ten married couples on cash benefits are of foreign origin. And when we know how difficult it has been to get them to work, then it makes sense to create space for it to pay off to go to work. The Socialists will do so by introducing wage dumping. The Danish People's Party would rather do this by making a greater difference between receiving cash benefits and being in work. However, will the rapporteur not admit that this is the right way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101308	But I simply do not understand the question, there were many things in it. But, that is, the Danish People's Party must also have a bad taste in its mouth today; the Danish People's Party must somewhere feel a little taken by the nose, because we saw in a reply from the Minister of Finance yesterday that it is not worth taking a job, and that if this bill gets through, there is no gain in getting to work. The question is, how do you get a person • regardless of whether it is an ethnic Dane or what it is that is sick, who has mental problems that are disabled, started by taking money from him or her. It is, of course, the question of the means of action, and that is what the Danish People's Party does not in any way understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101350	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101353	The problem with the amendment tabled by the Socialists here is that you make it sound as if there is a link between the level of cash benefits and delays. The reality is far more complicated than that, and reports have also documented it. The SFI has produced a large report on postponements, and they note that when you look at the families who are exposed, you can see that there are a large number of social indicators in particular that can explain why a family is being put out, compared with the fact that the municipalities today have a large number of tools that they have a duty to put in place if a family gets into financial difficulties and can thus risk a postponement. That is why this amendment is not feasible because it sets out a one-to-one relationship and there is no one-to-one relationship between the level of cash benefits and deferrals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101500	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101503	If sir... Joachim B. Olsen is right that you can see these things and that it's that simple, so you can really just vote in favour. Well, it's clear: of course there's a one-to-one connection. We can just look at the history, we can see how it was in the '00s when these poverty benefits were introduced. Then the number of postponements increased. When the Social Democratic-led government then abolished them in 2011, the number of postponements decreased; this happened exactly at the same time as these poverty benefits were abolished. Is it really so naive to think that it won't happen again, even if history says otherwise? That's why we're just quietly trying to get everyone in here a little bit and say: Well, let's all try to help the municipalities. I'm looking at the Dansk Folkeparti • do they also want to help the municipalities in terms of the economy? The Social Democrats would like to. So let us help the municipalities if that becomes a problem for them. If I'm right, there's money to help the municipalities. If sir... Joachim B. Olsen is right, it doesn't matter, because then you won't need the money, and that's why Mr. Joachim B. Olsen doesn't need the money. Joachim B. Olsen has nothing to lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101611	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101613	It is the rapporteur who simplifies things. One simplifies things when one says that there is a one-to-one relationship between the level of cash benefits and deferrals. The SFI has clearly documented this. Those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are the group which is at least in danger of being exposed. These are the ones with the highest available amounts, where there is room in the budget to pay even reasonably high rents. Those who are put off are those who are not affected at all by the ceiling on cash benefits. They are first and foremost single parents. So this amendment is the one that simplifies a very complicated issue and it is quite clear that the Social Democrats are just using it here as a contribution to a debate where we want to simplify things instead of taking the knowledge that is actually in the area of postponements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101714	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101715	Fortunately, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and I seem to have different books and get our knowledge from different places, because I'm not at all convinced that this bill doesn't hit those groups and results in more postponements. I'm not convinced of that. That is why, through this proposal, I am trying to help the municipalities with the economy. That's because I'm not judging the case in the same way as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen does. That is why I am trying to table an amendment which can actually also accommodate the other side of the House. Can we then not agree on this and help the municipalities to have a better economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101751	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. It is a little bit on the edge of asking questions to your own rapporteur, but we are going to let it go through here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101800	Well, that is because I thought the rapporteur failed to answer a question put by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Alex Ahrendtsen. Well, we've heard a lot of crazy things from the Danish People's Party in this process. You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off, but to hear Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen of the Danish People's Party stand and accuse the Social Democratic Party that we want to introduce wage dumping is one of the most crazy things I have heard for a long time, and I did not think the rapporteur answered the question. Then the rapporteur would not like to comment on the claim made by the Danish People's Party and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's side, and can the rapporteur confirm in this connection that it was the Danish People's Party that tabled a motion for a resolution in the 2011-12 Parliamentary Assembly, B 92, to block the possibility for the trade union movement to conflict and thus introduce wage dumping? And can the rapporteur confirm that, in addition to hitting all those who have been elucidated, can we understand today that 500 to 600 veterans will also be affected by this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317101902	I am, in fact, pleased with the question, because the reason why I did not answer it was that I did not have the time. So, even if you think it's not right by Mr. Simpson... Jeppe Bruus to ask questions, so it gives an opportunity to actually answer a question that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen asked. That is completely incorrect. If anyone has been involved in helping a bourgeois government to introduce social dumping and wage dumping, then it is if any Danish People's Party. We saw that in the '00s, and we'll see it again. The Danish People's Party has by no means helped this. We've seen it over and over again. Sir. Jep Bruus just mentioned that at one point the Danish People's Party, which challenged me a little with who was a working party, would take the right to strike from ordinary workers the other day. How can you do that if you just have a little sense of what is happening in the labour market? As an old shop steward, I know that this is the opportunity you have if you really are on your knees and have no other options. Then there's the right to strike. Well, there are just so many examples that the Danish People's Party has in no way contributed here. So I thank you again for the question and am glad that I had time to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102007	Thank you. And there is always access for all members of the Parliament's platform if you wish to speak. I understand that sir. Finn Sørensen wishes to speak. Is that for the amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102039	Thank you. Well, the chairman pulls the strings, and then we jump off like Pinocchio. That's the way it is. What we are dealing with now are the amendments and, unlike some of those who have asked questions, I will try to deal with the subject and inform you that we are abstaining from voting on the Minister's Amendment No. 1, that we shall vote in favour of the Minister's Amendment No. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, and for the fact that we also support the Socialist Group in the European Parliament's amendments. 3. We think this is a very good proposal. This is nothing at all to solve the many problems that thousands of people will face when this legislation comes into force, but the least that can be done is to free the municipalities from the extra costs. It is, of course, very well-chosen, because the proposal is actually the result of an answer that we have repeated many, many times, namely that if there are finally problems for some people so that they cannot pay their rent by virtue of this, yes, then the municipalities are allowed to help them with moving aid. It was supposed to solve the problem for the people it is suffering. Of course it does not, but the least we can do is to keep the municipalities harmless, which is why it is clear that we must support such an amendment. It would be interesting to hear, I think, from the platform because no supplementary report has been submitted on this amendment, so we have been able to get an indication of what the bourgeois parties really think about it. Therefore, it might be interesting if some spokesman for the bourgeois camp would go to the platform and explain what you think of this and the excellent arguments which Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen came with us. Then I have to get some things straight anyway so it doesn't just hover in the air. I heard Mr. Joachim B. Olsen say that those who do best in this situation are single parents. I simply do not understand that. In other words, we spent a lot of time in some study area during the question debate where we had to read out the Minister's answer to Question No. 63 from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who clearly showed that those who are hit the hardest by this bill in economic terms are approx. 13,000 single parents, the vast majority of whom are women. After all, according to the Minister's own estimates, a single person with two children receives an annual reduction in the available amount of DKK 36,300. It's some kind of money. At least a lot of shoes can be bought for that money, even for a bourgeois politician. I think it's a good thing to put things in order. A single person with a child loses DKK 30,900. This means that the single person with a child comes down to a lump sum of DKK 7,233. a month. The single person with two children has to make it for DKK 10,291 after the rent has been paid. I have just received that reply before we went down here to answer a question I asked on the basis of the figures given by the Housing Society's National Association in the letter A4 here a few days ago, where they said that it may well be that the average amounts calculated by the Minister, which I have just read out here, are right enough if you take them as an average at national level. But what is the situation in the Copenhagen area where there are significantly higher rents? I have asked the Minister about this, and the Minister has in fact almost confirmed the National Association of Housing Companies' calculation, which says that a family with three children with the cash aid ceiling and the high rent of 8,875 DKK. per month will be available for a sum of DKr 12,600. I have then asked the Minister how many people are affected by it. It might also be nice to know, not because it changes our attitude to it, but it was nice to know. Unfortunately, the Minister cannot answer that question. But no matter what, we know that there are a great many people in the metropolitan area who are being hit here. This, of course, leads to those people being forced to move, and that is also what lies in the whole argument for this ceiling of cash benefits: then they just have to give priority, or they have to find somewhere else to live. And then I guess it's fair, since you don't want to change it, to do what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and make a proposal to free the municipalities from the extra costs. Because we know that the extra costs that the municipality is going to get, so just have to be covered elsewhere in the welfare area. So it might be interesting to hear from the bourgeois camp what you really think about that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102536	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102542	Sir. Finn Sørensen mixes pears and bananas here. What I said earlier was that the families affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are those who have very large sums of money available. It will be the case that, after this ceiling, that family, which the rapporteur is talking about, a family consisting of a married couple with three children, will have DKK 22 700. paid each month. In that budget there is room for you to pay a rent. The groups in the cash benefits system which are at risk and those who have had problems with postponement are not at all the groups affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. It is single in the cash benefits system which, moreover, has all sorts of other problems, mental problems and other social problems. This is clearly explained by the SFI report on postponements. So you mix things up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102642	It's sir. Joachim B. Olsen, who mixes things up. I have just read out the amount of available money for a family with three children in the metropolitan area, these are the Minister's own figures, and we will then have to take them as a basis. Then it is a completely subjective assessment whether you think it is reasonable or not. I think the rapporteur knows my position on this, so I am not going to wade in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102704	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102706	Then, of course, we can get the rapporteur's position. Is it unreasonable for us in Denmark to say that a family with three children has DKK 22,700? is that what goes into the account? Is it so low that you cannot live for what has to be a temporary benefit? Is it frankly Enhedslisten's position that 22,700 DKK. is so low a sum that you can't make things stick together?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102740	Will the rapporteur not listen well enough? There is no point in repeating an amount of rent. What's interesting for people, I'd like to say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is what they have in their hands when they pay the rent. That's what this whole discussion is about. The short part of the length of this bill is that thousands of people who do not have a lot of money in advance are being cut off, and for some people they are either forced to move to a place that nobody knows where, because we have been told that there are no cheap homes to give to those people, or they are going to end up on the streets. That's what this whole discussion is all about, and it would be nice if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen wanted to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102831	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102834	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur to confirm that during the time he has spoken from the platform, he has not even mentioned in the debate the possibility that these families on cash benefits could find a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102850	I would very much have liked to have been there, but there's really no reason to take that whole discussion again. I'm sure we'll get it. But the Minister has given the answer to it in the bill and in the comments to the bill. The government itself does not believe that this will lead to any kind of polite increase in employment at all. You make 30,000 people poorer. The Minister himself expects that this will mean that 700 more people can be employed, which is calculated on the accounting machines of the Ministry of Finance, and that is structural unemployment and up and down here. Those are magic numbers in themselves. And it is then, if you are lucky, that by 2020 700 more will come into work. In the meantime, many thousands of people have become poorer. But we can do that one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102947	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317102949	Well, thank you. I fully recognise that the Enhedslisten and the Left are parties with a very different value base and also views on how a modern dynamic labour market should work. Nevertheless, I find it interesting to exorcise how the values differ. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is really reasonable that a single parent with three children who go to work every day should receive a benefit of approx. 600 kr. per month, compared to if this single parent was on cash benefits. Is this a sufficient difference to enable Enhedslisten's rapporteur to see the fairness of it, or should it be greater perhaps less?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103025	I think it is totally unfair that we have employers in this country who want to eat their employees off with such low wages. There is a huge task for the trade union movement to fight the level of the lowest wages up, and it is in the interests of all employees that this happens because it is so simple. It is confirmed by many, many economists, regardless of their political position, that there is a link between the lowest social benefits and the minimum wage in this country. When social benefits are pressed down, wages follow down, and that is an important agenda in the legislative proposal that has been put forward here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103105	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103109	I would really like to come to see my colleague, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, a little help, because the question wasn't really answered. It was a very simple question: After tax, a family on cash benefits with three children has DKK 22,700. paid out. Then, of course, the family will have to pay housing costs, it will have to pay all the expenses that you have as a family. And the question was: Is it according to Mr. Finn Sørensen a reasonable level that a family with three children on cash benefits has 22,700 DKK. - paid out? - Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103152	So, has the rapporteur not figured out what is going on here at all? If I thought it was a reasonable level, then I was not standing here in the platform, then I just voted in favour of the bill. I do not think this is a reasonable level, and I have justified it, namely that rent should be paid out of it. And what is interesting for people is what they have in their hands when they have paid their housing expenses. That's what this whole discussion is about. This bill is about weakening people's ability to pay their housing costs. It is strange that the rapporteur has not yet realised this. I think we have spent a lot of hours discussing what the content is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103230	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103232	It does not suit the rapporteur to be so condescending and arrogant, but we have at least received an answer, and the answer is that Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks it's quite fine that a family with three children on cash benefits can receive 22,700 DKK. after tax, and that the same family who then goes to work should hardly get anything out of going to work. I find that very interesting, and thank you for the answer, even though it was condescending. After all, I was delighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103305	Now I always try to meet all members of this Parliament with kindness, but also with sharpness, when I think they deserve some sharp answers. And I've tried both in my answers. Then I should just like to point out a small fact which I think the rapporteur forgets and which is forgotten in general on that side of the House. I have asked the Minister and the rapporteurs many times whether they can explain to me how a low-paid cashier in Netto will feel better if the unemployed person gets worse. I have not really received an answer to that yet, and that is clear, because she does not. On the contrary. If she becomes unemployed herself, she will be affected by the same rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103351	Thank you. Then we shall have a little quiet in the Chamber, including when the rapporteur is on the floor. We must respect each other's views. Well, then it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, and I would once again like to ask you to be very careful in asking questions to your own rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103408	I do so only because there is such wrong information in this Chamber. We hear here in two cases that it is said that families on cash benefits are paid DKK 22 700, I think it is said. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is, of course, a lie? For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If you take into account the cut you get, or the free space you get to your daycare centre, in the figures you get, then you can go into Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's website and see that it's not money you get paid out. When we talk about room for manoeuvre, we must look at what is left of us after all the fixed costs have been paid and there these families have little to live for, let alone compared with the rapporteurs over here who are speaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103451	You always have access to the platform, also as a privateist, later, if that's what you want. Then I think we should have a really good tone and a good mood. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103502	Thank you. I can confirm that what is interesting is what people have in their hands when the fixed costs have been paid, and so much I would like to give the Minister's calculation that this is what has been tried to clarify. Then we are unhappy that they may choose some average considerations and ignore the fact that some people are exposed to significantly higher housing costs and are therefore hit much harder than the Minister's average calculations. What is in your hand when the flat-rate expenditure has been paid, and these are the figures I have read out earlier and which I will not repeat, because I do not think it will help. I don't think it's gonna pop in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103555	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103558	Sir. Pelle Dragsted may be excused, but he is not an employment rapporteur, but he is Mr Pelle Dragsted. Finn Sørensen. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Finn Sørensen: Finn Sørensen confirms that the DKK 22,700, which you as a cash recipient with three children have for yourself after tax, is without taking into account the allowance you get for free space?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103623	I think that's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103629	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103630	Thank you for that, because it turned out that Mr. Finn Sørensen was able to confirm that was not true when Mr. Pelle Dragsted said it was a lie. Thank you. Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103639	I would ask you to remain calm on this side of the House [on the President's right]. Thank you. Finn Sørensen, can I say something? ) Yes. Yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103651	Thank you. It's for the purpose, of course, that we have to go in and check that number. But what's interesting is the amount of money available and that's what I gave Mr. Pelle Dragsted is right about what people have in their hands when they have paid their rent. And there I think the Minister will confirm that the figures he has supplied are correct, including his latest answer to me, that if we look at the rents in the Copenhagen area, we will see that the family with three children when the rent is paid and I think it's the same family we're talking about will have a lump sum of about. 12,000 kr., 12,600 kr. to be precise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103745	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Does anyone else wish to speak on the amendment? As no one else wishes to speak, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103803	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservative People's Party)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 outside the supplementary report by Leif Lahn Jensen, the Social Democratic Party, and the vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103852	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317103914	This bill has been going on for a very long time and the result is clear: it has huge consequences, but minimal or no gains at all. According to virtually everyone, except the Danish People's Party and the government, this proposal will lead to more postponements of housing, more homeless, greater poverty, 34 500 children will have inferior living conditions, single, sick, disabled and about 500 veterans will get worse • all those who need us all, all those who need the community, will be hit hard by what the Danish People's Party and the Left are now adopting. Let's take a deaf couple, people who can't hear. According to the Minister for Social Affairs, there are some prejudices on the labour market about these people and about this disability. It means they have really, really, really hard to get started. Actually, these deaf married couples are job-ready. This means that they can easily work 225 hours and they can easily work full time. So I just ask: will it remove prejudice and will it restore their hearing that we take money from them? I don't think so. Let's imagine Lonnie, as we've heard of. It's a single parent with two children born with a spasmic paralysis in the brain. When she walks on the street and meets her children, she sometimes doesn't recognize them, including her own mother. She's been through 15 work tests, 25 years on cash benefits, it's really, really hard, and as everyone can see, even Mr. Joachim B.. Olsen told the press she probably won't get started. So I ask again: will her innate disability disappear just because you take money from her? I don't believe that either. The young people who have been at war to fight for Danish values, to fight for us all, come home with psychic diseases because they have experienced some pretty horrible things that many of us cannot even imagine. They suffer from stress, and even small changes in their lives can cause their world to collapse. My next question is: will less money to live for give these people less stress? I don't believe that either. These things could in fact have been avoided by the Danish People's Party by voting in favour of the amendments at second reading on Tuesday. That's true of both the deaf and the veterans and the Lonnie thing. The Danish People's Party had the opportunity to help these people, but they chose to say no to that. What, then, is the benefit of this bill? Yes, the Minister estimates that 700 jobs will come out of doing this. That is the Minister's assessment. But if you look at the studies from the '00s, it actually turns out that there was no employment effect. In other words, the Minister can assess everything the Minister wants, but studies show that there was no employment effect. We often heard Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said in the election campaign and also later, when he became Prime Minister, that it makes it worthwhile to work. Here, in connection with the bill, we have even heard Mrs Marlene Harpsøe of the Danish People's Party say it over and over again: there must be financial incentives, it must be worthwhile to work, and that is why we are in favour of this proposal. Finally, after four months, a reply from the Minister of Finance has been received to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who clearly shows the true face of the proposal. This proposal will virtually not give people more money in their pockets when they get to work. There will still be 14,000 that will get zero dollars in prizes, as there are today. There will still be 37,000, which will get less than 1,000 kroner. in winnings • just as there is today. So it has clearly been proved that it cannot answer. So the argument that months have been spent telling us about it, and the reason why you put all these people in big trouble, has, in fact, more or less disappeared. So dear government, dear Danish People's Party, there is no reason at all to implement this unfair proposal. I don't see it. Why does the Danish People's Party agree to this? Well, that's what I'm asking myself. I know that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe would not go to the platform on Tuesday, but she went to the platform later when everyone was asleep, or they saw something going on with the Queen. But I certainly hope that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe will take the floor today, and I think Mrs Marlene Harpsøe should come up here and explain why the Danish People's Party does so, why they agree to it, explain it to us, explain it to the electorate and explain it to all those who believed in the Danish People's Party in the election campaign. Does Mrs Marlene Harpsøe really think that all these people should just put on the jahat, and then it will be all right, as was said, the last time Mrs Marlene Harpsøe was on the platform? Does Mrs Marlene Harpsøe still believe that this bill will make it worthwhile to work and that all these people will therefore have to pay the price when we can now see that there is no gain? I do not recognize the politics of the Danish People's Party. Either the Danish People's Party is completely indifferent to these people, or they have once again been taken by the government, and we have seen this happen before. I would very much like to know these things, there are many of us who very much want to know, and I expect and believe and hope that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe will go up and explain this today. The Socialists will not be involved in this, because it does not work and it hits the wrong people. So what have we been trying to do? We haven't been quiet. We have asked a host of questions which we have called the Minister in consultation several times. I have been in this Chamber several times asking the Minister, and so have several of my good colleagues. Social democracy has also been consulted in committee, where we have tried to get all these people, all the experts, in order to tell us what was up and down in this. There was an amendment which actually succeeded in the Socialists that we wanted to keep disabled people out of it, and that was taken, but there are still a great many people who are going to have huge problems. We have even recently tried to write a letter to the chairman of the Danish Parliament and to the chairman of the Employment Committee, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, to postpone the matter because it turns out that there is no reason to do so. Unfortunately, however, it did not succeed either. So I just have to look around the Chamber, I have to look at all those who are listening to this and say: unfortunately we can't do any more. Now there is only one way, and that is a great prayer to everyone, especially to the Danish People's Party, to all those sitting in the Chamber today, to all the good colleagues of the Danish People's Party who come back later when we are going to vote, to all those who had written something else in the election stone on DR, to all those who have been out saying many of these things, where we can find a sea of quotes, to all of you: Show now what you have said. And remember, we are in such a situation that just one from the Danish People's Party will vote against this, and then the motion will be rejected, and then it will be gone. So that's today, in the Danish People's Party, you as an individualist, you as a single politician from the Danish People's Party, and that's why I'm looking around all those who sit here today can make a huge difference, and it's today that you can show why so many people believed in the Danish People's Party, and I'll look forward to that. But I know the Danish People's Party so well that I don't think it's gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317104823	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317104829	I just want to start by thanking Mr. Simpson. Leif Lahn Jensen, thank you for all the times, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen mentions my name. I feel so flattered. I have never seen a rapporteur stand up and say my name so many times. You say that whoever you discipline loves, so that must be what it's all about in this case, I think. Then I have a relevant question: the Socialists say that there is no reason to vote in favour of the bill on the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. And then it is, of course, that we all have a fairly important knowledge that if you look at the group of spouses where both spouses are on cash benefits, you can see that 84 per cent. of them have a non-Western origin. Don't impress me, sir. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen, that there is therefore a group of people here for whom we can so much create financial incentives to ensure that they enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317104927	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317104928	I think that many in here and also the rapporteur know that I actually like the rapporteur. This is pure politics, because I am completely opposed to what the Danish People's Party and Mrs Marlene Harpsøe stand for in this case. In particular, I spend a lot of time on the Danish People's Party because they have just tried to make themselves a party for the weakest, and because every day I meet these people, also outside myself, who are so disappointed with the Danish People's Party; people who have just these benefits, people who expected a lot more from the Danish People's Party, and who, as such, are just getting a lynch to thank them for voting for the Danish People's Party. These are the people I meet, and it is about the people's situation that I am also trying to get an answer from the Danish People's Party. If you're sick, no matter where you're from, you can't get started just because money's taken from you. That is what I tried to describe in my rapporteur's speech. And no matter where people come from, whether they're women or men, it doesn't help take the money away from them and then think you'll get them started if they're sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105041	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105042	After all, the Socialists are calling themselves a working party, which is why I really think it should make very good sense that, in solidarity with all those who work in this way, we are also voting in favour of this bill, because what it is really about is saying that those who can work must work. And that is the motto I have heard from the Socialists over and over again. The Socialists also believe that financial incentives are working; otherwise education aid would not have been introduced and parents' instructions would not have been supported either. So I would like to say once again: please come forward and tell us as it is that you believe that economic incentives actually work. And that's why you should also vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105124	There is no direct indictment of Members. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105127	We are in favour of the economic incentives that work. And what we did when we were in government worked. This doesn't work because you can't start sick people by taking money from them. It simply cannot be done. And I cannot understand why the Danish People's Party cannot understand that a person who cannot hear does not get his hearing back by taking money from him or her. People who are sick do not get well by having their money taken away. That is the difference between the reforms we made and this. That is why I think it is so inhuman, and that is why I cannot understand why the Danish People's Party can agree to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105202	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105205	Thank you. Now, of course, we are reaching the day when a majority in the Folketing will ensure that there is a significant gain from going to work. We have witnessed an increase in the number of people on cash benefits over the last few years. There has been no response from the former Socialist Government to this. Now we want to make sure that there is actually a gain by going to work. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable that if you are a single parent with three children, you only have a prize of DKK 600. a month by going out and taking a job to 17,700 DKK. That's 30 kroner. a day. You haven't paid the bus ticket, you haven't joined the a-box yet. Does the rapporteur consider this to be a reasonable gain from going to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105259	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105300	I just have to say that I cannot understand why you are in favour of this proposal when you have that position. And I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen, that if he read the answer to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Minister of Finance, he would see that this is how I see here that compared to getting a gain by getting to work or getting less than 0 DKK. there are 14,000 today who will experience losing on it. There is when this bill comes into force. There are 37,000 who will make less than 1,000 kroner. by going to work, and so is when that bill comes into force. That means that this bill does not work in relation to what Mr. Hans Andersen and as Left and as Prime Minister and as Danish People's Party will. It doesn't work. They're figures from the finance minister. And that's why I just don't understand this argument. I can also say very briefly that one of the main reasons why there were so many people on cash benefits was that in 2010 the Left and the Danish People's Party made it possible for the benefit period to go from 4 to 2 years. After all, that means a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105407	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105409	Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Leif Lahn Jensen read the full answer, he would see that in the answer it says that those we are talking about here and now, the recipients of cash benefits, will now increase their winnings from DKK 1,500. on average a month by going to work to 3,000 kroner. per month by going to work when we implement the cash benefits ceiling. That's a noticeable gain. That is the essence of the answer, because this is about the first part of our job reform. The second part is, in fact, the part where we put the tax down for the people who are at work. But that's what we're gonna do. So the answer is very clear that with the ceiling on cash benefits there is now a gain by taking a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105450	This is interesting. In other words, Mr. Hans Andersen says that if we are to succeed and work is to be worthwhile, we must also introduce job reform 2. This means getting the Danish People's Party to agree to allow these services to go down and pay tax relief. Otherwise, it won't work. In other words, I have to look at the Danish People's Party and say: Is the Danish People's Party ready to cut back on disabled people, sick people, all these people and then give the money for tax cuts? Well, that's it, sir. Hans Andersen now says is the whole essence of it. I think it's gonna be pretty interesting to hear what DF says about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105524	Then it's Mrs. Britt Bager, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105526	Thank you. I understand, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is not in favour of this proposal and that he does not believe that it solves anything. It is always easy to criticize the policies of others. It is much harder to come up with solutions yourself, and I have not heard a single offer of a solution from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. So I would like to know: what do the Socialists think is the reason why the number of recipients of cash benefits has only increased in recent years, and what is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's solution to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105602	Mrs Britt Bager could have been here listening to the first reading and Mrs Britt Bager could have looked at what we did when we were in government; she could have just looked at the cash aid reform we were doing at the time. The difference between the reform and what you're doing now is that if you were sick, you'd have to get well. If you had any problems with dyslexia or anything else, those barriers had to be removed. We removed people's barriers to get started. In other words, we were interested in people, and together with them we made them ready for work. We didn't take money from the activity, we didn't take money from those who were sick and all those things. We helped those people who had problems and who had some barriers, and that's what we still think we should do. That's why we're against this. According to all the studies and according to this answer from the Minister of Finance, everyone knows that this is not something I am making up, it is the rapporteur's own Finance Minister who brings it up that it has no effect. But what we did when we were in government was effective. I just think that the rapporteur should go and read it, because practically all the results show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105708	Mrs. Britt Bager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105710	But now that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says it has worked, can you just explain to me quite simply why the number of cash benefits has increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105718	You don't say "you." Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105720	I can do that. I just did, so it's easy to remember. I just told sir. Hans Andersen. This is because Mrs Britt Bager's predecessors were here before the Danish People's Party made a cash benefit reform in which they halved the benefit period from 4 to 2 years. If it is 4 years on cash benefits and you then just remove half, so it is only 2 years, then it is clear that there will be more on cash benefits. You can ask me this again, because now I remember the answer. It's much easier if I get the same question several times, because then I can just dig out the answer. But otherwise we can also talk and try to nuance it a little, because then everything else is even more fun.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105759	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105804	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a committed speech. I think that's nice, there's far too little of that in this Parliament hall. I've heard sir. Leif Lahn Jensen tells about Lonnie several times. Unfortunately, I have not met her myself or watched the television broadcast in question, but I understand from the rapporteur that she has been on cash assistance for 25 years and has been on work tests quite a few times. And it is true that in the 25 years, the Social Democratic Party has had the power of government for about half the years, and the rest of us have had it for about the second half of the years. Isn't Lonnie's problem different? Isn't the problem that she hasn't gotten an early retirement or, alternatively, has come into work much earlier? And isn't it really something quite different from Lonnie that we should be talking about here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105859	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317105900	That is actually a very good question and I fully agree. When I say we, I mean both the Left Governments that have been and the Socialist-led governments. They haven't done it well enough over the ages, because these people have been created who don't think it's very cool to sit at home and have no options. That is precisely why we did the cash aid reform in 2013-14, together with the Left and the Danish People's Party. It was to give these people a chance. That's why we did it, because we could see that these people had huge problems. Yeah, there are some people out there who aren't supposed to be on cash benefits. That is where we are, and we are all responsible for this because we have made these reforms together. But then it's just that I'm asking, can't you turn it around? Can't everyone who's serious about this just say stop today so we can clean things up together? When there are no more of these sick people on cash benefits, you can introduce this if you want. Because right now you're hitting all these people. That is the difference between the policy of the Left and that of the Danish People's Party and my policy, namely that of hitting the sick people. And we didn't when we had the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110005	It is true that a committed debate is a good thing, but that is why we must stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110012	Yeah, yeah, it's okay, but, well, Lonnie's still away on cash, despite the moves that were taken by sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's government, which was a government until not so long ago, is as if some people have forgotten. So she's still away on cash benefits. How about we make a better distinction and say: should we not have a look at our entire early retirement system, whether there are perhaps some who are too difficult to get into it, and perhaps some on the other side who are staying in it too long? Then it is one debate and then we take the whole area of cash aid as another debate. I think that, as a representative of a party that calls itself a working party, one agrees that one should be a working party and not a working non-party, so that we also reward those who get up early every morning and go to work and so that one can see that it actually pays off financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110111	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110112	I would like to express my regret to the President of the Danish Parliament if I get a little too eager, but this is just a matter that really, really means a lot to me. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, that the whole thing of constantly looking at people not going through all this, that they are going on early retirement more quickly or not going through all these courses, we have actually just done with the Minister of Employment. I also keep talking to the Minister for Employment about this, because I have no doubt that the Minister for Employment has the same desire in this area as I do. We'll do it on a regular basis. But now it's just that I'm saying, why don't we make this work first? Afterwards, if you can get a majority for it, you can cut the benefits to these people, even if they are ill and all sorts of other things. Because the problem is that 77 percent. Of all the people who are hit by this ceiling are people who are sick. These are people who can't get started. If it were just the job preparation, it was only 5,000 people involved, but then you wouldn't be able to give 18 kroner either. In tax relief every month to people, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110218	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110219	Thank you. I want to stay on the same track because it's kind of funny. The Flex-job and early retirement reform was introduced under the then Socialist-led government, which is why it sounds rather hollow that in his rapporteur's speech the rapporteur is talking about a few examples of people who should not be on cash aid at all, but should have received a different kind of help, which the rapporteur's party has helped prevent them from getting. Then the rapporteur stands and says that we must now clear this up, as the Social Democrats have done in the past. Does the rapporteur have no part whatsoever in the fact that some people are getting stuck in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110312	I just think it sounds really hollow that there is a questioner here who feels so sorry for those people and who says that, therefore, they did not go along with the early retirement reform. Okay, that's fair enough. But at the same time, you vote to take money from them. Listen, I don't understand. It is okay to have this concern for these people, I understand that, but I do not understand that you can have that concern while at the same time saying that you want to take money away from them. How can you feel? Then why don't you turn it around? Why do all of us who are involved in this conciliation not agree to clean this up and make sure that it is going right in relation to the reform and what we have done? Then you can do the other thing afterwards. It is quite unreasonable to say that you feel sorry for them, but that you are still taking money from them. So I think that the Danish People's Party owes an explanation for this from the platform. I would therefore like the questioner to tell us about his own position on this, and the questioner is also welcome as a privateist. I can then ask the questioner what she thinks about this, because I think it is absolutely reprehensible to have that position and I simply do not understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110415	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110416	Well, we're focused on this, and we're also talking to the government that before October we'll have a look at how we can help these people. But something quite different is the large group of people where both husband and wife are on early retirement. We have heard over and over again that in 84 per cent. in cases where both spouses are on early retirement, these are non-western immigrants. And we have also seen in a programme that male non-western immigrants refuse their wives to go to work. So I just have the simple question for the rapporteur: do you have to be available for the labour market to be able to receive cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110454	I simply do not understand why it is not turned back. I simply do not understand why it should not be cleaned up before taking money from them. That's totally wrong. It is fine that you want to clean it up, but I have not had any explanation as to why you do not turn it around. Of course, people have to be available. We've always said that. I have heard Mr Mette Frederiksen, former Minister for Employment, say that there must be right and duty. Everyone has to work if they can. Of course they must, but if they cannot, then we are not as Danish People's Party supporters of taking money from them and making them poor. We just don't agree with the Danish People's Party, and that's fair enough. That is also why I stand here again and again to tell the voters where they have the Danish People's Party. I just think it's clear, and I'm actually happy somewhere that you can see what DF stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110537	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110540	The essence of this debate is basically what kind of level we think is acceptable to cash benefits. That is the essence of this debate. Sometimes one gets the impression that the level of cash assistance is something that has come from our Lord and is not at all under discussion, but it is, like everything else, an expression of political priority. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks that it is too low a level when a single recipient of cash benefits with two children, following the introduction of this ceiling, is being paid DKK 17,400.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110624	I think it is very, very wrong to start going into all sorts of figures... that's not what it's all about... but I'm gonna do it anyway. It is true that 17,400 kroner is being paid, but that, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen forgets that it is before the housing costs are paid. I have in fact been looking at Copenhagen to see what is possible to get a home. In the situation we have here, with children, you can, without it being frizz, get a home of 5,500 DKK. It's a 30-year wait, isn't it? Otherwise, you have to pay 8,000 to 10.000 kroner. and, for some, 12,000 kroner, and if you draw 10,000 kroner. from 17,400 kroner, you're down to 7,400 kroner. For yourself. But I'm not interested in talking numbers. I know that Joachim B. Olsen would rather talk numbers, and now I have given an answer to it with the numbers. Joachim B. Olsen would like to talk numbers; I would rather ask why it is so important to hit so many people: poor and sick, all those who have no options. Why is this so important, especially when one can see from the Minister for Finance's reply that it has no effect at all? I just don't understand. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen is both financially trained and everything else. I don't understand why he can't read these numbers when an ordinary docker can. Why can't sir? Joachim B. Olsen, right? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110740	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110741	I have to say, I think this is pretty amazing. I mean, what we're talking about is what the level should be for cash benefits. That's what this is about. And that's where I just find out that you're paid $1,200. That is what people in the real world have to live on, and that is what goes into their account every month. I can also inform you that there are more than 850,000 rentals in Denmark for a rent of less than DKK 7,000. And it may be that you cannot live right in the middle of Copenhagen, but I do not think that is a human right either. But it doesn't really matter. I would just like the rapporteur to address what is the essence of the discussion, namely the level of cash benefits. Is it an acceptable level that our lower safety net means that a single mother on cash benefits with two children gets paid 17,400 DKK.? The rapporteur must be able to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110840	Now, sir, he's forgetting. Joachim B. Olsen again to deduct housing expenses and all that stuff. He's using those high numbers, and that's always the way it is, of course. You might also ask the other way: Is it also reasonable that 670 married couples lose 162,000 DKK because of the 225-hour rule? per year, one cash benefit? And some of these people are some of the deaf people I was talking about before who don't have the opportunity to get to work. Is that fair? Sir. Joachim B. Olsen may think so, but I am surprised that the Danish People's Party also thinks so. Is that fair? I don't think that's fair. And in relation to many of the things I hear here and to all the examples, Lonnie and all the others, all the small amounts, I would say that I do not think I can point to a single one in here who could live for that money. Then how do you think they can?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110929	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317110931	Thank you. I have to warn the rapporteur that the rapporteur is increasingly reminding of his former party chairman Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt: one is being asked and the rapporteur responds categorically to something else. The rapporteur said earlier in the debate that he accused the unemployment benefit reform that has been carried out himself of increasing the number of cash benefits recipients. You will see that if you read the transcription of the debate so far. Is the rapporteur even aware that studies by both Kraka and the Workers' Association's Employment Council are two bodies which are normally close to the Danish Social Democratic Party in fact proving that the number of cash benefits recipients falls when the people on cash benefits approach the expiry period?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111014	I can say that I think I am answering everything I can answer at all. The difference between me and the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and the Left is that I dare to take the stand. I look forward to them doing the same. But I dare. And I would say that the reason we did the cash benefits reform in 2013-14 was because we could see that there were problems. Well, that's kind of the same thing as mr. Jan E. Jørgensen pointed out that too many people were on passive support; too many people were not part of the working community; too many people were sitting out there and would much rather be in work and who we had to help in work. That's a big problem. And we did something about that. Now it is only 2-3 years ago, but after all it has had its effect. But the ceiling that was created back in the '00s had even 10 years after no effect. And that's what you're trying to do now. You copy a law that for 10 years had no effect, and that is what I cannot understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111113	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111114	The rapporteur could try to imagine that I am one of the former colleagues down at Aarhus Harbour.I understand that this is where the truth is told between real men who have the courage to stand by their opinions.We could then imagine that the Parliament Hall is Aarhus Harbour, and that as a member of the rapporteur's trade union I ask: Truster, do you think that because I have to use the indictment form that there should be a marked difference between working and not working, and is the shop steward aware that what the government is trying to use the proceeds from the cash aid ceiling to lower the tax for people with the lowest incomes? What, then, will the shop steward answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111151	I'm gonna have to deal with the fact that I'm here, because there would be a lot of calls with that bell if I were to feel like I was talking to my dock worker friends. But there is a difference between being at work today and being there; there is a huge difference. And there was a greater difference under the Social Democratic led government than at the time Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen formed the government last. There the Socialists have simply made a difference. I have also said this to my good friends at Aarhus Harbour, and I know that they understand it. They know that very well. And I'd love to take my good friend, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt down there so we can talk to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111229	Thank you. And then I do not think you have to say to a shop steward for the dock workers that I do not think that is necessary, even in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111255	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur not agree that this will only come into force until October and that the government, together with the municipalities, will have a little six months to clear out who might now be misplaced in this cash assistance system, such as Lonnie? can get out and find its proper place? Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111320	I fully agree with that, but now I have just been in this system and been a labour market rapporteur for so many years, that I have to respect the questioner and not know exactly what the experience is from there, and I think the Minister and others are doing that too, so I can say that this is not just something that is being changed. That is why I would very much like us to make the cash aid reform we made together work first. There were so many good effects in it. The Left and the Danish People's Party actually praised it, because they were also involved in the cash aid reform. So why don't we just let it work first? I have no doubt that when it works and the reforms we have made together work and when the early retirement reform, in which I also think it was very good, works, we help many of those people. And that is why I earnestly ask the Danish People's Party to give time instead of taking money from these people now. It doesn't work, and we've seen plenty of answers that show that it doesn't. I'd rather help these people in a good and proper way, but apparently the Danish People's Party doesn't have time to wait for that. And believe me, six months is not enough. This is a heavy system; it's not that simple. But it is not the same as not doing anything about it, and that is why we started it when we were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111431	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111432	I also have another question: the rent is different, depending on whether you live in the centre of Copenhagen or in the countryside, and does the rapporteur not agree with the rent you pay that you will have more available if you choose to move to a place where you have a lower rent?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111453	Yes, but I also have to say that one has to look at how many general homes there are actually around the country for a rent of less than 5,000 DKK. And compared to the homes that the people you take money from can afford to live in, there are only 111 in the capital. There are of course some on Lolland and elsewhere, but does Mrs Pernille Bendixen and the Danish People's Party ask those people from the capital who lose a lot of money here and who cannot afford the expensive housing inside Copenhagen to move to Lolland or North Jutland, or what do I know? Does the rapporteur ask them to do so? Because they have to when they can't get homes in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111532	Then there are no more brief comments. This is Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317111558	It is best for both the individual citizen and society that you are in work and that you can support yourself and your family. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party are concerned that if you are a cash recipient, you can get out and get a real job and become self-supporting. We believe that the ceiling on cash benefits can contribute to this. There is an increasing number of cash benefits recipients. We've had a cash aid ceiling in the past. It was then abolished by the S-R-SF government, and now we are reintroducing it. It was abolished after the 2011 elections and we have seen since then that the number of cash benefits recipients is increasing. We do not believe in the Danish People's Party that it is an end in itself to be on cash aid. On the contrary, if you are on cash aid and the forecast is that you can get to work at some point, then they must do all they can to ensure that the people concerned also get to work. But we are very concerned that it should not be more economically advantageous to be on cash rather than on work. If you can work, then you have to work and not be supported by the public, and that is one of the things that is crucial for us in the Danish People's Party. Those who are the weakest are part of a process of resource development and are not covered by the ceiling on cash benefits. Similarly, we have chosen to exempt people from the ceiling on cash benefits if they live in a special residence designated by the municipality and therefore also receive a particularly high housing subsidy. Similarly, people are exempted from the ceiling if they have found a suitable accommodation and therefore receive a particularly high level of housing support on the basis of that particular. There has been a lot of debate about the disabled and the sick. Sometimes you can get that picture, especially when you talk about people with disabilities on cash benefits... that's at least the first picture I got in my head when I heard about people with disabilities on cash benefits... that there's a person attached to a wheelchair and can't do anything. And there's what I was thinking, it's not a citizen who's supposed to be on cash benefits. It is a mistake, then, that there are people on cash benefits who should be tied to a wheelchair without the possibility of doing so, you might say, to get around or move and who have no ability to work. There it was, of course, that I was aware that yes, there are no people to be placed on cash benefits if they have a non-existent working capacity or a working capacity that is so limited that they cannot take a job. And so it must be. If you are in any way so ill or disabled that you cannot take a job, you should not take a job either. I would also like to say that this has largely been a debate on local authorities' practices in this area. It is clear to us in the Danish People's Party that there appear to be some places in the country where we do not follow the practice that we have set in here in the Folketing. I just have to say that I believe that in those situations where there may be municipalities that are more or less deliberately putting people on cash aid, which should not actually be on cash aid, this is actually totally unacceptable. That is why I also expect the government to be in the working clothes right now and here, and also in the coming months and years in relation to this group of people. Because it is not fair that, if you are disabled or ill and on cash benefits and are not able to work at all, you should be in the cash benefits system. That is why it is really, really important that the government is now in the working clothes. We have this expectation in order to ensure that the municipalities actually comply with what has been adopted here in the Danish Parliament. I expect that the government, together with the municipalities, will now check these cases and correct them, so that if there are actually people who cannot work and who are on cash benefits, they will be placed on some other benefits. Because you should not, and I am not saying, be in the cash aid system if you cannot be at all available for the labour market. And if there is no prognosis that you can get to work, you should not be in the cash benefits system. The Danish People's Party and I have tried to raise a debate about people of non-Western origin who are in the cash aid system. Then there are some of the parties in the Folketing who have no interest in us raising a debate on this kind of thing. The Socialists, it may be said, speak so round when it is that we want to have this group of cash aid recipients on the agenda. And in the Danish People's Party we just have to say that you can look at the number of e.g. spouses, where both parties are on cash benefits. Then there's 84%. in the category of non-Western origin. We just have to say that then we have a task here that we have to take on. And then there is no point in just talking and talking like the Socialists, but really doing nothing about it. And it's no use not taking responsibility for this group. We have also recently seen several documentary broadcasts on TV 2 which include: show how imams sit in mosques and encourage women not to take a job, for then they can work both with men, what a joke said, and they may also come into contact with pork or the like. The Danish People's Party simply has to say that if it is the case that some people deliberately do not take on a job, for example. For religious reasons, they should not be in the cash assistance system at all. I just have to say that it is cross-border that the Socialists do not consider that there can therefore be a group here for whom taking a job is something that is avoided. It's something you do everything you can to avoid. I have also noticed that the Socialists think it is a very good idea that we are now apparently about to have basic integration training for refugees. That is why we really are in favour of wage dumping. This is something that makes it possible, at least in relation to the possibility of obtaining a job as a cash benefit recipient, to do something somewhat less. I wish I could get an explanation for that. Then again there are those who can work and who have to work. For this is the motto which the Socialists repeatedly hear, namely that those who can work must work and that it is solidarity with the welfare society. We in the Danish People's Party fully share that view. We share the view that those who can work must work. That is why it is a good thing that we have a ceiling on cash aid, which creates the economic incentives that are needed to ensure that those who can work and now I say it again, because my words are distorted; I often hear that down here in the Parliamentary Chamber have to work. They must have financial incentives to take on a job. I really think that is a very principle of solidarity. There are times when we talk about solidarity. I think it is good old-fashioned social democratic policy to actually support a ceiling on cash aid. We have been doing this in the Danish People's Party ever since we introduced it back in the '00s. It was then rejected, one might say, by a red majority when they came to power in 2011. And now we're gonna reinstate it. We are in favour of this and are very much in favour of having a welfare society, but we also need to take care of it. That is why I have to say that if you can work, you have to work. If you are so ill and disabled that you cannot work, then you should not work. Then you are simply planted on a wrong performance, at least if you are on cash benefits. That is why, of course, we also expect the government, together with the municipalities, to be in the working clothes and to ensure that there is tidying up until 1 October. If there are people who are not able to work, they should not be on cash benefits, but instead they should be on the right benefits. Then I will not deny anything in relation to this debate in general and to those who can work. I would say that there is also some joy in having a job. Well, there's a joy in this, that you can be self-supporting and that you come out and have a network both professionally and socially and have some challenges there. This means a great deal, and it also means something in relation to the children you may have, for which you then have the opportunity to be an example; you can show that it is worthwhile to be at work, because we must also ensure that we break the social heritage. And we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is also an important way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112611	Thank you to the rapporteur. There have now been so many for a brief comment that I shall close the line. I hope that we can reach everyone within the time available. The first is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112621	It is now the third reading, and I believe that the views are well known. That is why I would like to ask something a little different from what has so far been the subject of the debate. I would like to ask what has been said, after all, that the purpose of this is to obtain revenue for tax reform in the autumn, with a view to reducing taxes on those with the lowest incomes. I heard the other day the chairman of the Danish People's Party on television announce that the Danish People's Party's policy is that no one should pay lower taxes, because that is not possible. I would therefore just like to ask at the third reading of this proposal, which appears to be being implemented with the aim of obtaining such revenue, whether there has been an agreement that the money should go to the cashier who has filled so much in the debate here or whether there is not. After all, the Danish People's Party cannot, on the one hand, introduce a ceiling on cash aid, with the aim of obtaining revenue for tax relief and, on the other hand, marching around the world and saying that it is not at all in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112715	I think sir... Morten Østergaard mixes some different things together. I would just like to say that the cash benefits agreement we have drawn up on the cash benefits ceiling, the 225-hour rule, etc., states that the proceeds must go to tax for those who earn the very least in this country, i.e. for those with the very low wages. Now it is the case that we in the Danish People's Party, when we make an agreement, also keep it. So that is what I can at least confirm on the basis of the agreement we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112746	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112749	That is just why it is so amazing that when the chairman of the Danish People's Party is on tour outside Christiansborg's thick walls, he announces that you are not in favour of it at all. It would be natural to stand by the policy that is being put to the vote here. I personally think that you should think very carefully before giving a Dane a tax relief of DKK 20-40. Every month marches into the children's room of the families that have the very least to find the funding for it. I would very much like to help make tax reforms, but I do not think that we should find the funding from those who have the very least. I honestly do not understand that this is the policy of the Danish People's Party, but I understand that the President will certainly not stand by it when he appears in the media and outside Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112829	I'd like to say now that if there's anything, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does as party chairman, it is to stand by our policy. I am, in fact, doing the same today here from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112840	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112843	I think there is a lot that is quite black here, but what I find quite interesting is that the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party expects and demands of the government that it was quite soon that it was within six months? Now I am looking over at the Minister, because the Minister can expect to have a sea of questions and be called in consultation and everything else, because we really want to check on what has been agreed within that. Because that is something fairly new, and we are part of the conciliation circle ourselves, so I think that is quite interesting, and I would very much like to hear something about that. I also expect the Minister to take the floor and explain what is planned for this. I just have to ask the rapporteur: if it turns out that in six months' time, after this has entered into force, there has been no tidying up, will the Danish People's Party go out and withdraw its support for the proposal? Otherwise, you do the exact opposite of what you actually say on the platform, and what you do as Mr. Morten Østergaard also mentioned saying outside the walls. You pull it back if it's not cleaned up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317112949	Now it is the case that we have confidence in the government, and so we have agreed with the agreement we made on the ceiling for cash benefits that the government and the Minister of Employment are actually making contact with the municipalities in order to get this right. So that is not something new in relation to today's debate, because that is what we agreed back in November.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113020	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113021	My question is quite simple: if it turns out that in six months' time, that is to say after this has come into force, some people are on cash aid that should not be and they have failed to clean up, will they withdraw the support for the bill? If you don't, this is just a big bluff. I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113041	Nobody's bluffing here. I have to say. The only bluff that can be said to be made is when the Social Democrats repeatedly try to derail the debate and try not to relate to the fact that there are actually very many recipients of social assistance who have a non-Western origin. And I just have to say that the Socialists have failed in that debate. I am well aware that there are both cash aid recipients of Danish ethnic origin, if you can call it that, and then people of non-Western origin... we have many categories... but in relation to the over-representation of people of non-Western origin on cash aid, I just have to say that I would like the Socialists to come up with something relevant that could be used in this debate to ensure that there were also more in the group that entered the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113134	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113138	I am very concerned that we must be sure that a matter is fully resolved before we finally vote on it. Therefore, I just want to make sure that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has read the answer to the Financial Committee's question 76 and that it is the case that, when the agreement on the cash aid ceiling was concluded, the Danish People's Party was aware that the number of people who had 0 DKK. of taking a job before the cash benefits ceiling was introduced was 14,000, and the figure is also 14,000 when the cash benefits ceiling is introduced. In other words, there is essentially no effect of that which, among other things. has been the main argument of the President of the Left, the current Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113238	You want me to just answer? Yes, thank you) I was not given the floor directly by the President, so I wondered if I might reply. I have, of course, read the answer in question, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht is referring to. The only thing I am aware of is that there is a gain in taking a job for a great many, and that is also what matters to the Danish People's Party's policy. We believe that it should never be the case that if you are a cash aid recipient and the forecast is that you can get to work, then you should feel that there is a gain by taking that job. We think this is really, really important. This is among other things. also, out of respect for those who go to work every day, have ordinary work and who work hard to earn a living.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113325	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113326	That was an answer that made no sense at all. So let's try to ask something else in addition to that, as Mr. Morten Østergaard asked me a few minutes ago. Clearly, there is a link between tax reform, job reform II, but Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said to Berlingske on Wednesday last week: 'Therefore it would have been a deed to talk about tax cuts this spring, and I think it will be a deed in the autumn too, I would like to make a statement now. Does this mean that the revenue that comes out of the cash aid ceiling of the legislative proposal we are adopting here is not something that is reflected in tax cuts? It's like that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl really says to Berlingske.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113417	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113419	That's what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht is out in right now, is just political teasing. In other words, we have made an agreement on the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule etc., and we have agreed that the proceeds of the agreement in question should go to tax relief for those people here in Denmark who have the lowest wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113442	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113447	I simply do not know what kind of world Mrs Marlene Harpsøe is living in. Three out of four people in Denmark who are on cash benefits are ill. It is serious mental illness, or it is physical illness, some are cancer-stricken. Doctors have estimated that they cannot work. The municipality has estimated that they cannot work. Those people are losing thousands of kroner now because of the Danish People's Party. The one hit hardest by this so-called cash aid ceiling is the single mother with two children. It may well be that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe and the Danish People's Party do not think it should be the case that there are sick people who are on cash benefits, but three out of four cash benefits recipients in Denmark are ill. And the reason they don't work is because they can't work. They're losing thousands of dollars. Has Mrs Marlene Harpsøe ever heard of a severe depression that disappeared because of making her who had it poorer, or of a cancer that disappeared because of taking thousands of dollars a month from the patient?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113608	Thank you. There is access to a new question. The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113613	I just think you should keep your tongue in your mouth right here. Thus, if it is that the municipality or the job centre has estimated that you are entitled to cash benefits, then it is because they have also also estimated that the forecast is and it is whether the forecast is that you can get to work in 3 months' time, or it takes a little longer to get to work. Then we are well aware that there is a challenge to local authorities' practice. It is difficult to say at this stage how big the challenge is, but we know that there is a challenge. That is why, of course, we have told the Minister that we expect to contact the municipalities and ensure that if there are people who are sick or disabled, who are on cash benefits and who have no prospect of getting a job, they should not be on cash benefits. It is incredibly important to say, because if it is, the municipalities in some way speculate in putting sick or disabled people who cannot take care of a job on cash aid, then we just have to say on the part of the Danish People's Party that this is unacceptable. And then it is clear that we just have to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113726	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113727	Thank you, I would like to say to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. The Danish People's Party has now fully acknowledged from the platform that there are people who are sick, who are on cash benefits and who are so ill that they cannot work. The doctor has assessed that they cannot work and the municipality has assessed that they cannot work. Because of the Danish People's Party you now take thousands of crowns from those people. I have heard Marlene Harpsøe say over and over again that it is about financial incentives that if you take the money from people, they will find a job. I would like an answer to the question I asked before: has Mrs Marlene Harpsøe ever heard of a severe depression that disappeared because it made it harder for the patient to pay the rent? And why has the Danish People's Party not ensured that no sick people who cannot work become poorer as a result of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113823	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113824	Now it is the case that in relation to, for example, cash benefit recipients go in and assess people's ability to work. And there is a very big difference between what you have of, for example. disability, or whatever it is for a disease or social situation that one is challenged by. There is a very big difference in that. As a starting point, however, we have said from the point of view of the Danish Parliament that we place the responsibility for assessing the individual to the municipalities, for example. to the job centres, because we cannot do that here in the Folketing. However, we have created a framework for assessing individual cases. Then we are well aware that there are some municipalities that have a practice where it is that we do not entirely agree with the way they do it, and we then take action against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113908	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317113910	Thank you. Yesterday, when I was going to sleep, I was thinking about the vote today, and I was thinking about the power over the lives of other people that we who are sitting in here have, especially when we adopt legislation which in this way interferes with the economy of some vulnerable families and actually takes thousands of dollars out of our pockets, among other things. Single mothers. I really hope that the rapporteur and all the others also think about that responsibility today, i.e. the responsibility for the consequences for each of the 35 000 children who live in families affected by this, the responsibility for the sick and the disabled who are affected, the responsibility for the children who are going to experience being put on the streets and not knowing where to sleep the next night. So my question is really: was the rapporteur also thinking about this when the rapporteur was going to sleep last night, or is this just such a normal day on the job for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114010	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114011	Well, I don't think it's appropriate that I come up with what I was doing or thinking when I was under my duvet last night. I do not think that is appropriate. But I would say that there must therefore be a gain by taking a job, and we are well aware of it with consequences. Much was said about the consequences of Mr. Pelle Dragsted's side, and I would say that, in relation to the very consequences, we can see that we have a welfare society that is unique and that we must take care of, which we must protect. And we do that in the Danish People's Party, we protect it. That is why we also say that if you have a working capacity, you can work, then you have to work. And that is why it is good to create some financial incentives so that those who can work also get a benefit by actually taking a job. We think that's really good. This will be good both for the individual and for our welfare societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114104	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114105	I have said this before, but I think something is happening with the Danish People's Party. What kind of politics talk is it to talk about defending our welfare society by tearing away some of the foundations for it? An important part of our welfare society is that when we are hit by unemployment, and we do almost all of us in the course of a life, there is a safety net that grabs us, and then our children should not experience being put on the street. Surely the welfare society is not defended by taking the important social security from the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114142	I really do not disagree with this because it is good that we have a social safety net, because that is precisely what we are protecting in the Danish People's Party. We are defending the welfare society and the social safety net, where among other things: cash benefits are an option. But we also cherish the individual Dane, and there we have to say that there are very, very many Danes who go to work every day, who work hard at it, and who can also have difficulty in getting the economy to hang together. It may be that you can't afford the expensive flight suit for the little one every year, that you might have to buy something on the Blue Avis website or something like that. Danes also feel the same way, including those who have a job. So I think it is a good thing for that group too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114227	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114229	Thank you. If you can work, you have to work, I totally agree with that. The question to the rapporteur is: can you work when you are ill? We should not distort it, but we should also stick to what is being said about the ceiling on cash benefits. For this has some very concrete consequences for many thousands of people. What exactly will the rapporteur do for the many thousands who are on cash benefits but who are there because they are ill? Because there are mentally ill and there are people who have cancer. What exactly will the rapporteur do for these thousands of people who cannot work but who are on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114323	They're asking if the sick can work. I would like to say that there is a great difference between diseases, that is, what is wrong and whether you can then work with the disease you have. So that means that you can have a disease and then have a working capacity. I also think it is important to hold on to that. But it is also clear that it may be that you are in a situation where you are so ill that you cannot take a job and that there is no prospect whatsoever that you can take a job, and so we have also said that to the Minister for Employment is an area in which we must be sure that the municipalities comply with the applicable legislation as there is. Because it doesn't work out that you might just sit and speculate on some other things for the sake of the municipality's overall economy or the like. But there it is really, really important that we do the best we can for our citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114418	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114419	But it may be that you are so ill that you cannot get a job, and it may also be • and it is actually the case for many thousands of people that you are placed on cash benefits for several years without being able to get a job. So I would like to ask again quite specifically without passing the monkey on to the municipalities: what will the rapporteur do for those people who cannot work because they are too sick to get a job and who are placed on cash benefits for years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114452	Now it is the case that there are more possibilities in this legislation if, for example, you do. is too sick to work, etc., and in any case one's case has to be submitted to what is called the rehabilitation team, which then has to decide whether to have an early retirement pension or to have a flexible job, or maybe you should actually be in a process of resource development. Because there we can also say that we are pulling out the plug in relation to the person in relation to saying that they have to be available for the labour market, and that is why resource flows are, in fact, a very good opportunity. And we also want to make sure that the municipalities live up to that, that is, if it is that there are citizens who are too sick to work and they have no prospect of working, then they should not be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114535	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114539	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Marlene Harpsøe a question about the municipality where Mrs Marlene Harpsøe is herself Vice-President of the Employment Committee. Denmark's Radio has asked both CEPOS and AE to calculate what the consequences are for Heidi Rasmussen, who is the single mother of two children, if this new cash aid ceiling is introduced and both have arrived at the loss of DKK 2,536. a month, that is, about 30,000 kroner. a year. That means she's gonna lose her place, too. There are just no homes in Elsinore that are cheaper than the housing she lives in, and this has led the chairman of the Employment Committee to say that you cannot find housing in Elsinore, whose cash aid ceiling is being introduced, and that therefore you must introduce villains, containers and other options, because you have also been in the process of finding accommodation for refugees. What will Mrs Marlene Harpsøe do about it? And how does Mrs Marlene Harpsøe think of closing her eyes to these unreasonable consequences for Heidi Rasmussen in Elsinore?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114657	Well, now I cannot go straight into Mrs Heidi Rasmussen's specific case, and I would like that to be respected. But what I can say in relation to, among other things. For example, exposure and the risk of exposure are the following: in the municipality of Elsinore, to which Mrs Pernille Schnoor refers, the municipality has actually created a cooperation with the local community housing associations to ensure that people are avoided and prevented from being placed on the streets. And that is not even something you have done because you have known that there would be a ceiling on cash benefits that some believe will have an effect on the number of postponements, but you have done so because you have been able to see that there was a real need for enhanced cooperation on that point. And that is a tool, for example. has also from the municipality's side in order to prevent evictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114750	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114751	Two housing associations in Elsinore have said that it is not possible to find a residence for Heidi Rasmussen, whose ceiling on cash benefits is being introduced, and I hope that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, as Vice-President of the Employment Committee, will have time to explain how things are going for the citizens of Elsinore. And that means that if the ceiling on cash benefits is introduced, there are no homes to be found in Elsinore, and there are no houses to be found in the vicinity and not in the whole of North Zealand. I would like to know whether Mrs Marlene Harpsøe is concerned that this mother's children may have to move to shelter or elsewhere. Is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe thinking about these unfair and negative consequences for people such as mine? Heidi Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114842	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114844	When it is that there are figures that in the near future 14 000 families should be standing on the street because of the ceiling on cash aid, I would say that it is something drastic to go out and say it, and I do not think there is any reason for the extreme concern there. When you go in and look at what they are talking about in a report I think it's an SFI report about the reasons why people are exposed to their homes, you can at least see that this is not just about the economy. Well, there may be some who do not just have an overview of their overall private finances... some may have taken some really nasty quick loans and the like and have in this way owed themselves a debt... but it is not necessarily the ceiling of cash benefits in itself that causes you to be put out of your home. It may also be based on the fact that you may have an abuse or a mental illness or otherwise have difficulty understanding your social situation. But the municipalities have tools that they can use to prevent people from being put on the streets. Because it would be a real shame if it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114946	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317114950	Yeah, the municipalities do, and that's exactly what Elsinore makes use of. The municipalities, for example, have... the tool that they can create a container city or a trailer park is that the Denmark that Dansk Folkeparti wants to create? In other words, even before we have dealt with the proposal in the third reading, there are mayors who are out to say that this is the solution they have. In the figures used for the amount of availability when making the calculations, an average housing allowance of DKr 6,100 is calculated. Now I could only find the figures for how many homes for 5,000 kroner. There were 111 homes in Copenhagen. There are about 1 million Copenhageners. Well, how long waiting lists could you imagine there were for those homes? It is totally unrealistic to be able to find a housing market for such large groups of people as we are talking about here. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: if it is now the case that there are municipalities that start to build container parks or trailer parks, such as this. is talking about doing in the rapporteur's own municipality, the municipality of Elsinore, is it a state that the Danish People's Party is going to do something about, or is it going to continue completely headless just to implement this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115102	I have to say that it is quite obvious that the situation we are in, with a very high level of refugee pressure, among other things. Denmark, has made it difficult for municipalities to find accommodation. This is also something we work a lot with in the municipality of Elsinore, where I sit, just as many other municipalities do. I just want to say that there have been, among other things. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which has thus made it possible to exert a fairly high level of pressure on refugees, is also responsible. I think it's really, really bad that you're in this situation. But it must also be said that there are also people who are not necessarily on cash aid, but who have an ordinary job, who may find themselves in a situation where they have to find out how to prioritise their budget differently and whether they may have to find a cheaper housing because their current housing has now become too expensive. In other words, you can also face this situation if you have an ordinary job. This does not only apply to the recipients of cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115213	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115215	It sounds as if there is some recognition that we actually have a challenge in the housing market. I heard that in Roskilde 300 people were on the emergency list, and then 300 refugees are coming. I mean, in a situation where there is that pressure on our housing market, it seems to me completely headless that you go in and increase that pressure by taking housing benefits from people. That is what is happening here. We simply take the lower part of our housing market and give them less money between their hands, so the pressure gets even bigger, at a time when there are more people who need the cheap housing. Again, I would say to the Danish People's Party: There are bourgeois mayors in Elsinore and Solrød there are two places where both parties have shouted guard in arms and said: We do not have those homes. And in Elsinore, you talk about container parks. Is that really what the Danish People's Party wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115304	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115307	There is much that could have been resolved if, instead of trying headlessly to send a lot of refugees into the municipalities, some refugee villages had been set up. This is something we have put on the agenda with the Socialists. This is not something that we have achieved yet, but we are still working to ensure that it can be implemented. But it will, among other things. be a pretty good way to solve this housing problem. That being said, we must remember that if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. is on cash benefits, it's a temporary situation. As a starting point, it is a completely temporary situation to be on cash benefits. And then it is that you have to look at your economy every once in a while and ask yourself if there is a place where you might just get a cheaper telephone subscription or the like. That's the way it is. We're all facing it. However, I am aware that the recipients of cash benefits sometimes have a budget that they need to look at again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115407	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115412	Thank you. The more we, like, scrape the surface of this whole cash-aid-ceiling case, the more it crawls out with weak groups that are also being hit. Now we can see that it is also going to go beyond veterans who have been serving Denmark. They have been to Bosnia, Iraq and Afghanistan. Many suffer from post-traumatic stress and have scars on their souls. This group of veterans could lose up to $2,000. a month. Does the rapporteur really think that is fair for people who have served Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115450-2	It is certain that we must take very good care of our veterans. They have done a very unusual, great and important work for Denmark and also to maintain peace and order in this world. So, of course, we are very concerned about continuing to ensure that they can have an economy for which they can live. And if they come home and are ill, they must be able to receive compensation as soon as possible for what they may have been exposed to, and what their experiences have caused them, for example. in the form of ptsd. So we are very, very aware of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115533	Mrs. Anne Paulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115536	But that just doesn't change the fact that a lot of them now and here are going to lose a lot of money, to get a huge cut in their available amount. So I think it is a little light to lire that it is very much in the minds of the Danish People's Party. That is why I would like to ask you very specifically whether the rapporteur can guarantee that there will be another regime for these veterans, which will be completely unfairly affected. Can the rapporteur guarantee that there will be a system so that we ensure that these veterans are not in a situation where they lose up to DKr 2 000? a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115614	Regarding people on cash benefits, whether you are a veteran or whether you are in the cash assistance system for other reasons, I would say that the best thing we can do in this way is to give each individual the right help. That also applies to veterans. If you stand and judge a veteran not to have a working capacity that you can use, then it is clear that they should not be in the cash benefits system. Then you have to take the person and say that he should not be in the cash assistance system. Then he has to go to another service. That is really, really important to say, because I think it is important that we take good care of those veterans who have done such a great and important job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317115700	Thank you. Then we'll have a call for lunch. I'd say we can make a four or five after lunch. There are several more who have written themselves on, but to keep time it will be that way. We'll postpone the sitting until 2:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130011	The sitting shall resume. It is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Marlene Harpsøe, who is in the chair, and we shall proceed with the brief remarks. The first is Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130033	Thank you. The rapporteur keeps saying that if people are so ill that they cannot work, they should not be on cash benefits. Then they have to have a different service, for example. a sequence of resources or early retirement. We fully agree with that. After all, the rapporteur has voted against some amendments from the Enhedslisten which would ensure that these people were not affected, so the rapporteur must therefore answer how the rapporteur will move more than 75,000 recipients of cash aid, who are considered by the municipalities as non-job-ready. How does the rapporteur intend to move all these people to another service before 1 October? How will the rapporteur deal with this in the rapporteur's own municipality? There are 1,670 cash benefits in total, and 1.180 of them, i.e. 70 per cent, are estimated by the municipality to be non-job-ready people they cannot take a job. How does the rapporteur intend to move these people from cash aid to early retirement or to a resource-flow allowance? And what will it cost in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130145	Sir. Finn Sørensen refers to the group known as activity-ready cash aid recipients. You can either be a job-ready cash-aid recipient or an activity-ready cash-aid recipient. It is true that we in the Danish People's Party have voted against an amendment tabled by the Enhedslisten, which, very briefly, is intended to exempt all active cash aid recipients from the cash benefits ceiling. But now it is the case that one cannot necessarily just make it up in the way that Enhedslisten wants to do it. It is true that if you are judged to have cash assistance, whether you are ready for work or ready for activity, it is because there is the forecast that you will have a job at some point, and it may well be that it is either in the short term or more in the long term that you will get to work. But this thing about just excluding all the activities from the ceiling we can't really support in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130255	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130256	I can only note that the rapporteur cannot answer my question, and of that I can deduce what the rapporteur also admits, namely that there will be a lot of people who are sick who cannot work, who are affected by these rules. And then I can only say that the only consolation the rapporteur has for those people is a psalm in which every verse reads: it has to pay to work. And the chorus is: economic incentives. I have to say that when I hear Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, she does not sound like a person with feelings and compassion, but like a calculator sent by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130335	I'd like to say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that I think it is totally unacceptable that he is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and says that the Danish People's Party and I, as rapporteur, have no feelings. I think it is very, very serious that the debate should be dragged down to such a low point. And then I don't really want to discuss it with mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130356	Then we'll move on to the next one, and that's Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130403	Thank you. After all, we have discussed this over a number of times, and I think we have reached where I would like to put a question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because she has said several times that people who are sick should not be on cash aid. People who are sick, disabled and so on should not be affected by this either, and we will try to resolve this by October when the bill comes into force. Can the rapporteur not tell us what exactly the Danish People's Party will take of measures to ensure that people who should not be affected by this are not affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130437	As I have also told you in my rapporteur's speech and also said several times during this question-answer round, as there has been, we in the Danish People's Party have the view that the municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that if you are a citizen who has some very special challenges, it can, for example. If you are ill or disabled and have no prospect of getting a job or ever getting a job that allows you to take care of a job, then you should not be on cash benefits. That is why we have also said clearly and clearly that we did so during the negotiations, it is part of the agreement, and we are also telling the Minister for Employment today that the government now has a responsibility to make contact with the municipalities to ensure that the cases that may be where people have been placed on a totally wrong service are corrected, because I do not think that is fair. I do not think it is fair sometimes to have to listen to that, for example. is a person who is disabled and cannot take a job at all to be placed on cash benefits. That is not at all fair for that citizen, and that needs to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130548	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a second comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130551	I am glad that the rapporteur does not think that is fair. That is also why there is so much opposition among many of us in this Chamber today, because three out of four of those affected by the new ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are not ready for work. But am I to understand the rapporteur's answer that the Danish People's Party will do nothing but ask the municipalities to stand up, or am I to understand the fact that the Danish People's Party will use the position of the largest party on the right to use that power and influence to really do something about this? What is it the people out there can expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130627	Now Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, that three-quarters of those who receive cash benefits are not ready for work, and that is actually true, because then you are judged to be active, but that doesn't necessarily mean that this whole group doesn't have any ability to work. It is true, as we have sometimes heard, that there are some municipalities whose practice is unacceptable, I would say, in relation to what is the intention of the legislation, and we need to correct that. There it is the responsibility of the municipalities, and now, through the Minister of Employment, we are making sure that the municipalities actually fulfil their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130706	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130710	Something has happened with the Danish People's Party, my colleague Mr. Pelle Dragsted earlier in the debate. I think that Mrs Marlene Harpsøes's appearance here on the platform underlines this. In the past, the Danish People's Party was perhaps some kind of social conscience in the blue block, one had some kind of care for some of the people who were exposed. But today we can hear from the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party that there is no concept whatsoever of what it means to belong to that part of the Danish population who has the least to live for. When someone stands on the platform and says that you just have to move around the budget a little, or you just have to find a cheaper accommodation, even though the reality is that you live in the cheapest accommodation, it is possible to reclaim where you now have your residence, then they have fully demonstrated that they do not understand what it means to belong to the vulnerable in this population. Why has the Danish People's Party joined the upper class and the political elite in this case and left the vulnerable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130816	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130818	We have by no means joined some elitist club. We have by no means done that. However, we respect both our welfare societies and the principle that if you can work, you have to work. And if you do not have that principle and if you do not try to create incentives to ensure that it is actually a principle that is being applied, then we just have to say that then our welfare society will be so undermined. Because that must and must be the way I say it, because I clearly believe that we are actually a working party that if you can work, you have to work. Therefore, one should also be able to feel that there will be a gain by taking a job rather than being on public support if one can work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130906	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130908	After all, it is amazing to listen to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, who belongs to the richest 1%. in this country, stand and preach to a group that we have repeatedly told Mrs Marlene Harpsøe today for three out of four is in the situation that, due to illness or social problems, they cannot work. Then comes the record again: it must pay off to work, financial incentives. If it's not political elite, if it's not upper class, then I don't know what it is. That's exactly what the Danish People's Party has become in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317130943	I completely disagree with Mrs Stine Brix. I am well aware that the Enhedslisten, which is the party represented by Mrs Stine Brix, has a completely different view of this work in relation to what we mean in the Danish People's Party. I respect the fact that there are some political differences, but we insist in the Danish People's Party that a cash aid ceiling is good because it creates some financial incentives to get into work for those who can work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131017	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131019	I am also from the Enhedslisten if the rapporteur is in doubt. I would like to talk about the children affected by this proposal. Today there are about 8,000 children living in poverty in Denmark, and 35,000 children are affected by this proposal that the Danish People's Party intends to vote through. There are eight children's organisations: Save the Children, Children's Council, UNICEF, the Children's Council; I cannot really think of a child's organisation which is not on the list which, in a debate paper here today, urges a majority in the Danish Parliament to refuse to send thousands of children into poverty. What they are saying is that they cannot understand how families can live for what the Danish People's Party is asking them to live for. And what they are saying is that it will hit children at education, at work, at their future prospects. They will remain in poverty and isolated from communities, and this creates the breeding ground for even worse social conditions. What is the Danish People's Party's response to the children and the child organizations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131132	I would just like to remind Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten that there are also people at work who can be difficult to find just the money for that football club quota or money for that extra flight suit that you have to buy every year, or for new winter boots. There are also those in the labour market who are in this situation today. I think we should also bear that in mind. It is not only cash aid recipients who can be in this situation. This situation can also be faced if you really have a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131209	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131210	I'm sorry, but that was the least excuse I've heard for a long time: it's because there are people at work who have to turn around every 25-ear, and I know that God is sorry, I'm obviously not allowed to say anything about the higher powers, so I don't want to do that. How, though, is it to excuse and justify it to people who are so unlucky to be affected by unemployment, who have severe social problems, abuse problems and health problems that make them unable to take a job? Is not the reality that there is not a single good reason why this proposal has been put forward, other than that it is part of an ideological, elitist battle where the Danish People's Party has put itself on the wrong side of the line?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131259	In the Danish People's Party we have great respect for the welfare society and also for those who work every day. We also have great respect for the recipients of cash benefits who may end up in a situation where they are just unemployed and cannot support themselves and therefore need to receive cash benefits. And we are very happy with the social safety net that you have in Denmark. But I see it as a fact that what we are adopting here today is precisely ensuring that a ceiling on cash benefits will create financial incentives to make a profit by getting to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131334	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131339	Thank you. I actually came up here when the rapporteur spoke about the municipality of Elsinore and how difficult it could be in the municipality of Elsinore to ensure that you can find housing for all those who are affected by these cuts in cash aid. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that in some municipalities in this country more than half of those who move there are on some form of transfer income, even if they are of working age. It could, for example, be done. be in Lolland Municipality. So if you assume that there is no room for people in the municipality of Elsinore, which has already come out here, then we will see that this proposal will mean that on Lolland and Falster and elsewhere, West Zealand too, you will see a great migration of people who are on cash aid because it is simply the only places where they have the opportunity to live. We all know Låsby-Svendsen and the types that rent out cheap dilapidated houses. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur thinks it is sensible for us to have a country where we push the recipients of cash benefits into some municipalities because they cannot live in others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131445	I think that what has been a real problem is that for too many years an excessive flow of refugees into Denmark has been accepted and that we have had a rather lax asylum policy. Well, that's one thing. The Social Democrats were behind it. For example, it has. This means that we are now in a position to do so in the municipality of Elsinore, where the influx of refugees is also pushing us out in the municipalities. It does so both in Elsinore and in other municipalities. And there you lie down on the part of the municipal council... at least in the municipality of Elsinore you do that on the stomach of this question and do everything you can to secure a home for them. So if you can secure a home, and you do that to all the refugees who come to the municipality, then you can also do it to those who might find themselves in a situation where they need something cheaper to live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131537	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131539	After all, it is not refugees who are the problem in this discussion here. We have seen over the last 20 years that there has been traffic from, among other things. the municipality of the rapporteur and to municipalities further away from the large cities. And the essence of that is basically that you push people to move because the homes are too expensive. And now there are even more people who have difficulty paying a home. Can the rapporteur, who represents a party that normally claims to want to strengthen rural areas and would have a Denmark in balance, not see a problem at all in that we have some municipalities where there is a marked increase in the number of people on transfer income, even if they are of working age, and some municipalities where they are somehow getting rid of them, among other things. the rapporteur's own municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131616	One often hears this about the fact that the ceiling on cash benefits should mean that there are thousands of people being put out of their homes or that they now have to find something cheaper to live in. I would say that I do not believe in the fact that there are 14 000 or more families who are now becoming homeless on the basis of the ceiling on cash benefits. Because we also see in relation to this delay that when it is that a family is put on the street, it is often that there are some different factors that are at stake, among other things. that you cannot control your private finances, and there may be abuse or similar. In fact, however, local authorities have the opportunity in their budgets to set aside funds to ensure that there is preventive action in this area so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131704	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall not be able to make any more brief comments within the time allotted to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr President. Hans Andersen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131721	Thank you. It is, of course, a highly debated bill that we are finishing here today, but the Government and the Left's ambition is that more people should get into employment. That is why we want to increase the benefit of working rather than being on passive support. In our optics it is quite unreasonable and untenable that Danes on cash benefits have something like the same at their disposal as, for example, an employee in a shop for minimum wages who does their job every day. Everyone must contribute to the common welfare and working community, and this is what we are marking today with this bill. As it is today, we must of course be true that it is almost as profitable to be on cash benefits as it is to be in active employment on a low wage. Unlike the previous government, it is not at all a development that the Left will accept. We will make sure that it always pays to work, regardless of what full-time job you take, also at a low salary. With the new cash benefits ceiling, a family with three children, where both parents are on cash benefits, has approx. 15,000 kroner. available per month after tax and housing expenses have been paid. We believe that this is a reasonable amount of money, which means that there should still be money to participate in children's birthdays, leisure activities, etc. I admit that this requires tough priorities, but that is the case in many families where wages can also be at the low end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131923	I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to calm down in the gallery!
ParlaMint-DK_20160317131929	Thank you. As you know, the ceiling on cash benefits is only the first part of the job reform that the Left Government wants to carry out, and in the autumn it follows the second part, where we will ease the tax for people with the lowest wage incomes. The two initiatives are linked in order to create the difference that needs to be made when it comes to increasing the incentive to take up a job. It's a matter of fairness. It should not be as advantageous to be on cash benefits as to go to work. There are hard-working Danes who have a job that every day goes on jobs and makes contributions to our common welfare and so it should be. More people must be actively available for the labour market, and with today's bill, we ensure that more people actually get to work and we ensure that there is an incentive to take a job. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Left supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132035	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132040	Thank you and thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that the rapporteur's only encouraging message to the single mother with two children who suddenly lose $36,000. in available amounts per year, is: Well you just have to learn to prioritize. I don't think we're gonna get on with that. Let us take another discussion of fairness. Does the rapporteur really think that it is right that the same single mother with two children, who may have been fortunate enough to get a job that she would very much like to hold on to, but who will be unemployed because the company is being cut down because of rationalization, will experience a hugely greater reduction in her availability due to these rules? She will find that on top of what she loses with the current rules when she goes on cash benefits, she will lose 36.600 DKK. Does the rapporteur really think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132146	I would like to discuss whether it is reasonable when you are a single parent, for example having three children and are on cash benefits that you have approx. 13,000 kroner. available once the tax and housing costs have been paid. I find that, and it seems that the Left is a reasonable amount to have when you're on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132212	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132214	Thank you, but I can also conclude that the rapporteur and the other blue blocs talk that it is fair for employees who do not get very much out of going to work, that they are now putting down cash aid for the unemployed, is just nonsense, because basically the rapporteur does not give a damn about the low-paid. If the rapporteur were not, such a proposal would not be implemented. Could the rapporteur please confirm that the low-paid single mother, who is fortunate enough to have a low-wage job, will not be better off if the unemployed person gets worse? Would the rapporteur not like to confirm that fact?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132258	We are preoccupied with the fact that there is a significant gain from going from cash assistance to getting to work, and also a job that is paid at a minimum rate of 17,700 DKK, for example. a month. With this bill, we are actually ensuring that there is the gain that we think should be and the benefit that is in the implementation of the bill itself, we will use to reduce the tax for the group of citizens who have the lowest wage incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132332	The next brief remark is from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132336	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht asked the Minister for Finance the following question: Will the Minister state how many people lose money by working on the current rules and then after this bill? It took about four months for the Minister of Finance to find out this question, so we expect the answer to be correct. The answer is that today there are 14,000 people who get less than 0 kroner. out of it. Then there will be when this comes into force. There are 37,000 who get less than 1,000 kroner. By going to work. Then there will be when this comes into force. In other words, the fact that it's all done because it has to pay to work doesn't work. Can the rapporteur not confirm these figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132421	I certainly believe that what is in that note is absolutely correct. What you have to remember is reading the whole answer. For it says at the bottom of page 2 that exactly the group we are talking about here, cash aid recipients, doubles their winnings by going to work. They go from having an average gain by going to work of 1,500 DKK. for an average win of DKK 3,000. This is only the first part of our job reform. The second part of our job reform will come in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132453	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132456	A note like this always says something first and last. That's the way it is with notes. But first it says that there are 51 000 people who can actually now get nothing out of taking a job, and they will not be able to do so after this proposal has been adopted. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132521	That note is, of course, about looking at the total population. There are certainly benefit recipients who are covered by that note and they today have a very, very small gain from going to work. They will gain a greater gain when we carry out tax cuts in the autumn, including for the group of people who go out and take a low-wage job. What I am aware of is that, with the ceiling on cash benefits, we ensure that the benefit of going out and taking a job as a cash help recipient is doubled, and that is the key point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132550	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132555	I have to say that I actually think it is close to being rude when the Left and the Danish People's Party say over and over again that it is in fact for the low-paid SOSU employee or the low-paid cleaning assistant that you are cutting down on cash aid. I would like to hear the rapporteur's answer to how the low-paid SOSU employee in any way gets a better everyday life by making her unemployed colleague poorer; how the daily life of the low-paid cleaning assistant is improved by the fact that her colleague, who was hit by depression and therefore smoked on cash benefits, is now getting even harder to pay the rent. How does it help the low-paid that the sick, the unemployed become even poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132653	In the Left we find that there must be a noticeable gain by moving from cash assistance to a job. And we find that the level we have set for the ceiling on cash benefits, i.e. that as a provider of three children you have approx. 13,000 kroner. available, once you have paid your home and your tax, is a reasonable level. We believe that there should be a very noticeable difference between moving from cash to work, and that is also a question of fairness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132724	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132726	But there's I didn't get an answer to my, I think, very straightforward questions. I asked two questions: 1) How does the low-paid get a better everyday life out of the fact that the colleague who has lost his job becomes poorer? 2) How does the low-paid make a better life out of the fact that the colleague who was hit by depression and smoke on cash benefits becomes poorer? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132809	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132812	I think we should be careful to patent who has last been outside Christiansborg's thick walls. I can only say that if you are a single parent with three children, you now have a prize of DKK 600, i.e. DKK 30. during the day, by going to work. It is now raised to DKK 4,400. a month. That is a tangible gain, and it is also what is needed to ensure that there is reasonableness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132839	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132843	I visited outside Christiansborg's walls in Roskilde in the Housing Society Sjælland. They have 13,000 common homes, and they knew that at present there were 4,000 of the homes in which a single parent could afford to live. Then they've made a drive that, with this cash aid ceiling that is now being introduced today, if it is adopted, shows that then there will be 375 homes in the future in which single parents with a child could afford to live. I think that these are alarming figures and I think that a very central issue is where the poorest should live. After all, we are in a situation where the municipalities have to provide approx. 10,000 homes for refugees, where there are 6,000 homeless people, maybe it is a little invisible group and where we now get some cash help recipients who are hit by a ceiling, and BL believes that this means that there may be 12,000 families facing being put out of their homes when we arrive at the end of the year. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: where are the poorest people going to live? I have the impression that the rapporteur himself is familiar with some municipalities. Where are the poorest people going to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317132949	As I think I said in my introduction, this requires a strict priority, and a cash benefit is a temporary benefit. You don't have to be on that for years. I admit that it takes a strong priority to get the money going, even if you are subject to a ceiling on cash benefits in the future. However, I do not believe in isolation that the ceiling on cash benefits is the reason why people are put out of their homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133017	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133019	No, it is essentially the fault of the blue block if it is the case that some people are being put out of their homes in the future. In other words, what we are dealing with here is that the government with the blue block might get 700 jobs with what is now being adopted, while there are 30,000 families who have a poorer everyday life. That's reality. If there are no more jobs when the Left is unable to provide the jobs for the poorest people, then the consequence is huge personal costs with single parents who are at risk of being put on the streets. From day one, the municipality will have to provide them with accommodation, and it will be an expense that you simply load onto the municipalities. I would like to ask the rapporteur again: where are the poorest people going to live? What will the Left do to ensure that there are cheap accommodations in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133103	The questioner mentions just a little in a page note the 700 people who come to work. That's central. There are 700 people who are now changing the cash benefits for a job. That's a good thing. I think we should hold on to that. Developments have gone the opposite way over the last few years. The number of people on cash benefits has increased. That's not the way we're going. We're going the opposite way, we're going to get more people into work, and that's what we're going to get with this cash-aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133134	Sir. Pelle Dragsted for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133140	Can the rapporteur confirm that, according to the answer given yesterday, there are solid gains for the average recipient of cash benefits by going to work, and if you look at the average, there is a gain of about DKr 6 400. from going from cash aid to going to work and that when the rapporteur tours with these examples of a single provider who gets only 600 kroner. In fact, in terms of work, it is because it compares with a wage income of DKK 17,700, as the Minister for Employment in an answer to Mr. Finn Sørensen has just acknowledged that there is an infinitely small part of the Danes who go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133228	In the answer it's compared to a salary I think it's about 26,000 kr. What I'm talking about is the win for the individual in this bill, and that means that there are 30,000 cash benefits recipients who, on average, will increase their winnings from DKK 1,500. for 3,000 kroner. a month by going to work once we have implemented the cash benefits ceiling. That's a noticeable gain. I do not even believe that the rapporteur himself believes that the DKK 26 000. is exactly the pay you go out and get when you come from cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133306	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133308	It all depends on what kind of education you have and what kind of job you get. The fact is that you use figures that compare a tiny group of people who go unemployed, who have very special housing conditions, a very special number of children and a very special number of other benefits, and then you take a tiny group on the labour market. The fact is that over the last few decades the distance from being available to being in work has grown, so it has become more expensive and expensive for the Danes to be hit by unemployment. That is why the government's legislation, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm this, is not just an attack on those who go unemployed, it is an attack on all those workers who risk becoming unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133351	What we mention is the pay you can get if you go into a store, for example, at Strøget and get paid according to the applicable agreement in the area. That's 17,700 kroner. That's a good comparison. That's what the alternative is for many cash benefits recipients. They don't go straight out and get a salary of $26,000. a month. That is precisely not to talk about reality. So this is about the fact that with the implementation of the cash benefits ceiling, we double the average benefit for the individual cash benefits recipient when he goes to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133422	Mrs Paulin, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133425	Thank you. Every time we hear about some of these groups, like... We also hear from the Left and the Danish People's Party that these are perhaps groups which should not be on cash aid at all. So, in concrete terms, I want to hear what the rapporteur will do to ensure that these citizens are not unduly affected and whether the rapporteur can reveal whether there is any other help, for example. To those war veterans who are now getting really hard hit on the wallet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133459	In relation to people with disabilities who are assigned a special accommodation and therefore have particularly high housing costs, we have already made a change to the bill. As far as veterans are concerned, it is the case that if you have a permanently reduced ability to work and have, for example, a reduced ability to work. Ptsd, you don't have to be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133519	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133523	Okay, so you don't have to be on cash benefits at all. And what about those who actually are suffering from post-traumatic stress now and who are affected? Then they just have to go through a long process where they have to find out that they're going on something, while they're gonna lose up to 2,000 kroner. a month. Is it true that then they just have to wait until they sort of come over to another service?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133553	I think we would all like to see it done, at least the Left will help our veterans the best way possible. That is also why we have implemented a special law. This is why we have established a special unit within the Danish Labour Damage Board that can handle the cases and applications for compensation that are available. That's what we're gonna do. Perhaps we should also give the veteran law a review. So we're gonna take these measures. If you are a veteran and have permanently reduced your working capacity, and besides it has ptsd, you should not be on cash benefits at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133626	Mrs Pernille Skippe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133628	The left is for me to look out in an ideological crusade. It is simply an expression of one of the most elitist redistribution policies one can imagine, because one is taking from some of the people who have the least of alleralls and have the slightest chance to change that situation, to give to some of the people who have received in both ends over the past many years. And the reason I'm saying this is because there's no effect on this. It is an infinitely small number of jobs that come out of sending thousands of people into poverty, and of the people whom the Left hopes will rise in sudden joy and leap into the labour market, three quarters of them are considered not to be labour market ready. They have such strong social problems, mental and physical illnesses, homelessness, perhaps abuse that makes them unable to work. And yet the Left says that it must be worthwhile to work, knowing that there is a big gain in getting a job already today. Now, of course, the rapporteur can contradict me, but is it not true that what the Left would like to do is to reduce benefits so that wages also come down so that we get pressured and get some cheaper labour, and in this way the Left would actually like to hit both those who are outside the labour market and those who are in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133759	Mrs Pernille Skip then mentions the 700 again. We must welcome the 700 people who are now coming to work. Each of those who get to work who switch cash benefits out with a job may be the role model they want to be for their children. We welcome this in the Left. And then the problem is, and the problem has been that there is no great gain from going to work. 600 kr. a month, 30 kroner. a day, if you are a single parent with three children, that is not a noticeable gain by taking up work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133841	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133843	I do not know whether I should take the missing answer to the question as a yes. Apart from the fact that we can discuss numbers from here to the moon, it doesn't change that a cashier, for example. receive approx. 4,000 kroner. more by sitting at the cash register than by being on cash benefits. But could the rapporteur not answer me honestly because, if it were 700 jobs, I honestly think that a smarter way could be found to do so, whether the rapporteur believes and is betting that when you lower cash benefits, the lowest wages will also follow downwards, so that you hit both those who are in the labour market and those who are outside the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317133939	I believe that with the ceiling on cash benefits we ensure the cohesion that we need in Denmark, in other words that it is always worthwhile to go to work. We need some more on the labour market. I certainly don't think and I have more faith in it, I can listen to it, to the social partners that this will lead to some collective agreements being made tomorrow where wages come down. It doesn't. It will continue to develop and increase quietly. I therefore have confidence in the social partners that they are in a position to agree on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134015	Does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left, wish to make a brief comment? No. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134024	Thank you. As can be seen from the daily press, and as has also been asked about earlier here today, in addition to all those we have previously talked about being affected by this law, there is now evidence that 500 of the people who have been sent to war for Denmark and who have come home as veterans, injured in one way or another, and who for various reasons have ended up in cash aid, are also affected by this law which the government and the Danish People's Party intend to implement. The rapporteur then says that they should not be on cash aid at all. So should I say hello from Veteran Home Aalborg and ask: What benefit should they be on? Who is responsible for putting them on it, and when will that happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134119	We must do everything we can to help people who have been out fighting for freedom and for Denmark. That is why we agreed to adopt a special law. That's why we've made sure that a special unit of the Ankeskatterstyrelsen deals with these cases as quickly as possible. And then it is all about the fact that if you have a permanently reduced ability to work and, for example, you have PTSD, then you shouldn't be on cash benefits at all, and that is the responsibility of the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134151	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134154	Now the rapporteur did not answer when that would happen. Unfortunately, I have not been here throughout the debate, but I understand that the Danish People's Party has actually guaranteed from the platform that everyone who is accidentally affected by this law should be transferred to another service within six months. At least that's how I got it. I would just like to ask how the rapporteur of the Left feels about this, because it must be the right way to go, that is to say to ensure that none of them here are accidentally affected by the law. I have just heard the rapporteur say the same thing, namely that none of them are affected. And when will that happen? Can we get a guarantee for a time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134245	That work is going on all the time. After all, the Socialists and the Left have together made a large number of reforms in the field of employment. After all, there are constantly assessments of what people can do and what people can't do. So I look forward to the Socialists supporting the fact that we have to follow this whole area of employment very closely. The municipalities already have an obligation today to have conversations with citizens, and it is estimated that they have no ability to work, they should not be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134315	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134316	I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that the DKK 17 700, which we are referring to here as the minimum wage, are the same DKK 17 700, which we are starting from the fact that you have to have as income if you are to have access to the benefit system, that is to say that we are using the same minimum wage that we say gives access to the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134344	Yes, I would like to confirm that, and I am a little concerned that the Red parties are putting such a strong distance to a minimum wage that the social partners have actually agreed. You know, if you walk outside this door, you really move out, it's the pay you can get and start if you go into a store. But here I have previously been asked by Enhedslisten for a salary of 26,000 DKK. It was evidently the view in the Enhedslisten that it is the salary you receive as a cash benefit recipient. I don't believe that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134416	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen in round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134418	I'm not surprisingly in agreement. I would also like to ask: if we are to have a problem with the ceiling on cash benefits based on a minimum wage of DKK 17 700, and perhaps we should be based on a higher minimum wage, should we not, as a consequence, also be based on a higher minimum wage as access to the benefit system if there is to be any sense whatsoever, any logic in what minimum wages we are based on in our legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134451	Yes, I very much agree with that. However, I have not heard that it was a great wish during the benefit negotiations that we should go into what should be said, the essential task of the social partners, namely the setting of wages. However, it may come later that there will be a call from the Red Parties for us to also be able to discuss pay and wage fixing in the Folketing. But I think we should try to stick to things other than equal pay. In fact, I think some other parties are better at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134523	There are two more who have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134528	Thank you. One of the concerns of my party is, of course, the huge negative effect this could have on many families with children who will be thrown into poverty. For this reason, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht asked for a question to be put through the Committee on Finance, Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 30, which was intended to highlight the effects we are talking about here, i.e. how many children will actually become poor as a result of this legislative change. But there has been no answer. Does the rapporteur consider it satisfactory that, despite the fact that this question was asked in November, no answer has yet been received?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134604-2	As far as I know, all the questions raised about this bill have been answered. And that is the bill we are discussing today. So that's kind of it. All parties agree that we have a third reading today on the ceiling for cash benefits. I admit that question, sir. Benny Engelbrecht mentioned yesterday and that question, Mr. Dan Jørgensen now mentions, and which is another question, takes place in the Finance Committee. And that dialogue, I think, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen and the Minister for Finance must continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134633	Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134634	No, that's not true. It was also Jørn Neergaard Larsen who stated that, unfortunately, it has not been possible to reply within the short time limit, as I believe it is stated. But this is not a short deadline, it is from November. And it has to be said that the bottom line is that we are now adopting legislation that does not know the consequences. Nor is the rapporteur himself concerned about how many children will live in a family suffering from poverty as a result of this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134659	It should be noted that the ministers are mentioned with their titles, in this case the Minister for Employment. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134706	I think the best thing we can do for children in Denmark is to ensure that they grow up in families where going to work is normal. I think that's the best we can do. And if the ceiling on cash benefits, which we are going to adopt a little later today, actually ensures that 700 more people are going to work, then I think the Socialists should be happy about it instead of problematizing that there will still be people who will be on cash benefits or will grow up with parents on cash benefits. But what I welcome today is that 700 more people are going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134744	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party, to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134748	I just have one question, because both in this rapporteur's answer and in the response of the Danish People's Party rapporteur, one continues to say that it is almost protecting and defending the groups of citizens in particular who are at the lowest levels of society and that it is out of respect for them that various benefits related to people on cash benefits are now being reduced. I would just like to say that the rapporteur agrees with the economic wise men when they say and conclude several times, but, most recently in their last annual report, that there is the clear link between reducing benefits, among other things. on cash benefits, do wages tend to follow in the same direction, namely down? Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134833	In a very theoretical world, I would admit that it is possible to think about it, but we are not living in it. In other words, several rapporteurs in here have talked about the fact that we are going into reality. If we move out in reality, I do not think we will see that the next time they sit down at the table and have to negotiate an agreement, the social partners will have to pay lower wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134858	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134900	Yeah, yeah, but there's so much that's theoretical. In other words, it is also theoretical when the rapporteur stands on the floor and says that 700 jobs are being created. That is not really what is happening. There is a 700 increase in the supply of labour, but that does not mean that people get to work. So the rapporteur will not answer the question: does he agree with the economic wise and practically all other professional economists that reducing benefits also means that the lowest paid in the labour market over time will see their wages go down?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317134929	I live both here at Christiansborg, but sometimes in reality, and there I actually meet the social partners. And I do not think they have the ambition to reduce their wages next time, because we are about to adopt a ceiling on cash benefits. I believe that wages will keep pace, and that is part of the fact that society is developing, including in Denmark. So I do not share this very black vision of the Socialists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317135001	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317135016	Thank you. In two ways, this is a kind of judgment day. It is the day of judgment for thousands of people, of whom I know that many follow very worriedly in the debate we have here, because it is about their lives and their opportunities to have a good life with their family, or whether they should be faced with a situation where they are being squeezed out of the housing they are living in now, and it is about a lot of sick people who cannot work and who have the municipality's word that they cannot work, but who, with this bill, become deeply concerned about what they are now facing and have no opportunity to defend themselves against. So I think they're experiencing it as a day of judgment. But it is also a judgment day for some others. It is a day of judgment for the Danish People's Party. All the disability organisations, all the organisations that advocate the conditions of children and vulnerable people, a collective trade union movement, a united opposition here in the Folketing and all sorts of individuals have strongly warned of the consequences of this bill: that it will lead to more families being put out of their homes, more people being on the streets, more people becoming poor. Even organizations such as the National Association of Municipalities, which may not be accused of being covert advocates of Enhedslisten's policy, are strongly warning against adopting this bill. A large majority of the social leaders are warning. All sorts of people who have common sense and a bit of bourgeois decency in them are warning against adopting this bill. But the parties in the blue block with the Danish People's Party in the lead have turned a deaf ear. The debate here today shows this. They are united in a marvelous cynicism, an extraordinary arrogance to the unemployed, to the sick, to people with disabilities. They have only one answer to these people: you must learn to prioritize your budgets when thousands of dollars suddenly disappear from the household budget. Of course, it is also very easy for politicians who are in a completely different grade and who have a financially secure everyday life. Then it is easy to make such decisions. The crucial questions they will not answer at all, and cynicism is manifesting itself. We have asked: why should there be more people in the job of taking money from the unemployed? Why should the sick get better by becoming poorer? How will the blue parties ensure that those who cannot work are exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule? Where are the cheap homes in which these people are to live when they can no longer afford to live where they live now? All questions are answered with endless sausage talk that it must be worthwhile to work and that if it can, there will also be more people working. But the Danish People's Party and their colleagues do not even believe that. 30,000 people get poorer after the government's own figures, but only 700 people are expected to get to work maybe. It just shows that this is not what it is all about. The real agenda is another. It is a question of providing scope for tax relief. We do not need to discuss this; it is clear from the text of the conciliation. That Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and walks around and says something else, there isn't much to do about it. They'll have to clean that up for themselves. But the agenda is also to print the minimum wage. All economists, regardless of political observation, agree that there is a link between the lowest social benefits and the minimum wage. When social benefits are depressed, the wage goes down. It is an economic law in a market society. That goes without saying. Everyone knows that the insecurity of employees is increasing as the gaps in the social safety net increase. Then employers have easy games. Employees dare not make demands and pay goes down. After all, it is a delightful windmill that the bourgeois parties get started there, because when we have managed to get the wage down again over time, the difference has become too small, and then we have to listen again to the call that it should pay to work so that benefits can be reduced even further. So much respect for the low-paid is there in that bill, despite the fact that those who have put it forward speak of nothing but respect for those who go to work every day. They cannot explain how low-paid people, however, should get richer by the fact that their unemployed colleagues are becoming poorer, especially when, even in an unfortunate situation, the low-paid person is sacked because of company closures or rationalization and is affected by exactly the same rules. I think the Minister for Employment has actually said this very well: it is respect for the social partners. He just forgets that it is only one party that thinks it is respectful to implement such a bill, namely the Danish Employers' Association. The LO would very much have been deprived of this kind of respect because they know it is a spiral of death for employees. So that's what it can be boiled down to, all this with respect: it's respect for the Danish Employers' Association and for the people in this country who are already well and who are going to benefit from the tax cuts that the blue block probably agrees to agree at some point. But the debate does not end here. It continues in the Folketing, it continues in society, and it will increase in strength as the consequences emerge. The Enhedslisten will ensure that the Danish People's Party is made politically responsible. They could have prevented this shameful abuse of some of the most vulnerable citizens if they wanted to. We have tabled amendments which would ensure that sick people and people with disabilities are not affected by these tough rules. The Danish People's Party would not support this, so we will make the Danish People's Party responsible for every example of sick and disabled people who get their economy ruined and their lives ruined because of this bill. We will hold the Danish People's Party responsible for every increase in the number of postponements and the number of homeless and the number of poor. On the other hand, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Socialists, to the Radicals, to the Alternative and to the Socialist People's Party for the joint struggle we have waged against this bill. I fully agree with the chairman of the Socialist Group, Mette Frederiksen, when she says that the Danish People's Party is failing the weakest. That is why I am very sorry that the Socialists and the Radicals will not go along with the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF when we promise in our contribution to the report to remove this shameful law as soon as the opportunity arises. I just don't understand. I guess you have to ask that question and someone will probably do it if we do not, if we do not both promise to remove this law and actually do it, get hit by the same criticism that we make of the Danish People's Party, namely that we then fail the weakest. I really hope that the Socialists and the Radicals will change their minds as soon as possible. We need to light a candle in the dark. We need to give hope to the many people who are affected by this legislation and who have no opportunity to defend themselves against it, and to the hope of the many employees who have a job but who can see that security is crumbling. We have to try to create a belief that another policy is possible, and I think it must be true that in a single red block we may be a bit of an exaggeration as far as the color is concerned, but still the people promise that we will correct it at the first opportunity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317135908	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317135914	One must always be careful and listen carefully when Enhedslisten quotes economists, especially when Enhedslisten quotes all economists. Sir. Finn Sørensen says that all economists agree that if you lower cash benefits, the minimum wage will also be reduced. And Mr. Finn Sørensen suggests that it will affect those who are in work today at the minimum wage or slightly above the minimum wage. The reality is that, as economists describe, with a lower transfer income, people who are outside the labour market today will feel the motivation to enter the labour market for the wage they can now earn, and it may well be below the current minimum wage. Well, maybe it could be 100 kroner. per hour instead of 110 kr., 115 kr. But the people who are already in work will not be paid as a result. They can earn that salary today, and they will be able to do so in the future. They are different people with different productivity. One can only imagine that it should be best and an ideal situation for those who cannot earn 110 DKK. or 115 kr., is on cash assistance rather than in work to 100 kr., if you are very red.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140031	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140032	If the rapporteur can find someone who does not agree with it, let us hear who it is, but I think that will be a very lonely swallow, because all economists agree that there is a link between the lowest social benefit we talk about cash benefits and the minimum wage. This is, moreover, a bit misleading, because the lowest performance for many, many thousands of people is just a little bit of integration. But let's just take the cash. The economists agree that there is a link between the lowest social benefit and the minimum wage, and that is what I have said. I have not claimed that there are people working for collective pay who go down directly in wages, but there is no guarantee that they will not, because it is clear that if the employer finds out that there is a possibility of having the workforce cheaper, then the employer will go for it. I think so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen knows better than most of the others here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140132	Sir. Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140133	You should not always listen only to what people say, but also to what they want to create from thoughts in the recipient's head. And when sir... Finn Sørensen says that the minimum wage is gonna crash, and Mr. Sørensen wants to... Finn Sørensen to create the idea in people's heads that those who today work at minimum wage are going down in wages as a result of the lowering of cash benefits. But that is not the case. If sir... Finn Sørensen will now say that no, they certainly do not, their wages will be relatively fixed because their productivity says they can get such a salary, then I will be happy, because then this debate will have fulfilled all the purposes that I might have to come here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140214	I must say that you have run very low on arguments when you have to read things like this into what I said. I can only call on the rapporteur, when we have finished the debate, to sit down and listen carefully to what I said, because then the rapporteur will see that there is no evidence to put the things I said that the rapporteur is trying to do. It's okay, 'cause it can go for all of us. But thank you for the questions anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140239	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140241	It was a constructive exchange of words that was here. The unitary list recognizes that if the minimum wage is reduced as a result of the reduction of benefits, it does not mean that those who work today at the current minimum wage are going down in pay. This means that those who then enter the labour market at a lower minimum wage are those who were not in the labour market before. They are now working for e.g. 100 kroner. If we imagine it would be the new minimum wage. Then you just have to ask Enhedslisten: Is it really Enhedslisten's view that it is better to go on transfer to 90 DKK. per hour than working for 90 kroner. In class?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140336	No, the rapporteur knows that because I do not think so. The best thing is for everyone who is unemployed, anyone who can work, to get a job. But the problem is simply that there are not enough jobs for them. That is one of the reasons why there are so many people on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140351	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140352	But when we have many people on transfer in Denmark, that is because we have high minimum wages. The high minimum wages are influenced by the level of transfers. No minimum wages will be agreed which are lower than what can be obtained on transfer. So the transfer income in itself prevents people from entering the labour market, it cuts off those people who are not productive enough to pay the minimum wages we have today in order to enter the labour market. So the question is whether it would not be better if we had slightly lower transfers and thus slightly lower minimum wages, so that some of the people who are outside today will be able to enter the labour market. Finn Sørensen himself says that it would be better if you could work for 90 kroner. per hour instead of being on transfer to 90 DKK. It's an hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140446	The rapporteur makes a claim that cannot be proved, and that is that when there are many unemployed, it is because wages are too high. However, thank you very much for the rapporteur's contribution, because it completely confirms what I said, namely that this is about the fact that some people have understood that there is a close link between minimum wages and social benefits. That, of course, was what the rapporteur said, so much for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140513	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140515	I just have to brush it out completely. On 25 February we had a hearing in committee where we had a number of experts inside. I know that both Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen will call himself experts, but the experts were certainly not there for that hearing. Can I not just confirm from the rapporteur that Torben Tranæs, a wise man in the Economic Council, said that if we provide lower benefits in this country, it will pay lower wages for those who earn the least.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140547	I can confirm that. And if you think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen remembers the wrong way, of course, one can look up in the report of the Wise Men, which Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen referred to, and who came in the autumn of 2015 • I think it was in October • where there is a longer section on the relationship between the amount of cash aid and the wage development. There are those things well described, so in this way I would say that I agree with the wise men in the analysis of that relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140617	No one else has asked for short remarks, and so we can thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, too? Well, then it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance first. It would be nice if one were to be clear and also to have indicated to the Chair that one wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317140647	We're about to get this new cash aid ceiling approved. What is the essence of this debate, what is it really about? It is about us in this Parliament deciding politically, deciding what level we should have for cash assistance in Denmark. When you hear the debate, you sometimes get the impression that the level of transfers is something that has failed from the sky, something that is not up for discussion. But that's what we're spending 17 billion. kr. a year on the payment of cash benefits. It's a political choice. We can choose to say that we want a little less cash to spend the money on some other things. What we're supposed to be dealing with is whether the level we're going to have for the cash benefits once we've adopted this ceiling is okay. I gotta say, I think it's okay. We will continue to have the highest level of cash aid throughout the world, even when we are correcting for purchasing power. When correcting for prices etc. in Denmark in relation to other countries, we will have a very, very high cash assistance. That's what we have to deal with. Is it okay for a two-child cash-aid recipient to be paid DKK 17,400?? Is that a good level? Is it okay level that that's the help we like from in here say is what we're gonna offer. I think that is a very, very good level, and that is what this debate is about. The fact that it also, when we lower the cash benefits a little bit, makes it more attractive for some to switch the cash benefits out with work is just a really, really positive thing. This is also about fairness, and fairness is something we can have different opinions about. In LA we think it is fair to those who go to work at a minimum wage, which is laid down by the social partners, that we do not say in here: well, it may be that the social partners have agreed on minimum wages, but we think we should have as much paid by the public sector. Others also mention the slightly squandered word 'coherence', that is to say, that it goes beyond the cohesion of society, that we lower cash benefits. I would argue that the fact that you can get as much cash benefits as you can by taking a job at the minimum wage damages cohesion. It is damaging the cohesion force, because there are very, very many people, and I can guarantee that people in this country who are outraged by going to work and practically get nothing out of it. Their willingness to pay for such a system is reduced when it is not just an aid to which they pay over tax, a help that enables you to cope during the period during which you may once be on cash benefits, but that the aid is of a size which means that you are paid almost as much as you do when you go to work. It is detrimental to the cohesion of a society. That is why it is in every way a sensible and proper step to take, in other words to bring some balance into the relationship between what can be gained from a public service and what can be earned from the labour market. I think the Socialists in particular should be able to understand that. It has never been the intention, even for the Socialists, to build up a system of transfer income, in which as much was paid out as is done at a minimum wage with the level that the Danish trade union movement has said OK. to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141122	Thank you. It is the case that there are four who have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141128	Thank you. On one point, I think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is liberatingly honest and comes into the core. It's about whether it's okay and what's a reasonable level of cash benefits, and whether it's okay to implement such a bill. And there, the water just separates. Sir. Joachim B.. Olsen thinks it's okay to deprive a single mother of two children 30%. of her available amount, with the result that she runs the risk of being evicted from her home. Sir. Joachim B.. Olsen thinks it's okay to implement a bill that leads to more poor children, more poor families, more homeless people. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is okay, because he wants to spend the money on something else. He wants to spend that kind of money on cheaper luxury cars, on reliefs in corporate tax and in the autumn for relief in top tax. Thank you for a clear message. Then I like that talk about the outrage, too. For basically, this is about wanting to breathe into the outrage, so that the low-paid turn their anger against unemployed single mothers with two children instead of turning their anger into the right path, namely towards the employers who eat them off with far too low wages. So thank you also for the clear announcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141249	The wages on the Danish labour market are, as Mr. Finn Sørensen is well aware of the social partners. There is a debate between the two sides, and the economic reality means that the wages paid on the labour market are an expression of the productivity of the employees. If you pay higher wages than productivity says, people will be out of work. The trade union movement is well aware that this is the way it works over time. That is why the minimum wage, as they are, is in Denmark. In any event, they are agreed between the two sides of industry. That's the way it's supposed to be. The rapporteur then says that this leads to more poor children. Once this ceiling on cash benefits has been introduced, these families with the available income they have do not fall below the poverty limit adopted by the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141352	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141354	Thank you. Yes, some of them do. One of the answers from the Minister for Employment shows this. And then I'm just gonna have to lecture sir. Joachim B. Olsen a little bit. Wages in this country are not only an expression of the productivity of employees, they are an expression of the strong relationship between employers and employees. That is why the LO would like to see it denied the kind of respect that the Minister of Employment thinks there is to the social partners in this bill, because the LO knows that... [Sound emission]... minimum wage and social benefits, which we just noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141438	But what we noted a moment ago was that when Mr. Finn Sørensen is trying to suggest that lower transfer income leads to lower wages, so it is not for the people who are already on the labour market today. That doesn't apply to them. They don't get lower wages. It's a scare picture that's being set up. It has no time in the real world. What a lower minimum wage would mean if 3F and others would agree to it, which I strongly doubt, is that some of those who cannot enter the labour market today, for example. Many of the immigrants who are on cash assistance could gain a foothold in the labour market, could enter the labour market with everything it benefits, where wages increase more quickly, etc. and gets the foot inside. There are hundreds of thousands of citizens in this society who can never get their feet on the labour market because of the minimum wage level we have in Denmark. I think that's socially very harsh.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141540	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen for a brief comment. I would just like to ask for a little more silence in the Chamber, including in the gallery. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141542	It is a very simple question which also requires a very simple answer: the reason why this bill was made by the government, and the reason why the Liberal Alliance votes for it, isn't it just that there has to be a gain by taking a job? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141606	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141613	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141614	Good. Can the rapporteur confirm this, as stated in the reply from the Minister for Finance? It is the case today that there are actually 14,000 people who, by taking a job, get less than 0 kroner. So there are 14,000 when this is passed. There are 37,000 people today who receive less than 1,000 kroner. by taking a job, and so is when this bill is passed. So if the reason is that there has to be a gain by being in work, then why do you vote for it when there is no gain by it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141643	Well, if it's up to us, then we're not done making reforms. Well, we have presented a plan that will make it attractive for everyone to be in work, but this is a step in the right direction. For the people who are affected by this cash benefits ceiling, the people who are affected by this cash benefits ceiling, there will be a gain, and that is the group we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141708	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141710	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen is always very enthusiastic about everything that comes under such financial incentives. And what we see here is that it is intended to reduce the conditions of 30,000 people; 14,000 families are put at risk in relation to being poured out of their homes. Don't you worry about it, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that it doesn't work? After all, the Ministry's own figures show a marginal increase of 650 people over the years. Why so much hooliganism for so little? Is it really not a question of something else for Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, this moral thing that you just have an incredibly hard time going home with the help of society? And isn't this about the Liberal Alliance, in this way, helping to free up funds that can subsequently be used for tax cuts? Well, what's at stake here anyway? Can we not really be annoyed that it does not work in relation to getting people into work? But on the other hand, it works, in that you get the scrub 500 million. kr. Into which one can then give out in the fall. What is really the Liberal Alliance's plan here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141813	But we are completely honest about what is our intention, so why we think it is right to set a global ceiling on how much people can receive on cash benefits. I've explained it to you. It's about a lot of things. It is a question of raising employment and so is it. I personally believe that the effect will be greater than the 700 proposed here. As I said, this is also about a general political priority. We have the world's highest cash aid in Denmark; we spend 17 billion. kr. If we can set a ceiling on the total benefits you can get on cash benefits and spend the money to put the tax down on work, then we think it is a proper priority. We are completely honest about that; we think it is a proper priority, that is to spend less on transfers and spend some of the money on lowering the tax, including for the single mother who goes to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141914	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141915	In many ways I really like the Liberal Alliance; there's not so much nonsense about them, you don't hide things. Actually, I like that. I really hope that you will listen to Joachim B. Olsen's interpretation here in the Danish People's Party and among the voters of the Danish People's Party, which I also hear the rapporteur say is quite correct: this does not work on employment; it is marginally what it does. What matters here is that you scrub 500 million. kr. It has nothing to do with getting people into jobs, it has something to do with having some money released. However, I would just like to address the issue of financial incentives to get people to work again. Now that we are faced with some people who, far down the road, are unable to move into the labour market, should we not consider using these financial incentives, but use them to the municipalities and to the companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317141958	But this is gonna work. Well, this increases employment. So it's wrong to say it doesn't work. Then I have to say that you make it sound as if it would be a completely insurmountable task for people to avoid going down in available amounts altogether. That's not true. So, the 225-hour rule that is being introduced is that if you work 6 weeks a year, you get increased your income to such an extent that you have no decrease in your available amount at all. That's 5-6 hours of work a week. And it is up to the municipalities to assess who is to be affected by the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142052	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142055	Well, it's very nice if there's a lot of small six-week jobs that can give jobs to these over 100,000 people who are on these benefits, plus to those who in the benefit system are now going to find similar jobs. That's really nice. But what is the matter here is that three out of four of the people who are on cash benefits are not considered job-ready. It's a lot of different groups. It can, for example, be done. be people who are suffering from depression. They may be victims of violence, rape victims who are unable to provide for a period of time. These may be people with impaired vision or hearing. They may be people with occupational injuries and others who cannot enter a job. These are also the people that the rapporteur is making considerably poorer with this. So even if you believe in the siren song that if we just take money from the poorest, they will get to work, even if there is unemployment in Denmark, the question is: why do you hit the sick, the disabled?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142204	When Mr. Pelle Dragsted is trying to draw a picture of the fact that all active cash benefits recipients are so ill and so far away from the labour market, it is wrong. That is simply not true. It is true that there will be ready-made activities affected by the 225-hour rule if the municipality considers that within one year they have the opportunity to find ordinary employment equivalent to 6 weeks. And it's not necessarily small jobs. It may be, and I do not see what would be wrong with it, that is to say you get a touch with the labour market sometimes instead of just getting further and further away from it. Because if there is something that leads to social deroute, then it is many, many years when you are getting further and further away from the labour market. It is also important to note that in the job centres they have actually sought tools with some automation that can help to give people an incentive to be in touch with the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142315	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142316	There are plenty of incentives to be in touch with the labour market. The situation of cash aid recipients is not the luxury that the rapporteur is trying to express. In fact, I wish that many in here on the right side of the hall themselves tried to be on cash benefits for just 6 months to pick out willow herb, out at the Amager Common for 37 hours a week for the cash aid and then they could come up here and repeat their myths, their prejudices and their disrespect for the Danes who are suffering from illness and unemployment and who are victims of the policy we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142358	I think it's an incredible rhetoric, sir. Pelle Dragsted uses sometimes. It is claimed that we have no respect for people who are on cash aid or in a difficult situation and that the only way to show that respect is to give more money. Well, the more money you're willing to give in cash, the greater your respect is evident. I think that is a very strange logic, because that is the logic of it. I just note that we have a system today where a single mother on cash benefits with two children gets DKK 20,300. paid out, and that's 1,500 kroner. more than the single mother with two children working for the minimum wage. In my view, it is not to show respect for the mother who goes to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142444	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142447	Thank you. I appreciate and respect Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's honesty. Following on from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensens's question and the reply, which came very late yesterday from the Ministry of Finance, which shows that there is virtually no effect at all, compared to how many more it mathematically pays to go to work, says Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Joachim B. Olsen in his reply: The Liberal Alliance will go much further along the path of reform; we will cut deeper into the benefits of cash benefits recipients. The Danish People's Party has been following the Liberal Alliance down this trail, and therefore the question is now: How much longer will the Liberal Alliance go with the Danish People's Party in hand? How much more do you need to cut if it's up to Mr. Knox? Joachim B. Olsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142543	There are some family types of cash benefits that, even after this is done, have a relatively small incentive, because with this ceiling you have chosen not to cut the cash benefits themselves. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at the amounts available to married couples on cash benefits after this ceiling, it is also available amounts which in themselves make it possible to live a relatively comfortable life on cash benefits. When you compare it with the composition of the families in which they are married couples on cash benefits, we have to say that it is mainly immigrants who have come to Denmark and who have a standard of living which is far, far higher than it was where they came from. Although they may have had good education and good jobs, their standard of living on cash benefits is much higher than it was where they come from. So there are still incentive problems in the cash assistance system, even after this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142654	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142654-2	I don't really think so, sir. Joachim B. Olsen answered my question. What I am referring to is the answer that we received from the Ministry of Finance yesterday, which shows that and now I am going to go into Mr Beazley's question. Joachim B. Olsens's terms are that there are 14,000 Danes who will lose money by going to work and that there are 37,000 who have a prize of less than DKK 1,000. By going to work. Today there is, and there will be, both when we have introduced the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits, and therefore the question is this: the consequences of this ceiling on cash benefits are that a lot of people become poorer and that they will have more difficulty paying their homes, but that does not change what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's point of view is that it must be worthwhile to work. So how much further down that track do we have to go, and how much longer will the Danish People's Party in hand cut further in the benefits for Danes on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142745	It's not just a matter of cutting cash benefits. We have also said openly that we think that in the case of some of these groups there should also have been a start on the cash benefits themselves. Because we have the oddity in the Danish cash assistance system that if you are a married couple, you just get double cash benefits, while in all other contexts we say that when you are two, there are some economies of scale, etc., and then there should be a reduction in one spouse's cash assistance. It is a peculiarity that exists only in our system, but it must be solved first and foremost by facilitating tax relief at work. There we have put forward a fully funded plan, calculated by the same Ministry of Finance, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen refers to, and here we have found funding to ease the tax, so that no one pays tax on the first DKK 7,000 they earn. That would solve the problem, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142839	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142841	Thank you. It's kind of on the same street. The logic here is that lower benefits will increase the difference so that it will pay better to take a job, and that will then give an incentive for more people to go out and take a job and then increase employment. That logic presupposes that wages do not go down. Now I have a discussion paper published by the Economic Council on 7 October 2015, and the summary says: "A derived effect of lower public benefits is also that the wage level is pushed down. In practice, unemployment benefits and cash benefits are lower than wage levels in the labour market. If the level of benefits is reduced, it will therefore draw in the direction of reducing the lowest wages. In other words, when the lowest wages now follow down the CEPOS has also documented that the difference is minimized again, and then the question is quite simple: How much difference should the difference be? Because I assume it has to follow the logic here, that then the benefits will have to go even further down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317142940	One could say that it was based on the cash aid that the previous government introduced for the under 30s. As has been said, the Social Democratic Party has also said that we have a level of cash benefits that applies to the under 30-year-olds. Let us now say that this level should also apply to the more than 30-year-olds. Well, the difference between 31 years and 29 years isn't that big. If we now allowed the reform of the Social Democratic Social Fund to apply to everyone, I think the wise men said that it would increase employment by between 4 000 and 5 000, as far as I remember. I think that's what that report says. So that would be about ten times what this adjustment of the cash benefits brings. It is true, then, that, as the wise men say, if you lower transfer income, wages will follow down everything else equally, but it is not the people who are at work today who will get lower wages. They want the same salary. This will mean that some people will enter the labour market who cannot now enter the labour market because they are not productive enough to receive the minimum wage that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143053	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143055	Yes, if that was the logic of the labour market, but it is not. We have a labour market where 75%. the formation of wages is carried out by the individual enterprise. What we have seen during the crisis is, of course, that when companies earn less, real wages for the people who are in work have also decreased. This is how the Danish labour market works, so it is not true that the wages of those who have a job cannot be squeezed down if people come from outside and work offers are increased in this way. That is why there is a connection, in relation to what kind of bottom we create below that level of pay, because it is, in fact, also a bottom below that of having a decent life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143130	Yes, within the individual industry, wages can fall depending on whether the wage is adjusted to productivity. That is absolutely correct. But that is not the same as saying that if the agreed minimum wage on the labour market is lower, then the wages of those who work for the minimum wages that are today will follow down. Because that's not how it works. They are precisely productive enough to receive the wages they receive today. Some new people will then be able to enter the labour market, which is not productive enough to receive the current minimum wage, which will be able to gain a foothold in the labour market. It is no coincidence that we are the country with the most people on transfer income. This is due to the fact that Mr. Torben Tranæs, quoted a moment ago, said that we have high minimum wages, and this prevents the least productive from participating in the labour market. I think that's a bad model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143223	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143230	I think it is very important to deal with the consequences of this bill, and that would mean that there are some single parents living in a housing that they cannot afford to live in the future. They can sit down and look at a budget and see that they have to move. And where can you move to get a cheaper home? It may be that you can find a poor accommodation in what are some who call Udkantsdanmark, in some areas where there is very little opportunity to find a job. I do not really see that it is the deroute to be animated by adopting a bill in the Folketing. I'd like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen on where it is that the rapporteur imagines that the people who are hit by the ceiling of cash benefits and who do not just find one of those 650 jobs that the minister thinks are created by this should move to have a roof over their heads? 'Cause if they don't, they're gonna live on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143331	Again, it's not 700 jobs created by this. It is structural employment that is increasing, and that means that everything else will always be 700 more in employment. Personally, I think the figure is getting bigger, but it doesn't matter. The question reflects the fact that the rapporteur sees the housing market as something completely static. So, as far as I remember, there are about 860,000 rentals in Denmark with a rent below DKK 7,000. a month. There are people who migrate and move away all the time. There's a huge dynamic in that. It's true that for a single mother with two kids on cash benefits who, after this ceiling, will get 17,400 kroner. If she has set herself at a rent of 8,000 or 9,000 kroner, it may well be that it will be too expensive, and then she will have to move to something a little cheaper. But there are also citizens in low-wage jobs who cannot afford to sit on such occasions, who also move to something that is a little cheaper if necessary. One must give priority to one's expenditure, and that is fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143448	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143451	I know perfectly well the reality out there. I have also visited a couple of housing associations which are very concerned because many of their current residents cannot just move into one of those cheap homes that the rapporteur refers to. There are simply too few cheap homes in Denmark. They are found in some specific geographical areas, which also have problems with employment. This is obviously more about labour market policy, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur is really doing to talk about the fact that there are all these incentives in the labour market. Has the rapporteur tried to be on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143525	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143529	I used to be an elite athlete. It's not a normal job, I admit. There's a lot of people in here who've come straight from college. I even believe that the rapporteur from the author's own party has very, very limited work experience. But I've been an elite athlete, I had a talent, and I followed that. I made my own money from it. I can guarantee that there was nothing called cash benefits or anything at all. I made money if I could deliver the goods. If I couldn't deliver the goods or if I was injured, I wouldn't get a penny. It's an unusual job I've had, but I've made my own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143607	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143612	Thank you. I did sign up here because I noticed one of the things the rapporteur said, and that was that there were economies of scale living together and being on cash aid, and at least as I heard, there was some surprise on the part of the rapporteur, and I would really like to know: is it the next step of the Liberal Alliance in relation to the recipients of cash aid that we should cut further for couples living together and receiving cash assistance both? So, will you also take the Danish People's Party in your hand and agree to cut further beyond what is being cut now, also for couples who live together?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143652	After all, we have laid out our cash aid schemes freely and, as I said, there are still couples away on cash benefits, married couples on cash benefits, for whom the incentive to be in work is quite small. I still think they have a compensation rate of about 90 percent. There is the paradox in the Danish cash benefits system that you receive double cash benefits. You don't do that in other countries. There you say that when you live together, you have economies of scale in relation to living alone, and therefore there is a reduction in the number two's cash benefits. We do not do that in Denmark. There's just double cash benefits, and I think you could address that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143734	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143736	I am also saying this because I have previously read one of the rapporteur's distinguished party colleagues write that this is about it... I'm sorry, I don't know, but there is something going on here. Fourth Vice-President Can we have some rest in the Chamber so that the questioner and rapporteur can concentrate. Thank you). Thank you. I'll try. One of the rapporteur's distinguished party colleagues has previously written that making it easier to be a single parent, there are also more who will be, but now I understand that the line from the Liberal Alliance is that you will make it harder to be a cash aid recipient, give less subsidies if you live together, and thus make it easier to be a single parent. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143822	I didn't hear the question. Can the rapporteur not repeat the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143827	Repeat the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143830	The reason I asked was that one of the rapporteur's distinguished party colleagues has previously written in a book, that if you make it easier to be a single parent, there are also more single parents. It saw the party comrade in question as a negative development, and then I just want to know whether it is the Liberal Alliance's line now that less money will be given to those who live together, thus making it easier to be a single parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143853-2	Well, what you support, you get more of it. That's why, sir. Kaare Dybvad's party is willing to spend 17 billion. kr. a year at windmills. Because then more wind turbines will be built. When you make it economically attractive to be single instead of being married or living together as a couple, then there are also more who will choose it on the marginal. There are all kinds of things that are involved, of course there are all kinds of things. But all the other things being equal: If you do something more economically attractive, you will get more of it. We have seen this in Denmark. We have seen that there has been an increase in the number of people who choose to have children alone and so on. It may be due to all sorts of other things that are quite right, but I actually think we have a system in which people in many ways discriminate between couples and those who live alone. You support being alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317143950	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur, sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317144013	I'm sorry if my cold makes it hard to hear what I'm saying. Today, if you press the green button, you make the parents of 34 500 children poorer. You make 30,000 benefit recipients poorer. You create poverty and impoverishment and misery, and all that to create 700 jobs. I guess it could have been made a little more elegant. I wonder if we could have found a way of communicating 700 jobs without pushing down the minimum wage in Denmark without taking hundreds of millions of dollars from cash benefits recipients, some of whom are likely to be used for top tax relief? Today, however, is a special day because it marks the countdown that we can have the cash benefits ceiling removed from the table again. I look so much forward to myself if I do not, then another politician from the Alternative will have the opportunity to take the happy walk up to this platform to tell the country's cash aid recipients that the cash aid ceiling has been scrapped. When the debate has waved today, there is one thing I have noticed and which I will just mention. It is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who believes that it is not right that people who are unable to work should be on cash aid and that the government should take action to ensure that this does not happen. We find this very interesting in the alternative, and it is not polemical. We would very much like to be involved, for example. to stop people on resource courses, which I know are exempt from the ceiling of cash benefits, being on cash benefits if they have no significant working capacity. Then we can look later at what it takes to have a significant ability to work and how many of the work preparations do not have it. But we are certainly looking forward to discussing this in committee. In conclusion, the whole process of the cash aid ceiling has confirmed us in the alternative that a system of cash assistance with coercion and control and mistrust does not belong in this country where we are world champions of trust. In the middle of the discussion of the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule here in the Danish Parliament, we have held a confidence parliament in the Alternative, where we have looked at the new role that job centres and case workers must play in a cash assistance system carried by trust. As much as it scratches our fingers in the Alternative to bury the cash aid ceiling as deep as we can, as much as we look forward to carrying confidence into the cash aid system. We call it cash assistance without counterclaims. I would like to thank the centre-left parties for having fought hard and fiercely against the modern cash aid ceiling. When so many talented people are ready to use so much resources to fight for some of the most vulnerable citizens in this country, hope is lost in the long run or perhaps before we believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317144307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317144331	There are some things that do not change, and it is actually rather awkward when the thoughts go to the right, because their policy is, as always, to smooth the way for those who have so much in advance and to tighten their feet for those who have the least. There's bruises on the little ones in the community. At the same time, the right wing is trying to put a smokescreen over this bill. Is that to get more people into jobs? I don't think so. For even the Ministry's own optimistic figures show virtually no effect. But at the same time I must say that if you have the right tools at the right time for the right people, you can bring about change. And sometimes it can help to give another person a push. But if you're not able to move, a push will just lead to a fall. Is it to get 500 million? kr., which one can sew into the mattresses to later this year use them for bribery to the parties that will give less to the community through the tax? Probably. Is it to push down the minimum wage? Yes, that is certainly one of the reasons. That is also why it is the Danish Employers' Association which, as the only organisation, supports this bill. They simply cannot wipe the laugh of the faces over in the employers' association. It is often the lowest paid who are used as an argument for hitting the recipients of cash aid, but not a single low-paid person gets it a snuff better by kicking a cash aid recipient, and after a while the same low-paid person will get their salary pressed, and then the right wing can start again with their old, angry arguments. One thing is certain: those who have the least are being played off against each other and, while both of them are losing weight, employers are licking their mouths. But perhaps it is not at all these three reasons that are the most important. It is probably more the story of so-called reasonableness that is clearest. The driving force is, in fact, much more about the fact that, for various reasons, when citizens may have to receive help from society, they on the right get so terribly hurt in the body part that is highest when you pick strawberries. This liberalist pussy policy is equally unspeakable and unsavory. The vast majority of cash benefits recipients are unable to adapt to economic pressure by simply going out and finding themselves to work. They cannot, so to speak, walk away from the economic whip. In that situation, the deterioration simply leads to poverty, apathy, upsetness and isolation. Today, eight organisations, and it is eight organisations all working in caring for children, send an appeal through the daily press not to adopt the bill. Many disabled people are hit hard economically when they cannot find a job and housing becomes too expensive. The Danish Parliament has been warned in good time about this legislation by a large number of disability organisations, and today the Spasticers Association is sending...
ParlaMint-DK_20160317144716	I would just like to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber while you find your place, in respect of the rapporteur on the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317144719	Today, the Spastic Society, through the media, sends a call from reality, as they call it, to the Danish Parliament that the law is being scrapped. Many people with disabilities are looking for work, but far too few companies open their doors. And how will financial punishment lead disabled people, who are already looking for a job, to knock even more vigorously on the closed doors of companies? After all, poor conditions for disabled people do not create a more inclusive labour market. If there is a need for financial incentives, surely it must be to the municipalities and to the companies. 500-600 Danish war veterans will lose up to 2,000 kroner. a month. A lynx in the back is a rather distinctive kind of medal of merit to say thank you for the effort on. Then you can simply change housing, as the Minister says, but the cheap housing is in those places where unemployment is highest and we are equal. The right wing clearly believes in miraculous financial incentives with built-in spells that both provide the necessary jobs and help sick people into jobs. But one apparently also believes in such extraordinary magical swings that can cause the deaf to hear and limbs to grow out and people with adhd and soldiers veterans with stress and depressions to relax wholeheartedly and focus on having a job. Over the past few weeks, we have had a strong focus on people talking with two tongues. Quite rightly, many people have been outraged by double - tongued answers to simple questions. I think we're all tired of explanations and incoherent excuses. As I am sure you have figured out, I am talking here about the Danish People's Party, a party that likes to be on solemn occasions and then, especially in election campaigns, beats its chest and jumps up like a lion with the defence of people who are dependent on a helping hand from society. But after trying, the party was trained by the government and fell so appropriately here up to the holidays • down like a pile-cut, right-wing Easter lamb. So much for having voted for the Danish People's Party. This has been the undressing of a party that sometimes tries to portray itself as such a slightly different party that does not just run the usual business of the right. A speech on the outside in election campaigns and another speech behind the veil when negotiating with the government. Now the Danish People's Party just sounds like an echo of the Treasury's Excelark, while the monotonous ravels memorize about financial incentives. Here in the Assembly Hall we have seen them sit and cradle back and forth with their heads, sprang out incoherent sentences from the Ministry's economic-religious texts. So much for a party revealed in one untrustworthy breach after another. One day the Danish People's Party tries to stand out from the rest of the right by showing a little bit of social conscience. Today they participate in handing out the blue bully bank to citizens who have ended up at the bottom of society and on the edge of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145049	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145053	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to express his view on something. It has not come to no one's mind that the Ministry of Finance has answered a number of questions, and the answer to Question 76 of the Committee on Finance has filled a lot in the debate, but the Minister for Employment has not yet replied to Question 30 of the Committee on Finance, which was asked on 3 November last year, that is to say more than four months ago. In this connection, the Bureau has said that it would have been appropriate to have it answered before the second reading. This is a decision taken by the Bureau yesterday. But that is not the case; we have not been given the answer to this question, which, among other things, is not the case. is about the local community distribution of children affected in relation to the many issues that have been about poverty. So I shall just hear the rapporteur when we do not have the opportunity to put the question to the Minister, whom I understand is not going to go to the platform, whether it is satisfactory for the Folketing that it has not been answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145159	No, it's completely next door. We are talking here about a law that will probably just be described in the heading form of • adversely affect the terms of 30,000 people, and 14,000 people are facing the postponement of their accommodation. And then you take it so leniently that you don't deliver the answers. However, I think it might remind you of this with the use of incentives, given that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht asks. We have seen that months have passed when we have not been able to pull ourselves together to get the answer, but then Mr. Benny Engelbrecht complained to the Bureau, went one day for one of the questions, and then came the answer. So in some contexts, incentives work. Here it was a complaint from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who, after all, had some effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145236	Thank you. And the next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145241	Now the left has simply done what they could to muddle the whole debate, and I have to say that when I hear the rapporteur standing on the platform, I become almost nostalgic, because it reminds me of such a 1st May speech in the 1970s with a lot of Marxist slogans with no substantial content. What I just want to ask is a simple question, but first of all I would like to stress that we went to the polls at this cash aid ceiling and we stand by the promises we made in the election campaign. So I would like to ask substantively: is it not true that this bill means that it has to be clarified whether people are too sick to work and that no sick people are sent to work? Is that right, or is it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145333	Now there were a few questions in it, but I would say that it is a very formal way to say that the Danish People's Party has said that you will not cut the cash aid, and I think that it may have an academic interest at the theological institute somewhere, whether you take from the cash aid itself, or you take from the benefits that come with it. For whoever gets hit by it has the exact same meaning: okay, you didn't take the money from my right pocket, you took it from my left pocket instead. But the man is equally poor for that reason. So it doesn't make any sense. What was the second question? I'm gonna get that. Several questions were asked at once. It can then come in the next round). It's coming back. Let me have it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145414	So there's another round for Mr. Kim. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145416	But that is simply the problem. The rapporteur does not listen to arguments at all. It's just such a self-propelled machine where you stand and debate with yourself, in terms of what you want this bill to look like. After all, there is no substantial content in it. Well, that sucks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145440	I guess it was just a ruffle I got there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145446	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145449	When the rapporteur asked me questions when I stood on the platform, Mr. Karsten Hønge my honesty. Then I hope I can have the same honesty. This allowance ceiling means that a single mother on cash benefits with two children gets DKK 17,400. paid out. The rapporteur must then think that is too little. Isn't that right? You need more than 17,400 kroner. paid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145522	Now we've had a very long exercise in all sorts of numbers. What I can say is that we do not believe that there is any reason to increase the amounts we have in the current legislation. On the other hand, it is not related either to getting people into work or to creating more fairness, that you then reduce benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145544	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145545	But can the rapporteur not just answer yes or no? This is about what the cash benefits are. It's about numbers. It's crowns and ears. So when you get the cash benefits ceiling you get 17,400 kroner. paid as a single mother on cash benefits with two children, the rapporteur just has to say that that is far too little. That must be what the rapporteur thinks. That's far too little.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145618	Yeah, but that's the usual manipulation of the numbers. In other words, you can find a certain family structure in a particular place in the country with a certain housing benefit that makes you rise to a relatively high figure. Similarly, between 500 and 600 veterans can be found, some of which will be affected by a reduction of DKK 2,000. a month. See, now I'm not saying that it's all 5-600 soldier veterans who get hit by a 2,000 kr impact. a month, but some of them do. And the same goes for the manipulated numbers, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen uses that in very special situations you get an amount which is what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentions, in other situations it is much smaller.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145653	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Well, then, sir. Pelle Dragsted signed up as a privateist, but I don't see him. Yeah, there he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317145710	Thank you. I was in the wrong place, too. When I take the floor as a privateist, it is because I think that in this debate figures and examples are being thrown around which I think are deeply misleading to the public. When you hear many of the right-wing rapporteurs, you get the impression that cash aid recipients live a life of economic luxury and that for unemployed Danes there is virtually no benefit in taking a job. The figures that rush through the air and which are unfortunately reproduced quite uncritically in the media are, like many of the figures that come from this government, very creative and very imaginative in their calculation methods. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. It is not mentioned that the amounts paid to the recipients of cash benefits also include housing insurance, which is linked to the rent paid to them, and it is not mentioned that it also includes the child benefit paid to employees. You leave the impression to the public that this amount of DKK 17,000. they can go home and compare with their paychecks, and that is definitely wrong and misleading. For this is a much lower level of cash assistance and some benefits to which other people are also entitled, including those of the low-paid Danes. Then we get these numbers that are before rent. But the interesting thing is what the families have at their disposal after the normal fixed costs have been paid. Let's take the figure of 17,400 kroner. And look at the cost of a single mother's apartment with two children. Yes, it is certainly not less than DKK 7,000-8,000, and then follows the costs of electricity, water, heat, insurance, license and all the other fixed expenses we have. What does the single mother have left after that? Yeah, she might have somewhere between $6,000 and $8,000. back, to cover the costs of food, winter clothes for the kids, to cover the bill for the football club, which has to pay for birthdays, holidays, Christmas and all the other things that are important for having a fair life. I think it would be a good exercise if some of the well-paid members of this thing themselves tried to think about whether they could handle this month's expenses with that money. Then you also say that it is not worthwhile to work, and you give examples that it is only DKK 600. for a single breadwinner, and here again the Ministry has made a creative calculation that shows that the difference is so small, but in order to arrive at the result, one compares with a salary of 17,700 DKK. When we then ask the Minister how many Danes actually have such a salary, we are told that it is quite a few thousand Danes, and that is because the salary you actually get, even if it is an agreement, is not just the minimum wage, but it also includes the sixth holiday week and various supplements. So it is a wrong picture that is being drawn, and it is also clear from the answer that has come that the average win is over DKK 6,000. The fact is that for the vast majority of Danes it is worthwhile to work, but one compares a tiny group, namely the 14,000, which earns less than DKK 1,000. in a job, and of them the vast majority are in work. But it is still this small group that is being used to argue that there is a general problem and to hunt down the small group you are now making 30,000 unemployed poorer. When we talk about incentives, the right wing also forgets to tell about all the other benefits that are going from cash to work. As an employee, you must save, as a social worker you must not own more than DKK 10,000, as an employee you must own a holiday home, a colonial garden house or a car, but you must sell it as soon as you get cash benefits. And as an employee, you save up for pension and holiday money, and you earn benefit rights. Where did that information go? I'll ask the right. It is also deeply misleading when the right is talking about passive support, it is as if they have forgotten that they themselves have introduced a demand for the so-called utility job or exploit jobs, which is actually the right term. For a useful job, you work 37 hours a week for your cash assistance; here in Copenhagen you are set to pick willow herb out on Amager Common. So in reality Denmark is not the choice between a job and a luxury life at home on the couch, but it is between a real job with a real salary, with the right to benefit, with a pension, with holidays on the one hand and an underpaid exploitable job on the other. That's reality. Many on the right would benefit from even trying just a few months on cash benefits. Because then I think it would look different in terms of the sense of reality and the arrogance in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150205	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150209	The minimum wage on which we are based is the minimum wage that is based on when someone has to have access to the benefit system. It is therefore the minimum wage that the trade union movement says you must have before you can enter the benefit system. It is reasonable that we should base ourselves on the same minimum wage in both systems. I think it makes sense to do that. So I would also say that when we compare it with what a person in work has available to himself, we have also included all the grants, etc., and that is a completely one-to-one comparison. So when it's the case that a single mother on cash benefits with two children today has 20,300 kroner. It is true that it is with child benefit and everything else, because you live on your entire income, and a person working for the minimum wage has 21,800 DKK. paid out. It's a completely one-to-one comparison, and it's the most transparent comparison you can make with all the things that of course are in this. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150314	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150314-2	It's just a hammering frivolous comparison. For the figures you compare with • and it also gives the answer to the second • is a minimum income of DKK 17,700. Firstly, it is a very small group of Danes who have that income. I really believe that the rapporteur knows very well that an agreement not only fills a page which says that the minimum wage is DKK 17 700, but it takes up a good number of pages because there are a number of other rights, for example. The sixth holiday week, which you can get paid, which has not been spoken to here. And there is, for example. a pension fund that has not been talked to and there are a number of other privileges that result from having a job, and therefore it is a frivolous comparison. I wish we could get a little honesty into this debate, rather than constantly choosing the figures that might give the impression that the people who are affected by unemployment in our society, especially after the crisis, including the veterans who have been out, because we have asked them to solve dangerous tasks for us, must be made poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150414	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150416	What is reasonable when it comes to making comparisons is that we are starting from the agreements that are in the labour market and when we want people to enter the labour market, including with this ceiling on cash aid, it is precisely because, once you are there, you are moving quite quickly towards a higher salary. But what people compare it with is what actually enters their account every month, and it is true that there is a pension and everything else. But does the rapporteur honestly believe that this is what people always think of in the current situation when they assess: what do I get out of it right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150457	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150459	I think people think about a lot of things. I think people are thinking that they would like a real job with real colleagues instead of picking willow herb out on the Amager Common. I think people want to be free from that suspicion every day from that side of the House. I think people want to be free that they can't go to their mother's funeral because then they get pulled into cash benefits, as we heard the other day. I think people would like to live a life of dignity, because what you have created is an unworthy life for the people in Denmark who are affected by unemployment and disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150537	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then I should like to ask if there are any more who wish to speak. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150549	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I note that the vote is closed. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150634	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150657	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 7 (LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150743	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317150805	Denmark must help people on the run. People fleeing death and destruction, war and strife are entitled to our protection. But it is also clear that the many people who come to our country in these years, the many refugees who choose Denmark to be the final destination for their escape, are a challenge ■ a very big challenge. That's why we need to think. We must establish a balanced policy so that, on the one hand, we bear our share of responsibility and help people in need, but at the same time do so to a degree that is realistic. We need to be able to keep up. That is why we Social Democrats have also helped tighten Danish asylum legislation with the aim of bringing down the number of asylum seekers in our country. But what about those who are coming? What about those who actually have to be in Denmark? How do we treat them? The answer is that they must be integrated for themselves and for the sake of society. No one benefits from being passive, everyone has the best of being part of a community, having a job, having a network; it gives identity and joy of life. And it is clear to society as a whole that it is much better if as many people as possible contribute instead of being on support. That is why we Social Democrats will also go a long way to get people into work. Everyone who has followed the debate will know that we have put forward a large number of proposals to ensure the employment of more refugees. Why, then, do we not support this proposal? We do not do so for two reasons. Firstly, the employment effect will be very low. It's not guesswork or gut feeling. We know that because you've tried it before. Secondly, it will have a very damaging effect on integration. It will create poverty and push families into poverty. Again: It's not something we think it's something we know, because you've done it before. We Social Democrats recognise that there are huge socio-economic costs involved in receiving as many refugees as Denmark does in these years, and we have also said that we would very much like to be involved in discussing the amount of benefits paid. Unfortunately, the government did not want a debate with us on this. Instead, we have ended up with this proposal, which is ineffective when it comes to the employment rate, but harmful when it comes to integration. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151047	Can the rapporteur elaborate on how he can say that he knows it will create poverty? I know it is not to turn into poverty if you enter the labour market and get a job, and that is the purpose of the integration benefit. And without one hundred percent being able to draw parallels to the start-up aid, the start-up aid in the '00s was actually called a success if one looks at the purely employment part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151113	Yes, it is possible that Mr. Marcus Knuth knows someone who has called it a success. However, it is also very easy to point out to people who have said that it was a failure both in isolation from the employment effect, since it was quite small, but certainly also in relation to the impact it had on integration. If sir... Marcus Knuth had informed himself of this in the many hearings that have been submitted, he would see that it is quite well documented that integration was affected and that children's families in particular were hit very hard. Some of the examples that have been highlighted are that many families could not afford the children to go to leisure activities • something that we know is very, very damaging to integration if you cannot. We know that the possibility for families to change wardrobes to their children was adversely affected, for example. was winter. That is also why we proposed that, if we insisted on introducing this benefit, we should supplement with some opportunities for families to be helped, for example. to buy winter clothes for their children. But, unfortunately, even that was not the case, the Left could support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151215	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151216	But now it wasn't just someone I knew, it was the Rockwool Foundation who called the startup aid a success if you look at the employment part. But what bothers me about this whole discussion is that it sounds as if the rapporteur is assuming that the benefits of integration are something one is just on permanent. After all, the purpose of the integration benefit is to be on it for a short time until you enter the labour market. Does the rapporteur not think that the best way to integrate is the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151244	Indeed, if the rapporteur had listened to my speech, the rapporteur would know the answer to that question. I said quite clearly that this is one of the most important things. Now Mr. Marcus Knuth Rockwool Foundation. After all, it is also the Rockwool Foundation which has said that there are very major negative integration effects of such a performance. And there is only one thing we have to say: despite the fact that there is a small amount and we recognise that, but we are simply saying that it is very small employment effect, so the very, very small effect is not worth taking into account because of the very, very negative consequences it has for integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur who has asked to speak is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151328	A few minutes ago, Parliament adopted the so-called cash aid ceiling. I think it is a spiny and misleading name because it sounds like you could get an infinite amount of money before, but that was not, of course, the case, and the ceiling on cash aid just means that people are getting poorer. Exactly the same thing will happen when this bill is passed. This is also a real spin word. Integration benefits, excuse me, this legislation has nothing to do with integration. This legislation will mean that thousands of people are thrown into poverty, that even more children in Denmark will grow up in families where you are concerned about whether you can pay the rent at the end of the month. Here, as a child, you see Mom and Dad wrinkling their foreheads because they wonder if they can pay the electricity bill, and all the stuff about birthdays and social events is out of the question. In fact, we are dealing here with legislation that makes people even poorer than the ceiling on cash aid. I would like to know who it is who thinks that poverty creates good integration, because all those who work with integration say that this is just going to cause bigger problems. The social workers have clearly warned against this and have said that their efforts to welcome refugees in the municipalities will be considerably more difficult when people are isolated in poverty and that this legislation will be the consequence. What is the experience of the last time they did so? The experience is that quite a few extra jobs came into work. The vast majority just became poorer with significant social problems. Why, then, is it that there are politicians who can think of repeating such violent mistakes that not only had serious consequences for the individual, living people, but who also had serious consequences for the whole of Danish society, because they put their feet on integration? Now that we know from the last time, attempts were made to plunge refugees into poverty with the so-called start-up aid... another spin-word, start-up aid... that it didn't work and that the result was poverty and isolation, why do it again? I have heard two arguments. One argument from the right has been: but we must scare the refugees away from Denmark; it should not be attractive to come here. I mean, that's a strategy you can think about what you want. I think it is relatively unsympathetic to have that approach to a world-historical refugee crisis. But even if you thought that way, that argument does not make any sense in relation to this legislation, because this is about making people who are already here, refugees who have already come to Denmark, poorer. The second argument I have heard is that it will get people to work. Well, it's a crazy logic if you think about it: if you just make these people poor, they get to work. Well, then we could give 'em 0 kroner, and then they'd all get to work, right? Of course, that is not the case. As I said, the experience of last time is massive poverty. This time a written question has been put to the Minister about how many people are expected to get into work as a result of this law. The government hasn't even wanted to count on that. And I don't think it's because the government knows very well that this doesn't mean more people at work, but it just means poverty. Then there are the municipalities. The government, I think, has an extremely sad tendency not to listen. Children's organisations are not listened to when they say that because of this law children will grow up in poverty, that they will have more difficulty becoming part of Danish society and that they will have more difficulty getting by. Social workers are not listened to when they say that their work on integration is becoming more difficult. Nor are the municipalities listened to when they say: we do not have housing in which these refugees can live; so, if you give people such low benefits, we simply do not have the homes where we can let these refugees live. Why don't you listen? Why can we not see that we are sending out a huge problem to the mayors of the country and to the many citizens who are in the municipalities? And there are others who lack cheap housing. This problem is getting even bigger now for everyone in Danish society when you say to the refugees: you're going down on this extraordinary low performance. I really feel that even if you were whistling indifferent to the refugees, even if you felt that they should be allowed to grow up in poverty, then we do not care that their children cannot participate in social life and do not care that their children should be worried about whether their mother and father can have food on the table, this does not make any economic sense, because in the long run there will be a huge bill to be collected if the integration of the refugees that are coming now does not work. What we are doing now is putting our feet on that integration. In other words, the draft law we are discussing today will not only have profoundly serious consequences for people who have fled from war and come here, have been recognised as refugees and need our protection; it will also have profoundly serious consequences for Danish society, because it will be significantly more difficult for Denmark to integrate refugees when they are isolated into poverty. The only consequence of this bill is that refugees are isolated in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151938	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317151944	Denmark is one of the poorest countries in integrating people from third countries, refugees, into the labour market. At the same time, we are one of the countries with the highest benefits at all. Maybe we're the country with the highest performance. There is therefore no link between high benefits and being able to get immigrants into the labour market. That is quite clear. So now I would like to ask Enhedslisten: what exactly are you going to do to bring immigrants from third countries' employment rates up to the level of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152028	I would like to begin by saying: what if the world were as simple as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's thinking. I mean, what if it were really so easy to get people into work that if you just took the money from them, they'd put such hocus-pocus spells into jobs. How nice that would be for all of us. That is not the way things are. Is there any indication that more refugees are going to work by making them poorer? No, the experience, from the last time you went into this, namely with the start-up aid, was that the employment effect was small. The vast majority of the people who were hit by these cuts just got poorer. They just got harder to make life stick together. I would like to do more to enable refugees to get to work, but I do not believe for a second that the tool is to isolate refugees and their children in poverty. One of the things I would like to do is to make demands on employers in Denmark. Maybe I can answer it in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152132	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152134	It was a long talk without coming to the very concrete solutions. Now it was something about making demands on employers. That is to say, the reality is that we are one of the countries worst able to integrate refugees and immigrants into the labour market. There's a terrible statistic on it. If you look out into the world and look at the countries that are better at it, you just have to see that there are barriers to entering the labour market also lower in terms of pay. So now I ask again: the Enhedslisten would like to have very, very high services in the international context, but what exactly are you going to do to get refugees into the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152218	It may be, sir. Joachim B.. Olsen thinks it's a long way, but I think it's very central. It is absolutely crucial to me that the world is not as simple as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is trying to interpret it, that is, the thing about taking the money from people means that people get to work. That's how it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that a bus ticket costs the same for a refugee on cash benefits as for a Dane on cash benefits, that the football quota to the football club costs the same for children of refugees as for children of Danish cash aid recipients. How do we get people to work? Too many jobs are filled in Denmark by among others. Eastern European labour force, without the job ever being opened up in Denmark, for example. has called the Danish Job Centre. I think we could do something about that. We solve nothing by isolating people into poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152306	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152312	I think it is wonderful if we have a diverse labour market. That is what this proposal must help to promote, namely that more refugees are entering the Danish labour market. And I am actually surprised that the Enhedslisten, which also speaks a lot on festive occasions about diversity, does not really have any proposals on how refugees enter the labour market community. There are two things we know to work: it is increased growth and it is lower benefits. These are the two best things in order to get refugees to have a higher employment rate, and the Enhedslisten consistently rejects both. Besides branding the suggestions of others as unsympathetic, what suggestions do you have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152400	Once again, I would recommend that, if you need to talk to each other, you pull aside out of respect for the rapporteur on the platform and out of respect for those people who actually want to hear what is being discussed in this Chamber. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152415	As I have replied to Mr. Joachim B.. Olsen, I think it is a problem that many jobs in Denmark are filled without ever having been posted in Denmark, that many jobs are filled without the employer having bothered to contact the local job centre. I think that we could get many more both Danes and refugees in Denmark to work if we acted in relation to that problem. In addition, the stupidest thing we can do is push people even further away from the labour market. You do that if you place refugees in poverty. And the price of diapers, oatmeal and bus tickets is exactly the same for refugees living in Denmark as for you and me. And therefore it makes no sense to say to refugees who come here: you must live for even less than everyone else. The only result is that these people are isolated, thereby pushing them even further away from the Danish labour market than they already are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152523	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152525	Well, they're supposed to get a job. The dumbest thing to do is to exclude people from the labour market, said Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen. That is the dumbest thing and that is what has been done so far. That is because we are a low-growth country, and that is because too high benefits are provided. That is why we are now doing something about the benefits, and we hope that someday we will be able to persuade the government to do something about growth. The Enhedslisten rejects both. You talk about new bureaucracy, you talk about clienting people, but that is not the answer to how to get people into the working community. I think it is so antisocial and so debilitating to want to ensure that refugees remain on passive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152614	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152615	The point is that people get to work, says Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I think everyone in this Parliament is thinking: how wonderful it would be if there were 0 per cent unemployment in Denmark. I think everyone knows that's not gonna happen. I think it is naive to think that the way to get people into work is to make them poor. Well, if it was really that simple, we could say that refugees should have 0 kroner. To live for, because then they got to work. Can the rapporteur remember the allowance reform? We were told that if only we made life harder for the unemployed, they would all get to work. 2,000-4,000 would get out of the system, but a lot of people would get into work. It didn't happen. And that's because the world is not as simple as the Liberal Alliance is trying to pretend it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152708	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152712	Now we have four times heard from the rapporteur what is wrong with our policy. Could we not know what the Enhedslisten's policy is to improve the employment of refugees and immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152730	I'd love to. First and foremost, we want to strengthen Danish education. I think it is absolutely crucial that we ensure that Danish education is working from the outset. Then we will ensure that more jobs are actually created in Denmark, also for people who cannot deliver one hundred percent from day one. And this is a problem that we have on the Danish labour market: not only for refugees, but also for Danes: that the demands are very high, so that those who cannot deliver one hundred percent from day one have very difficulty finding a way in. So may I say that I think it is a problem that we very often experience employers who raise the phone, call the temporary agency in Lithuania and get labour on that road before they have taken the trouble it would be to call the local job centre and ask: is there someone available in my local area who could fill a job here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152821	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152823	I understand that if you're not quite ready, you have to have the chance anyway. Does this mean that Enhedslisten is in favour of some form of integration pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152835	We are in favour of internship schemes and we are in favour of support schemes that reward employers who take responsibility. But, of course, it has to be done in a way that does not shift ordinary jobs. So, this is the dilemma or the discussion that is on the Danish labour market as a whole: how do we create opportunities in the labour market, including for those who cannot deliver one hundred percent from day one without changing ordinary jobs? By the way, I would think it was great to hear the Liberal Alliance's response to that, I think, gigantic problem, that we have a great many employers in Denmark who call the temporary agency in Lithuania before contacting the local job centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152917	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317152925	Thank you. As you know, the aim of the draft law is to extend the scope for the reception of integration benefits. The alternative will, in a moment, vote against that enlargement, as we voted against the introduction of the benefits of integration. I presented the background to our position on Tuesday. We do not believe that the marginal employment impact that the proposal is expected to have is matched by the negative consequences of poverty, increased marginalisation and massive housing problems, which a wide range of knowledge professionals in the field warn about. As we see it, the net effect of the proposal we are seeing here, in terms of both the integration of the target group into the labour market and, in general, in society, will be negative. The vast majority of us who are here today share the ambition that refugees coming to Denmark should have a connection with the Danish labour market more quickly and efficiently than today. We must put an end to the unnecessary clientisation that has resulted, unfortunately, from a long-standing misguided concern for the target group and bureaucratic labyrinths. We know that many refugees are highly motivated to become part of the working communities, and that is the energy and will that we in here and in the municipalities must ensure that they are realised. I know that the government is not blind to the importance of making the current employment effort to the target group much better, and I will therefore use the rest of this speech to open other people's eyes to the concrete proposals of the Alternative in this area, which I very much hope we will be able to have debated and developed and qualified in the future. Firstly, the alternative would like to see a massive simplification of regulations in this area, with the aim of facilitating the integration of municipalities and greater flexibility in agreements on business programmes, internships and grant schemes. The ambition must be to make efforts faster and more flexible and adaptable in relation to the individual, which requires better and entrepreneurial cooperation between municipalities, businesses, civilians and actors in the asylum centres. The level of education, professional experience, competences and interests of refugees must be clarified in the asylum phase, so that the individual is visited to a municipality where his or her competences are sought after. In the municipalities, more freedom must be given in the field of integration so that it is possible to organise integration efforts according to local competences and conditions. Bureaucratic rules which complicate and delay the integration process must be abolished or adapted. This applies, for example, to: conditions for being declared job ready, the possibility of moving in relation to jobs, standardised integration plans and the possibility of working already in the asylum phase. Secondly, we should take advantage of the opportunities in that some refugees have experience of running their own business and that Denmark is one of the countries in the world where it is easier to start business. By introducing entrepreneurship as a key integration tool, we can strengthen refugee relations with the local community while promoting innovation, trade and new jobs in the municipalities. Thirdly, a holistic approach to integration into the labour market should take into account the fact that all the touching and admirable efforts that are currently exploding in numbers out in civil society are crucial for integration. The alternative has therefore proposed that representatives of civil society be invited to the trialogue negotiations that are currently taking place. And this should be done with the aim of further supporting and spreading the well-functioning cooperation between civil societies, municipalities and companies, for which there are already good examples. As the fourth and final point I would like to mention here today, I would like to highlight the importance of our willingness to invest in successful integration. The funds we spend on our new fellow citizens must be seen as investments. We believe that the state should spend more money on housing, education, the approval of education provided and the upgrading of refugees so that they can be more quickly integrated into local communities. We have to, for example. offer high school accommodation to refugees as an alternative to a temporary accommodation and waiting position in the municipalities. We need to create a job campus for ready-to-work refugees waiting for a job opening or lack of qualifications to commit themselves at a Danish workplace, and to set up municipal integration centres to work targeted on getting refugees into jobs. These were some of the alternative's suggestions on how we can succeed better with integration into the labour market, which therefore goes in a completely different direction than reducing the benefits of integration. Finally, I want to share my and the alternative's basic approach to this area. In Denmark, we have what it takes to create the world's best integration, and the step we are taking here today, with the reduction and extension of the benefits of integration, is not a step in the right direction, as we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317153420	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We have two other rapporteurs who have asked for the floor, and I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317153438	On Monday, the radical parliamentary group had devoted the day to trying to see if we could learn more about what we could do to help the municipalities with their integration challenges. In particular, the question that is most pressing is how to accommodate refugees who have just arrived in the municipalities. What met us over and over again was the challenges arising from the very proposal for the integration service, which makes it really difficult to achieve what is actually the legislation in force, namely that refugees should be accommodated in a permanent housing facility as soon as possible. For it is just difficult in many places in Denmark to find permanent homes that people on a service that the integration service can pay. That is why laying stones on the road, obstacles to integration, is now expanding the circle of beneficiaries of the integration service. We have also heard in today's debate that many people are rightly criticising the results of the integration efforts so far. After all, we had a period in which this experiment was tried... back then it was called the startup aid... and it's part of the statistics today. In other words, the results of an integration effort based on start-up aid or integration benefit are known because they are the ones that all parties today distance themselves from and say that we must be able to do better in the future. That is why it seems strange to insist on going back to a fuss, in other words going back to a solution which I have been calling on the government, when this bill is adopted by a majority, to immediately start thinking about what can be done to help the municipalities that cannot find permanent housing, head over the head of refugees on integration grants, because refugees simply are not able to pay the rent that is needed for them to be accommodated. It has also been said several times in the debate that this is simply to keep your promises, because it is no secret that the government and its majority carried out an integration service, as was said in the election campaign. And I would like to admit that this is the case. However, as far as the ceiling on cash aid is concerned, which has now been adopted, but also the benefit of integration, it was also accompanied by another promise made by the current Prime Minister in his capacity as President of the Left on a direct television channel on the Prime Minister's post. That was where the discussion fell on the poverty line, which was introduced under the SR government, and about which the current Prime Minister said that you can mean what you want about that limit, but I will never pursue a policy that sends children below that limit. Now the poverty line has been abolished, and that is an honest matter. You can do that when you have a majority for it. But what the Prime Minister promised was that, despite his attitude to the poverty line, he would never pursue a policy that sent children under and it is beyond doubt that when this bill is implemented, the Prime Minister is breaking his promise to those children, because it will surely lead to children living on an income below the poverty line of the previous government. I would therefore just like to say to all those who are now voting in favour of this bill and who refer to the fact that this was also said in the election campaign that, with the pressure on the green buttons, at least the Left breaks a clear promise to the children. You may not care about that for the Left and for our sakes in here, but for the children it means a bad start to life, which we can then use our energy to try to make amends and therefore we are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317153844	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317153851	Thank you. It is quite crazy that the government can adopt so many extremely bad proposals in one day that a proposal that goes as far as this can almost drown in the crowd so that the press hardly has time to write about it because there is so much else to write about. This is a pity, because this proposal is a proposal that has consequences for real, very many people and for our society. It is a proposal that will hit more than 20,000 refugees who have come to Denmark to seek protection from us. Several consultation responses point to the fact that this proposal will lead to increased child poverty. And how will that be manifested? It will be evident that when families are made very poor, they have to cut back on the costs they have. This means that there will be less advice for basic needs such as food, birthdays, sports and leisure activities in general, along with comrades. It will isolate young people because young people suddenly have so little that they will not be able to afford to go out and be social with the comrades of the studies they are going on and that they will not be able to afford to live the same life as the fellow human beings you now have in Denmark. And then it will create a huge increase in inequality in Denmark. So with this proposal and with the proposal on the ceiling for cash aid, which has now been adopted, the government is making Denmark poorer in every way, but then it is convenient that the poverty line has been abolished. However, when I take the floor, it is not just to mention poverty and inequality, although it is something that really concerns me very much. I am quite concerned about the crisis in which I believe that today a majority in the Folketing is throwing the country's municipalities out. According to the National Association of Housing Associations BL, this will mean that a lot of thousands of people will not be able to afford to live in the home in which they now live. It is clear that when people have had some fixed income and sit in an apartment around the municipalities, apartments that I personally know that municipal politicians spend a lot of gunpowder on finding and then you suddenly cut the basis of living that people have, people will have to move. It then comes on a day when the ceiling on cash benefits has been adopted, and the National Association of Housing Associations BL says that it may mean that 14 000 families have to move. It will then come at a time when the municipalities are already heavily pressured to find permanent housing for refugees. The housing company Sjælland has just been on TV 2 saying they can't solve this challenge. Many mayors, including the mayors of the Left, have been out to say that they cannot solve this challenge either. They can't find homes. When I had just been elected as integration rapporteur, I asked the Minister for Integration if she wanted more ghettos in Denmark, and she did not, and I am pleased about that, because I believe that ghettos are really bad for integration. But this proposal will mean that the municipalities will have to take the cheapest housing and place the refugees there, and the people who cannot now afford to live there will also be located in the cheapest area. We know that it is in the ghettos that are around the municipalities that the cheapest homes are. So this proposal and the proposal we have dealt with in the past and the integration benefit proposal that was adopted just before the summer break will create more ghettos in Denmark. And it's striking now that we've just spent several weeks discussing parallel societies, the Grimhøjmoskeen, and how we can strengthen integration and make sure that people get integrated and get out of social control... that this proposal will do all the opposite: it will create more parallel societies in Denmark, and I have not heard a single suggestion as to how the bourgeois wing will provide more housing and prevent more parallel societies. So this proposal creates increased poverty in Denmark and throws our country into a housing crisis. I very much hope that the government, along with the left and the Socialists, will help to find more cheap housing, because that is what is needed out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154317	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154326	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Someone's coming running. That concludes voting time. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 48 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154417	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to make a statement? Yes, the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154439	Thank you. I am speaking here at the third reading because I see in the report that the alternative is concerned about the compliance of the Personal Data Act and compliance with the Data Directive. This is, of course, a legitimate concern which is reflected in some of the consultation answers, but is also addressed in the legislative process. I therefore have to say that I can see that it is important for the alternative to support the bill or not to say that, of course, the provisions of the Personal Data Act will be respected. The things that lie in this are only within the framework of the Personal Data Act, so the concern of the Alternative, which is entirely legitimate, I can say as Minister, as one has wanted, is unfounded. Of course, if the alternative so wishes, I should also like to make it known in writing to the Folketing. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154541	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154549	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 88 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 12 (EL and SF) [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154624	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate on the amendment is therefore closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154658	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (SF), elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of S and SIU), as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154717	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154732	Today I have discussed many different things with the Minister for Justice, but I would like to commend both the Minister for Justice and the government, because it is very rare for a government party to vote in favour of a resolution tabled by an opposition party. So I would like to congratulate you on that, and I really hope that it will set a precedent, so that we can at least vote in favour of the proposals on which we actually agree. Unfortunately, this is not something we have seen very often from any side of the House, but I think it is very positive. Then you can make the little curl on it, that it is a little too bad that we have discussed the cash aid ceiling today, which will also hit 600-700 veterans, but leave it at that. I think that is very positive. This is going to make a concrete difference for these people, for those police veterans who are now getting access to the Veteran Centre in some way, and I look forward to seeing it become a reality. I also think it is very nice that I do not quite understand why the Social Democrats do not want to be involved, but everyone else supports this, and I am very happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154840	With this happy message, unless more people wish to speak, we have come to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154849	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 73 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 28 (S). The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317154925	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? May I have quiet in the Chamber while you leave it! Since no one wishes to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155024	Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155045	Thank you. On the subject of L 84, I propose that the second reading be suspended and that the draft law be referred back to committee by the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155101	The debate on interruption takes place in accordance with the rules on short comments. This one we have here. Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155132	I understand from the representations I have received in this Chamber, while we have been sitting here for quite a long time now, that the reason why we want the legislative proposal back in committee is that the amendments we should have taken a position on raising the speed limits for certain types of vehicles on certain types of road change the legislative proposal so dramatically that we really think that a new consultation process needs to be carried out on precisely those proposals. That is actually something that Enhedslisten pointed out in his report's contribution, so if that is the background to that I think it is, of course, that we would very much like to acknowledge on the part of Enhedslisten that it has been spotted and that it is not acceptable in committee to extend a legislative proposal so dramatically without actually having a new hearing. So if that's what's behind it, then there's great recognition from the Enhedslisten side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155307	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155317	If the vote is not requested, I shall consider the proposal to suspend the debate as adopted. It's agreed. The proposal is now referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155336	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155418	Thank you very much. The draft law here is mainly a re-submission of a proposal with the same content from the previous government and during the last parliamentary term. Minimal adjustments have been made which do not change the fact that the Social Democrats support the proposal. Unfortunately, we know all the people in our close associations who have been ill or injured to such an extent that they have not been able to make decisions themselves, not even about who should make decisions on their behalf. The draft law here introduces a system of future powers designed to strengthen the right to self-determination and make it possible, in safe forms, to influence their own life and future conditions despite illness or other loss of mental capacity, as it is referred to in the draft law. With this proposal, the Danes themselves will be able to appoint one or more future representatives, i.e. future agents, to carry out their economic and personal conditions through illness or impaired mental function, health or the like, which will simply lose the ability to dispose of one's own body, finances and personal relationships. As an amendment, the legislative proposal contains a clarification of the legal effect, and we also support that part, although we must, of course, take care that the system does not become so bureaucratic that few choose to use it. That would be a shame. Therefore, our call to the Minister must also be for us to evaluate the scheme after a few years in order to have an overview of its application, and we would also like to call on the Minister to focus on communicating the possibilities around this opportunity that the future powers actually offer, so that the Danes are aware that it exists, and in particular its importance. So, with these comments, I should like to inform you that the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155616	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155625	Thank you for that, President. It is basically a sensible proposal by the government here on future powers. In situations where one is either on the way to a disease that will slowly blur one's judgment and where one will need others to decide on essential things in life, the proposed system is generally reasonable and seems balanced. It may be very sensible to strengthen the individual citizen's right to self-determination and to be able to determine in a safe and secure manner how one wants to organise that part of life where one is unable to make decisions on one's own behalf. The proposal is about giving the possibility of giving a future authority of private law as an alternative to guardianship. There is a broad aim, and that is to say that persons diagnosed with a disease that will eventually take judgment away from them can draw a future mandate that will allow one or more future administrators to make decisions on economic or personal matters on behalf of the principal. Permission can also be limited, but the target group can in principle be everyone, i.e., everyone. also people who are fresh and healthy and at least 18 years of age and who would like to be prepared for an emergency situation • it may be traffic accidents or other. It is imagined that powers of attorney will be created digitally in a register of powers for the future, and it is important for us, as the proposal also shows, that there are, of course, exceptions for those who do not have the opportunity to do so digitally. After that, the notary must make a statement ensuring that everything is in order, and that is also quite detailed and fine from the proposal itself. State administration will put the powers of the future into effect, and decisions will be recorded in the personal book. Then there is resting supervision, and it seems quite reasonable. It is worth bearing in mind that the proposal stems from recommendations from the Council of Europe and that similar legislation has already been implemented in a number of other comparable countries. We therefore welcome the proposal and look forward to further consideration by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155839	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317155847	How do you regulate your fortune when you're dead? Yes, you can't do it yourself, but you can do it in the form of a will. It has been incorporated for a long time that this must be the case. But there is a period before death, and for some people in recent years there is a dementia or similar condition, and what about it? Yes, there you may have established what is known as a general power, or perhaps you have come under some sort of guardianship. A general authorisation may relate only to the economy under which an agent may arrange for one's financial situation. With a guardianship, you no longer have any influence on who is really being the guardian of you. It will look different with the power of the future, if the power of the future is passed here in the Folketing, what is reason to believe, because then you will suddenly have the opportunity to designate for yourself the one who is responsible for your affairs, both financially and personally. The power of the future is created at home, and it is created digitally and it may well be that it is the grandson who gets into the process of making it. And then it could actually be ready at that time, and that was also what we saw in the previous proposal last year. But the problem is that if we had maintained it, there would have been a risk that some equally legitimate smart person could get past an elderly person and get himself inserted and actually said cheat the elderly, who could not quite grasp the situation. Now we've got a plug in the hole for that. We have now done so in relation to the power of the future that, after it has been created digitally, we have to pass the notary office, that is. the right to change, and then the notary must sign in the power of the future that the creator, the principal, was popularly said to be in his right and could understand what he signed up to, just as is the case with wills today. The authorization shall then be notified in the Register of Powers for the Future and, where the day comes when he has been demented or in a similar state, it shall be for the agent or family to go to the Chamber and have the power of attorney activated. In most cases a medical certificate will be required that the person is demented or in the corresponding condition described in the law, and when that is the case, it is stated in the person's book that this mandate has now been established. And then there is no longer any problem with its use; then the agent has the power of attorney to the bank, to the registration office and to other authorities, and so it is only a question of: what exactly did the authorization say? It is the framework of the mandate that you have laid down for yourself. It is the general rules of power that apply here, and that means that you can write virtually anything in the power of attorney of economic and personal matters. You will have the opportunity to write that the grandson will continue in the years you are demented or that the child will continue in the years when you are demented to receive the duty-free basic amount as a gift if that is what you want. You get the opportunity to write relationships around your house, housekeeping. You get the opportunity to write personal relationships into nursing home choices, if possible, or other personal relationships. So it is quite a sensible arrangement for the powers of the future, which we hope will be adopted here. Last but not least, I have to say that anyone who has given it the power of the future and given it in relation to personal matters, in other words also with the previous amendment which has been incorporated into the draft law here, allows the administrator to give what is called informed consent for consideration. I believe that future powers will be as popular as wills, and indeed I believe that they will be set up at the same time. Whether it happens with a lawyer or at home, I don't know. The power of attorney must at least pass by the notary, and the will must, as a rule, also be passed by, so I wonder if that is not the case. The Left can highly recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall continue in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160327	The rapporteur of the Left has explained very well what this proposal is about, so I will not go along with it, but I will nevertheless take a few seconds to commend it. It is almost a re-submission of something that we had under the previous government. There, of course, was Enhedslisten also positive about it. It is an opportunity to give some self-determination to some people who are going through a very, very difficult time in their lives, for example. a dementia, and a certainty in knowing what the future holds, that there is a person who is trusted, who is there and continues to be there and has the competence to make the decisions that will become important to a human being. This applies to such things as financial arrangements. This also applies to this proposal, which was also introduced with an amendment in the previous draft law we were discussing, namely that health measures can be taken on behalf of the person. It's also really, really important. Imagine how much security it must provide for people, such as: has dementia. Now, as the rapporteur of the Left also explained, there has been a change that we voted down last time, that is to say, a demand that we go in and have a notary approval of the power of the future in the same way as we do with a life testament. The reason why we voted against it last time was that it gives rise to some extra trouble, there is no doubt about that, and we would rather not risk facing a situation in which the power of the future cannot be created, even if one wants to. On the other hand, it is clear that there is also a legal aspect to what is at least being well and thoroughly addressed with the proposal now before us, so it should not stop us from shouting hurrying at the proposal. Congratulations to all the people who benefit from it. We give our full support to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160537	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160549	We have had a very thorough discussion of up to several of the previous items on the agenda, and that is why I will not use all my speaking time. Most of the many good things that have been said about the proposal are in agreement with the Liberal Alliance, which is why we also agree with the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160621	Thank you. The draft law builds, among other things: on a recommendation from the Council of Europe on the creation of powers for the future, and the draft law proposes the introduction of a system of powers for the future, which allows citizens to appoint one or more agents for the future. Such future agent shall be responsible for financial and personal matters if the citizen is no longer able to do so. It deals, for example, with: people who are diagnosed with a diagnosis that means that at some point they will no longer have the ability to take care of their own circumstances, and with this law they will have a greater influence on their own future. The future authorisation system thus strengthens the right of citizens to determine their own lives, regardless of illness or other loss of mental capacity. When you read the consultation answers, the proposal also meets with a great deal of general support. However, I have taken note of the Elders' concern about whether people are able to see such broad areas in the future. And that is where I have taken note of the fact that the state administration must exercise a dormant supervision of the powers of the future and can therefore intervene if, for example, the state administration is to be able to take action. by means of a request becomes aware of facts which are likely to conflict with the interests of the principal. Even as a proxy, you can then decide to put in place what is called active supervision, which then monitors the powers of the future. So on that basis, the alternative to this proposal is. We believe that it is absolutely essential for citizens to have more power over their lives, even after they may have lost their sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160758	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Emrah Tuncer, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160805	Thank you. The Radical Left supports the bill because it addresses a practical and important need of demente and their relatives. It is important that the demented person is given the opportunity at an early stage to give authority to another person when the dementia is so advanced that the dementia patient is no longer in a position to defend his own interests. For me, this is a crucial prerequisite for the timely preparation and organisation of everyday life following dementia diagnosis. Of course, we also support the evaluation of the scheme, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, after two to three years. So we're really positive about the bill, so thank you for that. With those words, of course, we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160849	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317160903	Sometimes it's really hard for people to grow old, and we see more and more people getting dementias, and it hits a lot of families not only those who get dementia, but also their relatives to a large extent. I think most of us in here know or have known someone. This is also true in my family, and I have been able to see from the first parquet how hard it is when things are not under control when nothing has been agreed before it gets that far before it goes so wrong. I therefore believe that this draft law from the Minister for Justice is much more than a technicality; it is a hand-out to those people who end up where, unfortunately, they are no longer in their right mind, are no longer qualified citizens in the sense that they can understand the consequences of their own choices and where others will have to make choices for them. That you can now create a future power that will ensure that, before it comes to this, you can make those agreements, I think, very well. So thank you for that. I think it is going to ease the lives of many people out there, and I think it is going to give a greater degree of dignity to the citizens who will be affected by this, that before it comes to this, they can make decisions for their further lives in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161034	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Conservatives, Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161047	Thank you. We are dealing today with a proposal which will respond to those people who, as such, want to be able to take care of their personal and economic circumstances while they can, so that, when they are no longer able to do so, they have taken the necessary steps. It is good that people, for example. In the case of illness, they know that they end up in need of help, just can identify for themselves who it should be while they are still fresh and ready to make those decisions. It is worthy to give people that opportunity, and it is important, and it is true, that the power of the future must be recognised by a notary, so as to ensure that the best possible courage is given to some people being exploited. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161129	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161144	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for today's debate on the draft law on the powers of the future and, above all, the positive reception. Of course, there could also be some expectation of this, because, as the debate shows, the draft law is a re-submission of a proposal which was being considered by the Danish Parliament when the parliamentary elections were held and then a unanimous Parliament backed the establishment of a system for the powers of the future. Before I turn to the new and improved points in the legislative proposal, I would just like to say that I believe that by introducing this system we are taking an important step in strengthening the right of citizens to control and to maintain influence on their own lives, whether they are ill or weakened. By creating a power of the future, a citizen is given the opportunity to appoint one or more future representatives, future agents, to take care of his or her financial and personal circumstances if, at some point, he or she loses his or her ability because of illness or weakness. This means that a future power will be a private and self-chosen alternative to guardianship. By guardianship, the public decides who should enter. It can be seen as significant intrusive. That is why I believe that for many people there will be a great deal of confidence in planning the future and in identifying in advance someone you trust to take over in relation to decision on economics and care, not least if you have a diagnosis, after which you can predict that within a number of years you will lose the ability to deal with these matters yourself. The scheme can also be seen as a kind of insurance which is relevant for the case that you e.g. because of a traffic accident or major operation, it had to be unable to carry out its own affairs for a shorter or longer period of time. Many may not think that such a situation can arise, but if the situation arises, it will be a great help to oneself and one's relatives that one has sought and organized things in advance as one wants them. The purpose of the draft law is, among other things, to: to ensure that what the principal has determined in the mandate can be put into practice. This can only be done if third parties, for example: banks, may have confidence that the future agent is legitimate to act. This creates the possibility of the proposed system because of the introduction of formal procedures both for the creation and entry into force of future powers in which the public comes in and because the powers of the future become publicly available. The proposed system also makes it possible to appoint a future representative in the personal field, that is to say, to make important decisions about care, care and the like, something that may feel more present than who has to pay your bills. The draft law thus takes account of cases where the general rules on powers do not apply today. Then I will turn to the points where the scheme has been improved compared to the previous legislative proposal. First of all, it is a question of how to establish a power of the future. Instead of having to create the power of attorney exclusively through digital self-service, one must now also pass the notary and acknowledge the power of attorney after having created it digitally. One might ask why it is necessary to include the notary when you can handle many other things, for example. registration of residential businesses, exclusively via digital self-service solutions. The answer is that it provides an additional assurance that the delegate is reasonably able to establish the mandate and is not forced to do so. In this context, it should be borne in mind that the scheme is likely to be particularly widespread among people who, due to age or illness, are weakened. Therefore, for reasons of legal certainty, the public authority should perform a control function, both by setting up and putting into effect a mandate for the future. The draft law also contains, as something else new, an amendment to the Health Act, which was adopted by the Folketing as an amendment to the previous draft law at second reading. In the event of the change, the administrator shall have the power to give consent to processing on behalf of the principal, as well as for example: A guardian can. This will increase the scope of the scheme. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I am, of course, at your disposal to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the committee's examination of the draft law, including the choices made in relation to the individual elements of the scheme, and look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161608	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161624	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice. While the Minister is going up here, I can inform the rapporteurs that I have refused to work together on two motions for resolutions because the desire for co-operation was first raised here while we are on the agenda. And I do not think we can work together on something that has not been published on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317161704	The motion for a resolution instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that victims of crime in Denmark are at least guaranteed the rights deriving from the EU directive on victims of crime in all respects. I can tell you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. This does not mean that the government does not give priority to victims of crime or that we want victims in Denmark to have a worse legal position than the other EU countries, on the contrary. Of course, the government agrees with the proposers that victims of crime should be treated as carefully as possible to take account of the violation suffered by each victim. However, we do not believe that implementing an EU directive is the right way to go. I must also admit that I am somewhat surprised that the authors of the motion for a resolution are tabling a resolution with this content. The authors say, on the one hand, that they do not want Danish legal policy to be established in Brussels and that Denmark should therefore not give up the legal reservation, even in relation to the victim directive. On the other hand, we want to implement the directive as a whole without reservation in Danish law and, therefore, let Brussels define Danish legal policy. As you know, in March last year a majority of Parliament's parties concluded an agreement on an electoral system. The Social Democrats, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party were behind the agreement. In this context, it was the point of reference of the parties to the agreement to opt for legislation which either gave concrete benefits to citizens and businesses or where it was considered to be beneficial for Denmark and actively contribute to the development of the future. On the other hand, the parties to the agreement did not wish to opt for legal acts where the specific advantages, also in conjunction with the costs and resources associated with them, were not large or where it made better sense to regulate itself or where the option would be contrary to Danish legal principles. The parties behind the election agreement chose not to do so in the context of the victim directive. However, it was written into the agreement that the parties agreed to discuss whether parts of the victim directive should be transposed into Danish law. Unfortunately, this has now become a 'no' on 3 December 2015, and the agreement has therefore lapsed in its entirety. The end of the referendum on 3 December and the end of the election agreement does not mean that we suddenly think it is a good idea to implement the EU's victim directive. I also find it difficult to recognise the picture that the authors of the proposals suggest that victims of crime are worse off in Denmark than in the other EU countries. I do not think that is correct. If you look at the overall picture, you can see that in Denmark we are helping victims of crime in a just as good way as other countries, even if the rules of law are not in all cases the same. The question must therefore be whether we should use significant financial and staff resources, for example. in the police and prosecutor's office, to formalise procedures that today work in practice in Denmark, because the EU says so. As the authors also mentioned in the proposal, in the context of the analysis of the victim directive prior to the referendum, it was immediately and with considerable uncertainty that the transposition of the directive into Danish law would entail annual additional costs for the police and prosecutors of up to 16 million. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. I do not think anyone's nose could have passed over the fact that the police and prosecutors are facing extraordinary challenges these years. For this reason too, the government considers it inappropriate to spend up to 16 million. kr. annual budgets of the authorities to implement an EU directive that will not bring significant benefits to Danish citizens. The government would rather target action against victims, so that action is taken where there are real challenges. Danish legislation already contains rules and administrative practices aimed at establishing the framework for the administration of victims. That framework is more based on a concrete assessment of the victims of the individual types of crime and of the needs of the victims, compared to the EU directive, and less on cutting all victims across the board, regardless of needs. I believe that we must continue along this path, in other words where the treatment of victims and the regulation of them are based on a concrete assessment and not on the basis of an EU directive. The government is concerned with ensuring as gentle treatment of victims as possible, and we are constantly aware of where there can be concrete challenges in relation to victims or the group of victims. It is also the approach behind the initiatives we have already taken in this area. This is true, for example. children who have been sexually assaulted and who should not risk sitting face to face with their perpetrator in court. Last November the government put forward three draft laws amending the rules on video questioning to children and young people in criminal proceedings in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The aim was to raise the age limit by which children presumed to be victims of or witnesses of serious crimes can be questioned on video, which is a particularly gentle way of interrogating children. The Danish Parliament has so far adopted the Act for Denmark and the Faroe Islands. In addition, in January, I presented a proposal on respect for the victims of rape, which complements the punishments in this area, on which I have also tabled legislative proposals. The action has been taken on the basis of a thorough investigation into the whole area of rape, with the aim of setting a clear framework for police work on rape cases and ensuring that victims of rape who have been subjected to one of the most insulting and traumatic attacks meet in a dignified and proper manner. Most recently, together with the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality, I have presented the package "Stop Stalking" which includes: ensure victims of stalking security and advice. I therefore believe that this is the path we must take in which, on the basis of thorough ongoing assessments in this area, we take action where it is specifically needed. Therefore, the government will continue to implement the necessary targeted administrative or legislative initiatives in dialogue with the parties of the Folketing to ensure that victims of crime receive the help they need. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162246	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line and the first speaker is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162301	Thank you very much. I would like to start by saying that the Socialists in particular can support this proposal. It is absolutely crucial that we focus on victims of crime, and with the victim package, which was introduced under the previous government, increased attention has been paid to helping victims. There is no doubt that this is an area that we must constantly try to improve, not least across European countries. A very large part of the EU's victim directive already exists in Denmark, several elements even at a higher level than the common EU rules. However, there are also a number of elements that can strengthen the legal position of the victims in Denmark, and that is why we support the proposal. As the Minister said, the parties behind the agreement on the reservation of law back in December last year had just chosen not to include this particular piece of legislation, and, as the Minister himself said, it was also agreed to discuss whether there were parts of the victim directive which were to be transposed into Danish law. I fully agree with the Minister when he says that it was unfortunately a 'no' on 3 December, but let it rest for now. However, I must also add with a glimpse in my eye that I find it rather strange that the Enhedslisten, who is the author of this particular proposal, is incredibly busy fighting the common European initiatives in the area of justice. That is why it may seem rather strange to make a proposal that we should just copy the common goods. Because it is the case with cooperation and so it is also within the EU that you are involved in cooperation if you want to influence it and benefit from it. That's how it works. However, having said that, it should not harm the victims, and so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162455	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next speaker is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162507	The intention behind Enhedslisten's proposal is incredibly sympathetic, for who would not like to do anything good for the victims. The proposal envisages that Denmark should at least meet the standards that would apply to the country if we had not had the legal reservation and thus been subject to the EU's victim directive. It must be said that I do not normally have very warm feelings for much of what might come from Brussels from the European Union, but we really do have the approach to the EU system, that if there are ideas that are good, we accept them and if there are ideas that are bad, then we reject them. The intense here is sympathetic. What we are going to do is to explore the possibilities of the Committee on Legal Affairs' work, because it is our impression that parts of the proposal are already in force. We will therefore seek to clarify which elements remain, that is to say where we can do better, and wait for us to get an explanation of the whole situation. Once it's done, we'll come back with our approach. That seems like a sympathetic thing, but we can't guarantee a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162632	First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, whose rapporteur is concerned with other political work in this House. The proposal here illustrates something a little strange, as the Minister has also mentioned: one is not enthusiastic about the policy down in Brussels, but one would like to implement the EU rules in a different way with the proposal here. The proposal actually covers 25 active articles, including a great deal of sub-provisions. And somehow I am not excited to take a position on a proposal completely a bloc like this. If I go in and look at the individual provisions, yes, I would say that these are actually quite a few provisions that we do not already have in force in Denmark and, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, some provisions are actually at an even higher level. But something might suggest that there are at least supplements to be obtained in the form that a victim can get a receipt on his notification, including a translated receipt if you are a foreigner. Translations and interpretations can be obtained more according to the provisions of the directive than we have today. Finally, the directive provides for the right to be notified of the release of a criminal after prison. We only have this in Denmark if he has been in custody and served in one continuous order. So I actually believe that these are a few provisions that we do not already have here. The government has given priority to the area of victims, and the Minister for Justice has already made a review of this, so I will not spend Parliament's time doing that again. I have no doubt that in some areas the legal situation of the victims can be improved, and that is why I would also like to say that we in the Left are open to discussing elements in the situation of the victims, but we should take them individually and not as a single directive, which contains so many different things here. However, I had just said that I made the individual proposals and let us discuss them in the Danish Parliament. Implementation of this directive will mean a substantial cost. Now I say implementation of the directive, but of course I believe that the provisions of the directive should be adopted here in the Folketing and that would mean additional costs of probably around 16 million. kr. I do not think that is what we need at the moment. But, as I said before, if there are individual provisions that we think we can supplement to help the situation of the victims here in Denmark, then we are ready to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162934	Thank you to the rapporteur, to whom no brief remarks have been made. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317162946	Thank you. It is always good when there are proposals that will do something for the victims of crime. In any case, it is usually something that is a big crowd together to back up, and I think there might be good reason for that. It is true that it is terrible to be the victim of a crime and that, of course, we must help those people both to get proper treatment from the authorities, to get proper compensation and to get a proper opportunity to move on in life. I think that this motion for a resolution is very remarkable, if I may put it that way. At any rate, I look forward to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten coming up here and, I assume, giving such a relatively comprehensive overview of what is not in the directive and why it is all the elements, and not just such a selection, that are equally relevant in the comments. But I look forward to hearing that when Mrs Pernille Skipper comes up here, because that is at least the prerequisite for us to actually know what we are discussing. I do not think that is so clear. I also think there is one sentence on which I have to make a perhaps humorous remark, and that is the last one, even for B 59, which we will be dealing with shortly. It is in the comments that the proposers consider that the proposal can be implemented within the framework of the current appropriations. There could be many funny comments about Enhedslisten's general approach to economic policy, namely that you really have no idea where the money should come from. It is, of course, the case that a financial law has to be agreed at some point, and the money must be there, because otherwise at least some less money will have to be spent, or else it could have been spent on something else. So we cannot just say that we are imagining that this can be done within the framework of the current appropriations. The Liberal Alliance believes that something should be done for the victims, but we really think that Enhedslisten should make these proposals more concrete rather than just having some wish for a European directive to be implemented. It may, of course, be that we will do so at a later stage, if it is the case that the government is doing what the Liberal Alliance has wanted, namely to bring a new referendum, following on from the one that was originally held and where the Folketing will then have to take a position on the individual directives. I'm sorry, I meant the people, not the Parliament, uh, it was a dangerous remark that just came there. Of course, I meant the people, not the Folketing. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317163225	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317163236	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten proposes that Denmark should, in all respects, meet the requirements of the EU victim directive. As you know, the Victims Directive is one of the acts which, unfortunately, were rejected in the referendum on the Danish EU opt-out. The alternative would have liked it to have been part of what we voted on. The directive provides for minimum rights for criminals. The proposers do not want Denmark to give up the legal reservation, even in relation to the victim directive that we are discussing today, but they do recognise, however, that wrongdoers for crimes should at least enjoy the same protection as wrongdoers enjoy in the other EU countries. As you know, the alternative was to abolish the reservation of law, and we were even very disappointed that this particular directive was not part of the referendum. The alternative is very keen to improve the rights of the victims who are wronged. We believe that this is a crucial factor in modernising and improving our legal system. That is why, of course, we support the proposalers' wish that criminals in Denmark should enjoy protection which is at least as good as that enjoyed by the other victims in the rest of the European Union. The proposal provides for an improvement in key rights for wrongdoers. If we implement the provisions of the directive in Denmark, it will, among other things, be implemented. ensure that communication to wrongdoers is carried out in a simple and easily understandable language and that the victim has the right to be accompanied by a person whom he or she has chosen. Any notification of a criminal offence will require a written confirmation of the notification to be translated into a language understood by the notifier. Furthermore, in the event of the perpetrator's eviction or release from prison, injured persons will have to be more informed. The police will also have an obligation to carry out an individual assessment of the injured person in order to identify specific protection needs. We believe that these initiatives can improve the position of the wrongdoers in the Danish legal system, and that is why the alternative is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317163440	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I do not see the Radical Left rapporteur in the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317163500	Thank you. Now the victim directive has been cross-checked across EU supporters and EU opponents and all in between. I think this is a very fine resolution from the Enhedslisten, and the important thing must be the content of it. The victim directive was one of the major reasons why we in the SF were to transform our legal reservation into an opt-in system. I do not agree with the Socialist Group in the European Parliament if I have understood correctly that we have better protection in a wide range of areas in Denmark than we will have with the victim directive. I may have misunderstood the rapporteur. I believe that if we incorporate the victim directive into Danish legislation, we will be much stronger in a wide range of areas. I am sorry if I misunderstood the Socialist rapporteur. But I believe that in Denmark, victims and wrongdoers will be much stronger if we get it incorporated into Danish law in all areas where we have not yet complied with the directives. So the SF is in favour, and I do not think it should be any good to propose directives translated into Danish legislation, even if one has one or the other attitude towards the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317163619	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. So I am now ready to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Skipper. As I recall, the Conservatives have spoken on behalf of the Conservatives. And you don't have to run. It was just the bad conscience). If it helps your conscience, it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317163642	It helps your conscience to run a little in the Parliamentary Chamber once in a while. This proposal, which we are dealing with, is about implementing the rules and rights resulting from the so-called victim directive of the European Union, which has been very well reproduced by several people. More specifically, before the vote on the legal reservation back in December 2015, the government has reviewed the directive and the provisions and believes that this will lead to a number of improvements. In this way, I think, I will also answer the Liberal Alliance's question as to what it will bring about. Well, that is quite clear from the government analysis that was carried out. It is, among other things, that the Danish police must issue a written declaration of the essential parts when reporting a criminal offence and that the confirmation must be translated upon request into a language that the notifier understands. It is an obligation to inform victims of crimes in cases where they do not have the right to be informed today, etc. I will not read it all out here; we can talk about it later. There are also others. the fact that communication with wrongdoers must take place in a simple and easy-to-understand language, etc., and that one is entitled to a sitter. So there are a number of things in this directive that would raise the standard, you might say, for victims in Denmark, and which we in the Enhedslist think we should introduce into Denmark even if we have a legal reservation, even if we are not obliged to do so by the European Union. I thought it was strange and strange when the parties behind the agreement to lift the reservation did not choose to include it in their so-called limited electoral system. For me, it testified that the whole exercise was not about doing much more than moving any decision-making powers from the people to the Folketing, so that a simple majority could in future give up more and more self-determination without asking the people again. Fortunately, that became a 'no'; fortunately, it became a 'yes' to democracy and a 'no' to centralisation. This does not mean that we have lost the opportunity to imitate the good ideas that come from the European Union or from Norway or from all sorts of other countries. We are, in fact, free to copy when others find good ways to better protect the rights of victims. This is one of the things we think we should do much more from the Danish side. That is also the answer to those who think it is a strange proposal from the Enhedslisten. I don't think it is at all. This illustrates precisely what I think we can do when others come up with good ideas, but we can do so without giving up our right to self-determination and without giving up sovereignty to the European Union. So I honestly don't get it. On the other hand, I could ask how all those who think it is so wonderful with the European Union and would like to give up more self-determination and, as such, would like to see the whole legal reservation abolished without any reservation, can vote against it here. There are others who have asked me that it was the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, why Enhedslisten does not make the proposal with a number of amendments instead of saying that they are taking the EU directive. That, of course, could have been done. That is quite correct. That would probably also be the more common way of doing it. And if you are to be honest, and you should preferably do so from the speaking chair of the Folketing, the point is precisely to illustrate that you can do what you want and that we can take the lead in very, very many areas. We can be much better in the area of victims of crime and the treatment of them and their rights. We can do this by copying the European Union, we can take the lead ourselves, and we can do it without losing the right to self-determination. So if anyone is still mystified in the Chamber, I would say: take the stabs you can get and vote through this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164103	Thank you. There is one with brief comments. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164108	I really think that it was a little exposed by the rapporteur himself in the end that the reason for using the method is that you want to make a point. It is more visibility teaching in the EU, and so we agree with the Enhedslisten in the EU that you can do things you agree with, even if you have voted no in the referendum in December. I'm just saying that Enhedslisten has shown that, and I think that's fine. I actually think that we should try to make the proposals more so that we can discuss the content. It may well be that we do not want to do the one hundred percent that the EU directive is. It might be that it should only be 98 per cent. or 102 per cent. And it would perhaps be more exciting if we could have that discussion instead of it being such a discussion about us copying an EU directive. I think it'll be a little too festive, if I may put it that way. So I'm still a little skeptical about the method. But it may well be that I can be informed by Mrs Pernille Skipper in the course of the committee work anyway, but at first sight I am still mostly in favour of rejection, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164224	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164225	I'm hard, hard disappointed that it can actually be too festive for Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I'll tell you what. I didn't think I'd see that after all. Having said that, I think, if we are to continue to talk about points, that this is, of course, also a discussion about our handling of EU proposals. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says that we should discuss the proposals one by one, because it may be that we will do 98 per cent. of what the European Union has done and add some other things and subtract a little. I fully agree with that. You could do that. Let's do it. Finally, let us take all the proposals. We have then gone through them in the Enhedslisten and concluded that we all think it is positive. But let's finally take them one by one too. The point is, then, that it is something special to do so when there are rules coming from the European Union, in this case. As a rule, if the legal reservation had been abolished, if it had been in another area, it would have run through the European Committee with a single meeting and show of hands by some rapporteurs who probably could not read the rules before it was implemented. And then it would be passed on by administrative means.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164341	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164343	One could at least consider whether, in relation to some qualification, it is possible to do so; I think that we have done so before the debate could set out a kind of consultation process so that we could have a little more input than just that we can each read through the directive and look at the analysis that the government has carried out. It is very good to get the government's word for what is good and what is bad and so on. Perhaps it would be nice if you got a say in that, in fact, I miss a rather more thorough process, because I think it would be very violent to have to take a stand and just say yes or no as a political party. This is perhaps a little unusual in the Folketing, and it is perhaps also very cool that it is almost a procedural criticism, more than that it is a substantive criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164429	Then I will do something else unusual and take the criticism to heart. It may also be a little unusual in the Folketing, but I do it on today's occasion. I think it's a good idea to send it to a hearing. It is clear that one of the reasons why we are going to look at this directive at all is, first of all, that the government and the parties to the agreement then abstained, but also that we have heard from a great many organisations working with victims of crime that they are really sorry that it has been rejected. So it was in this context that we then chose to table the motion for a resolution. Then there is another procedural discussion that we can take about how long things take in the Folketing, but that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164529	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317164552	Thank you. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that persons acting in criminal proceedings in Denmark are at least guaranteed the rights of interpreters and translators provided for in the EU directive on the right of interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. I can tell you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. This does not mean that the government does not recognise that persons accused of a crime should be given the opportunity to understand what is happening in their case. I am aware that there are certain challenges in the field of interpretation, even when it comes to interpretation in criminal matters, but the implementation of an EU directive is not the right way to go. This is partly because the challenges we see do not relate to when to interpret or what to translate. It is more a question of quality, and I will come back to that later. However, in this area too, the proposers feel that the solution should be found in Brussels and that failure to implement the directive is an expression of a desire for less legal certainty in Denmark than that of the other EU countries. That is not how the government views it, and the parties behind the election agreement, the Social Democrats, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party did not see it in March last year either. It was in connection with the conclusion of the agreement that the parties' point of reference were to choose the legislation which either gave concrete benefits to citizens and businesses, or which was considered to be beneficial for Denmark and to actively contribute to the development of the future. On the other hand, the parties to the agreement did not wish to opt for legal acts whose specific advantages, also in conjunction with the costs and resources associated with them, were not large or were in areas where it made better sense to regulate itself or where the option would be contrary to Danish legal principles. The parties behind the election agreement therefore abstained from the directive on the right of interpretation and translation. The outcome of the referendum and the end of the election agreement do not mean that we now support the implementation of the EU directive. I also find it difficult to recognise the image of the proposers that legal certainty should be better in the other EU countries than in Denmark. Persons accused or accused in criminal proceedings or sought under a European arrest warrant are already entitled to a large extent, in accordance with Danish law, to free interpretation or translation if they do not speak or understand Danish. The Danish rules build among other things. in practice by the European Court of Human Rights. Implementation of the directive will therefore not bring significant benefits to Danish citizens or companies. That is why it will also be a question here of whether we should use significant financial and personnel resources to implement the EU directive. As the authors also mentioned, in the context of the analysis of the directive prior to the referendum, it was considered immediately and with considerable uncertainty that the transposition of the directive into Danish law would entail additional costs in the order of 20 million. kr. It is an amount which the proposers believe can be realized within the framework of the current appropriations. Again, I have to say that, among other things. in view of the particular challenges we face in these years, the government considers that it would not be appropriate to spend 20 million. kr. a year by government budgets to implement an EU directive which, as I said, will not bring significant benefits to Danish citizens. Instead, we should focus on ensuring the quality of the interpretation that is already being made. As I said, the government does not run from the fact that there are certain challenges with interpretation, including: in Danish courts. Those challenges were also recognised by the previous government. Back in 2012, focus was placed on the interpretation area in a research report on the role of the Court. On the basis of the report's conclusion, a committee was set up in 2013 to analyse the interpretation area. The Committee must propose solutions to ensure national access to better quality interpreting services as well as more efficient administration of the area. In this context, the Committee should also look at the use made of the possibilities for implementing IT-based solutions. Two focus areas have been identified in the committee's work: high quality interpretation assistance and efficient management of interpretation assistance. It should be borne in mind that there are a limited number of interpreters in Denmark who can solve the interpretation tasks in criminal proceedings. This is also the background on which the government's view is based. It is more appropriate to find solutions that contribute to solving the problems identified by improving the quality of the existing interpretation and improving the management of the scheme. If, as proposed by the proposers, we implement the directive and thus increase the use of interpreting and translation assistance, we risk increasing the existing problems in the field of interpretation rather than resolving them. That is why we must give priority to finding solutions to the current challenges. The government will await the outcome of the work of the Committee on Interpretation Analysis, which is expected to be available this summer, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165034	Thank you, Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165048	Thank you. With this proposal, the Enhedslisten wants Denmark to comply in all areas with the EU directive on the right to interpretation and translation assistance in criminal matters. Firstly, we have just strengthened interpretation assistance in Denmark. The focus is on raising quality. We already have a long way to go in Denmark as regards the right to interpret and on a few points you are also longer than what is required by the European Union. However, our primary opposition to this resolution is that it will really be incredibly cost-effective and in some areas also organisationally very difficult to meet all the elements. The minister already mentioned that it means, as estimated by the Ministry of Justice, 20 million. kr. annual as an additional cost to be found to make this work. In addition, there will also be certain administrative consequences for police, prosecutor and courts. They are not included in this. One can imagine that there are language areas that are close to being impossible to pollute interpreters into. Or it will unduly delay matters, which means that possible criminals must sit in Danish prisons for a long time before decision is taken. It's not desirable. We must work to ensure that cases involving foreign criminals are resolved more quickly and that they are returned to service. The authors of the motion for a resolution state in their comments that Danish legal policy should not be laid down in Brussels, and therefore they will not give up the reservation of law either. Conversely, the proposers nevertheless believe that legal certainty in Denmark should be equal to that of the other EU countries. I would just like to remind the authors of the motion that it is not a self-table. It is possible that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks this is the way it should be, but in this the Socialists do not agree. After all, we do not think that such a legal situation as the one envisaged by the Enhedslisten is going to be of benefit to foreign detainees, because they do not already like the European Union and what it contains. We believe that we can be familiar with ourselves in Denmark. We have a strong legal system, we have strong rights, including in terms of interpretation. We must constantly work to improve, and that is precisely why a committee has been set up which has the two focus areas mentioned by the Minister, namely quality and efficiency. However, we do not believe that the European Union's model is right for this, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165344	Thank you. The proposal is that Denmark should at least comply with the rights laid down in the Interpreting and Translation Directive. I note that extensive committee work has already been set in motion to provide the whole area with a service review which, I hope, will result in us having clear conclusions that will tell us what is working right now and, possibly, what can be better done in the future. When the conclusions are reached, we look at them and we discuss them and then we deal with them. We will, of course, keep in mind that the Danish Parliament will have these conclusions as soon as possible, as the Minister has outlined, since it must not become a jar of jelly. But until we have the conclusions, we are therefore waiting in this area and we are therefore not going to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165435	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165444	Thank you. So, like the previous proposal, it is also a proposal in which we must implement all the EU rules. I can say that, like the other proposal, there may be some provisions that we should look at. We are certainly not unwilling to do so, but such a bloc to say that now it is all going to be implemented in Denmark, we cannot support it. We can share the Minister for Justice's amazement at the desire to implement EU rules while at the same time having enough against the European Union. I shall not dwell on the individual provisions of the directive. It is the right to translation, it is interpretation costs, it is the quality of the interpreter, the training of judges and prosecutors, protocoling, translation, etc. etc. Most importantly, the directive will require judgments and rulings in both urban and rural law to be translated. It is a tremendous piece of work. The Minister of Justice mentioned the figure of 20 million. kr. I think it's shot far, far below target. In general terms, I have to say that I do not think there is any value for money. However, I have not said in this way that there are no problems or challenges, as the Minister also said, with the situation of interpreters in the courts. That is why a committee has also been set up to analyse the field of interpretation, and we await the outcome of that work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165623	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll continue in the series of speeches with mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165631	We are also waiting for the analysis of the interpretation area, and I would also like to add that all the points I made during the debate on B 58 are also relevant to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165648	Thank you. That's how short it can be done. The next speaker is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Don't worry, it sometimes goes faster than you expect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165710	Thank you. This proposal proposes that Denmark should meet all the requirements of the EU directive on the right of interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. The directive on the right of interpretation and translation in criminal matters, like the victim directive, is one of the acts which, to the great regret of the alternative, were chosen from the referendum on the Danish reservation of law. As was the case with the second proposal on the victim directive, the proposers point out that they do not want Denmark to give up the legal reservation. However, the motion for a resolution here seeks to improve legal certainty in Denmark. Legal certainty is something fundamental in a society such as ours, and we must constantly improve and protect it. The alternative, of course, like the proposers, wants legal certainty in the Danish justice system to be at least equal to the level in the rest of Europe. That is also why we recommended the abolition of the reservation of law. Having the right to qualified interpretation should be an entirely natural minimum right in a legal society and we can do better in Denmark. Several studies and reports show that interpretation in the Danish courts is associated with a number of problems. The proposal mentions some of the measures that should be taken to improve interpretation in Danish criminal proceedings, including a publicly available list of interpreters used by the police and courts, and a certification scheme for interpreters as well as SU eligible interpretation courses in the main refugee and immigrant languages. The alternative agrees with the proposers that the implementation of the minimum standards set out in the EU directive on the right of interpretation and translation does not solve all problems, but we believe that this is an important step in the right direction. So the alternative is in favour of the proposal. And then I shall announce from the SF that the SF will also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165851	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Preben Bang Henriksen. There's time for a supplement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165911	Thank you for that, but it will be very little, because I forgot to say that I was also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, and I would be sorry that it appeared as if they were not here. They are, like a small party, busy in other political work in this house. So now it's said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165926	Thank you for that correction. It is a good thing that it is coming now, because I was about to say that I do not see any more party rapporteurs in the Chamber, which is why I am giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317165940	Then, as rapporteur for the Left, I should also like to start by saying that I should also have spoken on behalf of the Radical Left under the previous proposal, and that they have also reported their support for both B 58 and B 59, which we are dealing with now. Of course, we appreciate that. This directive on interpretation and translation assistance in criminal matters is one of the acts that was rejected when the Social Democrats, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives decided on the voting theme for the referendum on the Danish EU legal reserve back in December. The interpretation in the Danish courts is certainly not without problems. A number of people have talked about that up here. This is also evident from research back from 2012 and research from 2015 and, most recently, the Institute of Human Rights has also published a report which, and I do not really know if I can say in the Assembly Hall • frankly, it is a mess. The critics of the legal interpretation and its quality, among other things, want us to have a publicly available list of the interpreters used by the police and courts, that we get a certification system so that they are actually approved, and that we get SU- entitled interpretation courses in the most central languages for refugees and immigrants, which, after all, are used regularly by the Danish courts and the Danish police. Interpreting is extremely important for legal certainty, because it is basically about whether you understand what you are accused of, what evidence is presented against you, and thus how you organise your defence. But it's also about whether the judges understand what the defendants say in their defense. If that communication does not work properly, it means that we risk innocent people being convicted. So this isn't just a little thing. It's really, really important. And when you go out and talk to city judges around, you hear that they say that the interpretation they are met with in their work is really, really poor, and that they can hear and see that they are not being told everything. As others have also pointed out, I do not believe that the implementation of the minimum standards, which is the EU directive that we are talking about here, solves everything by any means but it will be a step in the right direction. That is why I find it very difficult to see why it was not part of the voting base back in December. When you read the government's analysis, it appears that some of the things that will result in Danish law, among other things. is that a judgment in criminal proceedings must be translated in writing when the convicted person does not master Danish. Imagine that it is not a right today that when you are convicted of something, you can get the sentence in a language you actually understand. It is also about the fact that the authorities will be obliged to provide interpretation services to a greater extent than is currently the case, so that you can communicate with your defender. I can't believe it's not a right today. We want to upgrade Danish legal certainty in this area. We would also like to go further than what the European Union is doing, among other things. have a certification, but to follow this proposal we think we're the least we can do. In all honesty, then, we also have a small hope that it will slip down a little more easily when it comes from the otherwise so often highly sung European Union. This shows very clearly that we can take a lot of good steps ourselves if we want to, even without the European Union. There is no reason to give up more democracy or more self-determination or move decisions further away from the people without being able to take back competence. We can copy the good ideas that come from the European Union, we can copy the good ideas that come from the rest of the world, and at the same time we can work for more close democracy and draw the decisions closer to the citizens. I think it's a little mysterious that, among other things. The Left says that they will not vote in favour of this proposal because they will not just eat everything that comes from the European Union without assessing the individual provisions. You could say that they usually will. The democratic process which is taking place around EU legislation in all areas other than justice, because we have a legal reservation, is taking place in a small, closed room in a European committee which has a single reading of a regulation, the European rapporteurs are not, moreover, specialist rapporteurs, and there is no possibility of asking all kinds of questions and having three readings in the Chamber and consultation, etc. So I think that this is just a very good argument for democratising our treatment of EU proposals in general, so that it is not only in the area of justice that we, as elected representatives, actually take a critical view of the legislation we adopt and are responsible for its content.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317170517	I see there's someone on the audience bench bringing drinks in here. It's not allowed to have it. But now I see you go out again. So I'm sorry to bother you. I understand that the rapporteur is finished. Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317170549	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317170635	Thank you. In 2013, the then government entered into an agreement with the Left and Conservatives on the progress reform. It was done on a simple basis. There was a need to reduce students' average completion time; at that time it was found that graduates in 2011 were on average 13.7 months in addition to prescribed time. That's a high number. And the progress reform rightly addressed this challenge. Specifically, we asked universities to reduce study time by an average of 4.3 months. The aim is that the average overrun of the prescribed study time for all universities has been reduced by 9.4 months by 2020. We have stood by that objective ever since we reached the original agreement, and we are already well on the way. Today, the average study time overrun is 2.9 months. The universities and students should be commended for this development. It has taken hard work, I know that, and we also see the result of it now. The purpose of the drive reform is as relevant today as it was when we concluded the agreement. However, this does not mean that the mechanisms of reform remain flawless. On the contrary, we have also recognised today that the mechanisms of reform have never been a desire to create inappropriate troubles and troubles or bureaucratic walls for students, employees and university management. No, it hasn't. In retrospect, however, this has unfortunately been far too much the case. We have heard it from universities, teachers and students themselves. Of course, we listen to everyone. The method has filled more than the goal, and instead of speeding up the process it is, despite the fact that the figures are going the right way, also ended up tightening up a number of places, and that was not the intention. We have recognised this, and that is why the parties have also given each other a handshake on adjustments to the progress reform, and with the adjustments we are sticking to the aims of the reform, but loosening the bureaucratic straitjacket, which has tightened a little too much. The aim of the agreement on the adjustment of the progress reform is therefore basically to give universities the means of achieving the objective of reducing study time by the remaining 2.9 months by 2020, and I am absolutely convinced that this must also be achieved. In other words, with L 125 universities and students, we are now giving more freedom to achieve that objective. That's smart. They know best what works on individual courses if the aim of reducing study time is to support quality at the same time. With adjustment of the progress reform, we remove the central requirement for registration for subjects and tests of 60 ECTS points per year. year of study. At the same time, the institutions will be able to establish ongoing study activity requirements, as well as grade examinations and exams. Once again, I would like to stress that we are thereby giving individual education the opportunity to choose the methods that make the best sense in their study. In addition, the adjustment means that an exemption can be granted to students who are entrepreneurs or presidents of voluntary training organisations. We thus put an end to some of the quite hopeless cases of automatic transfer of credits at the time of change of study, which has previously been promoted. Only professional merit can be transferred in future by changing courses of study. Last but not least, we introduce the possibility of professional supplementing applicants who obtain conditional admission to Master's degree programmes. It is very positive that the conditions for shifts between studies will improve in the future. We have also stressed in the agreement that training should take account of the fact that the specialty period corresponds to the number of ECTS points held. It is not fair to ask students to write a thesis of 3-4 months, as has been the case in some places. In addition, the agreement stresses that the training courses must take into account the possibility of internship and training placements. So with the agreement on the adjustment of the drive reform, which L 125 translates, we are sticking to the initial objective of the drive reform, which is as relevant today as it was in 2013. At the same time, we do away with the previous one size fits all-approach. Universities are given much greater freedom of method, and the Socialists think that is a wise adjustment. At the same time, the draft law amends the rules for the payment of grants to universities in connection with the planned dimensioning. First of all, I think it is positive that the government has chosen to continue and maintain the dimensioning model established by the previous government. This, of course, is a source of great praise to me. The bill empowers the Minister to lay down rules to reduce the grant if the specified dimensioning is not complied with. That is also sensible. At the same time, I note that even the dimensioning model will have to be evaluated in 2017, and I look forward to it. In other words, we will have ample opportunity to discuss the model on an ongoing basis and to adjust it on an ongoing basis when further shortcomings should occur. So, on the basis of these comments, the Socialists can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171150	Thank you. There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171153	Thank you to the rapporteur. In the Enhedslisten, we did not support the progress reform and we have seen that there have been many problems. That is why I am also glad that the parties took the initiative to make this adjustment, but there are parts of this adjustment that I am very puzzled about. The first is that the economic framework remains exactly the same. So in practice much of the same press will be seen through by students in universities. I would ask the rapporteur to take a look at whether the reality of students will not be very much the same. The second is that this adjustment simply introduces user charges for these supplementary courses, and I think this is a very, very unfortunate development, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the Social Democrats can support the fact that there will be user fees for these supplementary courses which affect teachers, educators, etc., who would like to continue studying at university.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171303	I understand that Mrs Flyvholm is asking the questions she is asking, because there is no doubt that the Socialists and I are very concerned about the pressure that generally prevails in universities. I do not think that this is solely due to the reform of the momentum; I have to say that frankly. I think that this is just as much due to the study culture currently in existence and that it is currently there. is a culture of achievement among students. It is possible that it has also been so 10 and 20 years ago, and I do not think it has anything to do with the financial framework either. In the best of all worlds we had enough money to have both double teachers and 30 hours of teaching, and, incidentally, to read 10-12 years, as they used to do in the old days. But that is no longer the case. When you experience pressure at universities at the moment, I would say to Mrs Flyvholm that it is all about a government that saves 8.7 billion. kr. In the case of training, which is intended to continue to do so. That saving is a very sad fact in the sense that we now just have to look at the fact that there is less and less money. And most recently in a consultation with the Minister for Education and Research yesterday, where Mrs Eva Flyvholm himself was present, and by the way she was summoned, we were confirmed that there was no intention to give higher priority to education in the future. So I'm afraid we can only look forward to even more of that sort of thing. The last thing I want to say is about user charges. The Social Democrats are really sorry, but the thing is that the 2013 agreement contained an expiry date on 31 August 2016. There we would come back to exactly the old model, if you would say so, with precisely user charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171442	The questioner for the second brief remark then it may be that there will be more answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171444	Thank you to the rapporteur. I fully share the concern about the cuts that have been made in the field of education. We are very much in agreement on this. And I also very much agree that this is the main problem in the field of education now. Nevertheless, the demand for students to be pushed through more quickly, including with this adjustment of the progress reform, and the Social Democrats are involved in this. I believe that we will continue to see a great many problems in universities. Will the rapporteur help to open up the reform again if we see that these problems remain present? Do you want to go back inside and help open it up again? In relation to what the rapporteur says, I would also like to know whether the rapporteur can guarantee that the Social Democratic Party will not vote at any other time to introduce user charges on these courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171544-2	In the word momentum, there is something that Mrs Flyvholm regards as a pressure. In fact, I think it is quite reasonable pressure, a friendly push forward for the students to go up to their exams and spend the time reading so that they can also pass their exams and then move on to the study; that is the way it is in my world. It may as a very natural part of a development as a student feel like a pressure, I fully acknowledge that. I remember clearly what it was like to be a student... you feel pressure. But I do not think that the pressure is so brutal that it simply would not be possible to cope with it. I think that this is a perfectly reasonable demand, including in the progress reform ^ and it is the Socialists' 100 percent behind it that we should ensure that as far as possible and as a general rule we are done on time. There may be things happening along the way that are outsiders and that are completely out of control themselves, and that is also taken into account in the agreement, so of course there are also exemptions. As to whether it is possible to open it up again, I would say that we are responsive and that the parties behind the agreement have an agreement between themselves to see at all times whether there are more inappropriate things that need to be adjusted. Finally, social democracy never guarantees anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171709	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next speaker is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171724	Thank you. The progress reform has been discussed in many contexts since its adoption in 2013. It was adopted by the university circle, of which the Danish People's Party is not a part, but I must admit that at that time, as now, I thought that there was a need to make it. I certainly did not think it was the best choice at the time, but I think it was a necessary choice at the time to do it the way you did it. There was a need to do away with the culture, which was special in some universities, with very long average study periods. There was a culture in many places that as a student you didn't have to take the full curriculum you could plan after just spending a few years extra on your study. At the time, as now, I thought it was really a pity that it was from in here that we had to adopt strict and detailed rules on, among other things. examination participation. However, I must also say that I did not see at the time in 2013 that the universities were ready to take responsibility for implementing the necessary measures. And that's why they were adopted in here. We have also been able to see since then that these have not been the best solutions in all areas, and fortunately there has been a process in which we have looked at in a dialogue with educational establishments: what are the levels of freedom that we need out there to make this work? Because there is no doubt that the best way to adjust culture, the best way to work with momentum, is with solutions at educational establishments. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party also believe that the adjustments set out in the bill are both sensible and necessary, because it gives the educational establishments a better opportunity to organise the requirements and opportunities that suit the students themselves. At the same time, the overall framework is maintained, which is about ensuring the momentum. On that basis, we think it is actually an excellent proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171928	There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317171931	Thank you very much. In addition to these adjustments to the progress reform, a new element has also been introduced, which is to open up the possibility of introducing general character requirements such as access to universities. Specifically, this will mean that the University of Copenhagen will now have the opportunity to put a barrier on the character 6. We also know that it is typically harder for young students coming from non-academic homes to get high grades which make it easier to enter the programme. Does the Danish People's Party believe that it makes sense to open up the possibility of this general admission requirement, which can actually help to hamper social mobility in society and make it harder for children or young people to do so here, can we say, young people, when they are going to university, who come from a non-academic background to get in and have the opportunity to get higher education as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172035	We in the Danish People's Party think it is really important that you have relevant requirements and criteria for admitting students, and we believe that it is in each educational establishment that you have the best opportunities to find out what these requirements should be. I would say that experiments are being carried out around different types of combinations of characters and other admission criteria with good success. At least at the University of Southern Denmark, health has seen that better implementation is actually achieved, faster implementation by making sure that those captured are more motivated. At the same time, I must also say that we know the link between grades. This is, of course, a quite valid way of assessing, which is why I see nothing more than that grades are, as a starting point, an important criterion. I would very much like to see it supplemented with others, but at the same time I would also like to say that I support the fact that universities themselves have the freedom to define what these requirements are reasonable in relation to individual education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172140	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172142	I would like to say that I think the rapporteur is somewhat overlooking the fact that there is a huge potential for development. If you have first entered the university, you are also supposed to learn along the way. So I think there is an advantage in not always first just taking those who have the highest grades, but also giving others the opportunity to learn. But I would actually like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: if it turns out that there is a social battle side to this, if it turns out that this is going to prevent social mobility in society, will the Danish People's Party help to turn this around?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172220	In relation to social mobility, I would like to say that it is a really important point to focus on, but I think that what we need to focus on at universities and higher education is necessarily quality, and then we need to adjust and work with both primary and upper secondary schools to a great extent in relation to universities. That is where the work needs to be done, and that is where we can make the big difference, namely by addressing the children and young people much, much earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172305	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172315	Thank you. In the context of the examination of draft law L 125 on the adjustment of the progress reform, the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the draft law. In 2013, the Left, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, entered into an agreement on a progress reform. The reform was intended to significantly reduce the length of studies in higher education. It should promote a student-active culture and support students in conducting their studies on time. This is an objective that we in the Left are committed to, because we need to make demands on educational institutions and on students. We therefore maintain the objective of reducing study time delays in higher education by 2020. At the same time, hopefully, this will also contribute to growth and prosperity throughout the country. From the outset, the progress reform has had some shortcomings, both for students and for educational institutions. The reform has lacked flexibility and has lacked an eye for the diversity of educational institutions. That is why the Left Government concluded an agreement with the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party last November, an agreement to adjust the elements of the drive reform that are not working optimally, an agreement on greater flexibility, a freer framework for educational institutions and also for students. Because while we continue to believe that it is necessary to significantly reduce study time, we are, of course, open to looking at how best to do this. We are ready to rectify those parts of the reform that can still be improved, we are ready to listen and respond to the parties involved, and we are actually doing so with this legislative proposal that we are dealing with here today. By providing institutions with greater flexibility to achieve the objectives of study reductions, we create a good framework and also the least possible barriers for students in their education programmes. Instead of detailing, we are now making certain objectives and frameworks available to the educational institutions to fill the framework for themselves. Because in the Left we believe that it is those who study and work on the institutions, yes, in the local environment, who best know how best to achieve the objectives. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that today we are dealing first with this draft law, which I am sure many students and also employees of educational institutions can enjoy. And, of course, in the light of that, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172620	There is one brief comment, Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172623	I would like to know whether the rapporteur considers it realistic that the progress reform can remain within the financial framework provided for. Well, if we look at the numbers, it's only between 1 and 3%. of the students who have to drop out before the economy is not connected at all in this drive reform. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it can be expected that no student will fall out as a result of the progress reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172656	Thank you. So, in the same way that I could hear the Socialist rapporteur speaking here from the platform saying that, of course, there are no guarantees from the Socialists in this Chamber today, I would say that this is also the case in relation to whether there could be some who fell out on the basis of the progress reform. I'm not worried about the financial framework. I'm confident it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172721	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172722	It's very hard to get guarantees in this Parliament. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not confirm that it is true that very few percent of students will actually fall out of school before the economic framework for progress reform no longer lasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172742	I still think that the framework that has been given even though we are pushing forward, which we are also holding on to is so relaxed and so good that you do not have to worry, even as young students, about being able to stay within study time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317172826	Thank you very much. In the Enhedslisten, we were vertically opposed to the progress reform when it was adopted in 2013. We are opposed to this reform because we do not believe that stress on students through their education will produce good results. As we can see, the reform has already caused major problems in universities. It is the number of reexaminations that have exploded; it is students who drop out and go down with stress. And the universities are pressed to their knees financially. Now you want to adjust the progress reform, and that is really fine if it was not because the result of the adjustment is not good enough at all. The worst thing for me to see is that this adjustment introduces user charges. This is an extremely serious thing for students in medium-term education. It is teachers, educators and physiotherapists who in future will have to pay many thousands of kroner to get a supplementary course money they need out of their own pocket in order to move on to university. That is simply not fair and it is completely contrary to one of the finest principles, namely that there must be free and equal access to education. I simply cannot understand how the SF, the Social Democrats and Radicals can vote on this agreement. Another problem with this adjustment is, as I have said, that the financial framework is still the same and that the study time model is the same. This means that the conciliation circle has simply shifted responsibility to the universities, which can get millions of fines if they do not rush through the students. The consequence may very easily be that universities, for example. will throw out more students because it is simply cheaper for them. Thirdly, this law also provides for the possibility of introducing general character requirements. The University of Copenhagen has already announced a threshold on the grade 6. I am really concerned about what this could mean for social mobility in our education system. In other words, we know that children of non-academics and, in fact, young people from rural areas as well as people who, for example, do not have the right to vote in local elections. have a little dyslexia, often have a lower character. They're the ones that can be sorted out by these general character requirements, and that's a bad thing, because then we lose a whole lot of development potential. In addition, this character requirement may also mean that small trades will close down. case at the University of Copenhagen. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this proposal. The government and the conciliation parties, in other words the Left, the Social Democrats, Radicals, Conservatives and SF, have presented it as if it is a major improvement in the progress reform. I think it is a little too bad that the opportunity has not been taken to basically scrap a reform that is so much of a problem. I am really concerned that the problems will continue, because the registration requirement and the activity requirement will still be used away in schools because they are now responsible for pushing students through. I do not think that we should under-authorise or suspect and regulate these young people more than is absolutely necessary, because it is simply unworthy and it backfires. We need to recognise that there may be good reasons to spend a little longer in conducting a study... it may be illness, it may be family problems or more joyful distractions such as: research and work. It is good that there have been relaxations so that students who are entrepreneurs or who have a disability can complete the study longer than usual. The problem is that the universities still have to count these students into the overall framework; that is to say, if they allow some to complete in a little longer time, they will have to push the other students further. It is, of course, deeply unsolidarous and also not a sustainable solution. My final line here must be that it is a very good initiative to look at adjustments to the progress reform, but I am sorry that the result has not improved. There is still room for improvement, and we would really like to discuss this in the Enhedslisten. Then I would really warn against introducing user charges and general character requirements. This is a very serious development, I think, and it is going in the very wrong direction, in relation to what I certainly want from our education system and, as I think many others also want, that our society must give priority and invest in education. We must ensure that there is a good framework for learning and development, and we must ensure that Denmark is a country where you can go from being the daughter of a SOSU helper to becoming a chemist or language professor. I just wanted to say, it's not too late to decide. We still have time to create a better framework for our students and ensure that there is high quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173314	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173319	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech. I am, in fact, very much in agreement with the rapporteur in many of her ideas about progress and what it has done to universities, but I am rather sorry that the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten are not voting for these improvements. I would really like to see such a little clarification of why. Because when I look down on the agreement we have made, these are some concrete things that will be felt in universities. We'll loosen the grip on the students. Then I'm quite clear that we're not in the finish line. I would also like to see further adjustments, but this is something that will be felt from the summer holidays in all Danish universities. So does the rapporteur really not think that the positive elements of this agreement are above the negative elements that lie in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173407	No, I'm actually worried they won't. So, as I said, it is very good that there has been some flexibility in some areas. In fact, I believe that the reality of students in universities will look a lot like the current situation, because it will just be the universities that will have to push these demands down on the students. That is one concern. So we have to wait and see how much that is actually going to mean in practice. That's one. But the second is that I simply do not see how we in the Enhedslisten should be able to vote in favour of a legislative proposal which contains user fees for general education. I really am not in favour of that. I find it very, very problematic that it should be opened up. So user charges are a very important reason why we cannot vote for this. Another reason that has come to light since then is that you open the door to fix this general character requirement. After all, it is no more than 2 days since SF and Enhedslisten had the Minister of Education in consultation, precisely because we are concerned about this character requirement. I do not want to open up the question of the general character requirement because I fear what consequences it may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173517	The possibility of establishing character requirements already exists; it is not something we decide with this today. The KU can introduce character requirements as soon as they want. Well, it's not something we allow. So I just want to say that if we all followed the example of the Enhedslisten today and voted against this proposal, which I am glad is not the case, this bureaucratic nightmare that has been out there would not be brought to an end. Well, there would still be these key registration rules. There would still be the constant focus on momentum in here at Christiansborg. So this is gonna mean something. Well, reports to me from several of the universities are already that it is going to loosen up. Right now the students are out there fighting, and, yes, the monkey has moved on in many ways, but it is going to bring about improvements. I mean, if everyone did what Enhedslisten did today, there would be no improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173608	If everyone did what the Enhedslisten did, we would not have had the drive reform in the first place, you might say, and that would have solved some of the problems. But above all, I am concerned that this is just a small patch solution which does not bring us far enough and which, with both user charges and character requirements, brings, as I said, a number of major problems. And I'd like us to say no to it now and come back and actually do something better. I can see that we could actually get a majority for that. So I think there is reason to shake the bag again, and I would like the rapporteur to take part in that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173643	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173645	Thank you. I would actually like to take the opportunity today, when we are discussing this bill, to try to get a little question on the positions of Enhedslisten in relation to the very thing with the momentum. I think the rapporteur used the term 'progress reform' to stress students, and I would like to ask: does the Enhedslisten have no limit at all on how long a young person can spend studying?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173716	I mean, I think it's quite important that you have some flexibility in relation to how long you can take your education. I do not want to put a precise number of years on it, but what has been proposed with the drive-through reform, where students will be pushed through so quickly to save a little money on the SU in the end, I certainly do not think it is wise. I think it is simply going to go too far beyond the quality of the education that our young people receive, and I think it is going to bite themselves in the tail, including for us as a society. By the way, I think that most students also have an interest in finishing, but that they, like all other people, sometimes find that there is a little bump on the road. It may be family problems or something, and then you need a slightly longer period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173805	So what Enhedslisten is saying here on the platform is that it will be quite okay with eternity students, as they call it. In other words, there does not necessarily have to be a limit at all to how many years it takes before you are ready for, for example. to take up a job and contribute to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173830	Yes, it is very sensible to have an upper limit, but I really think it is set too tight in this case, not least because it is quite clear that the students are feeling stressed now. That's what we hear around here. It gives a worse study environment, it gives a worse result, and I do not think enough is being listened to. So I think it is sensible to provide more flexibility in education. We can easily discuss whether there should be an upper limit. It's not eternity students I'm looking for. But I think that things like proper student guidance and these kinds of actions are much better tools to get students well and quickly through study time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173913	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317173927	First of all, I would like to make some fundamental comments on the draft law. In Denmark we have got used to the fact that the main political axis is the dividing line between the red and the blue bloc. But this does not apply to education policy. Education policy is governed by the alliance between the Social Democrats and the Left, and it is whether we are talking about primary school, secondary school or higher education today. This must be borne in mind when considering the progress reform. It is an attempt to remedy some problems that the educational alliance, as I would call it, has created by constructing a planned economic mass university. The first attempt to remedy the problems was made in 2013 when the Social Democrats, the SF, the Radical Left and the Conservatives reached an agreement on a so-called drive reform. It soon turned out it was in a mess. The universities had trouble managing the reform, and it was a very big trouble. The media could tell about students who were so unlucky to be forced to write that is a terrible word, and the content is also very horrible. forced to combine ECTS points that had been earned, no matter how absurd the combination was. So it can be said that the initial momentum reform was to 3 on the new 12-scale, i.e.. the absolutely unacceptable achievement. The question is, what about the new one? What it does, if it is to be boiled down, is that it maintains its objectives, but leaves it to the individual institutions to reach them, and that, of course, is progress. But we're up to 00, that's... Is there an inadequate performance that does not meet the objectives, or are we up to 02, which is the minimally acceptable degree of achievement of the objectives of the profession? I have to say: that is a good question. It is, of course, positive that the draft law is less bureaucratic and less absurd, to put it bluntly, than the old drive-through reform, but it is also negative that we need to spend time and effort to mitigate the effects of a construction that is at all bad, namely the mass-university of the planetary economy, which both the Social Democrats and the Left have wanted and have made agreements on. The problems could have been solved much more elegantly. There has been a proposal that we could remove the sixth year at the SU and then make the SU dependent on passing your exams. It is not a proposal that we have put forward, but it has been mentioned publicly and as a purely intellectual exercise one could at least have started the discussion. So we're open. Are we going to help the educational alliance sprout its own chestnuts out of the fire, or are we going to leave it to the educational alliance itself? We look forward to the further examination of L 125, but we are already telling the Danish Parliament that, as matters stand, we can very easily end up abstaining from voting on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174244	As there are no brief comments, we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174303	Thank you. I have the honour of filling in for Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, and I hope that my cold does not completely ruin my joy, neither for Members nor for me. First of all, I would like to make it clear that in the alternative, we are very much opposed to the drive-through reform of which this draft law is intended to limit the damage caused. In fact, we would like to abolish the drive-through reform completely. If we wish to do so, this is due in particular to the controversial study time model, which means that universities need to push students as quickly and cheaply through the education system as they possibly can. They have to do so, otherwise they will be penalised financially, and it is still the case that universities will have to reduce average study time by 4.3 months by 2020, regardless of the adjustments we are talking about today. And here all students are included in the accounts, both those who after today are granted exemption, those who run a business next door, and those who for other reasons need a little longer study time. The problem with the study time model is that it creates a situation where quantity and speed are given priority over quality and individual learning. That does not alter the adjustments that are being made. Because, as the former minister said, when he and the conciliation parties concluded the new agreement: the goal has not changed, the Danish students' overrun of study time still needs to be brought down. It is a pity that the desire to reduce study time must weigh more heavily than the concern to create good education. People are learning at different speeds, and in the alternative we therefore believe that education should always be about getting students through the best possible and not as quickly as possible. Nevertheless, it is true that, after all, there are some tiny improvements in the legislative proposal that make us have chosen to support it. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, it is positive that universities themselves now have the responsibility to implement the reform in practice. In the alternative, we generally want more trust and less control, and that is why we also think it is better that it is up to the universities themselves and not to the politicians at Christiansborg to run the details, how the tasks are best done. Secondly, the alternative can only support the abolition of the central registration requirement and the requirement for students to have 60 ECTS points per year. The rigid registration requirement has been particularly a stupid burden for students who want to start an entrepreneurial or take a study job. For example: the two award-winning engineering students from DTU in 2015 had to drop out of the studio because the progress reform forced them to choose between their entrepreneurship or their education. That is why it is good to be able to create a little more flexibility in the system so that students are given a little more freedom to organise their own education programmes, although this freedom is still restricted by other parts of the reform. One thing, however, we regret in the alternative, and it is that it is still possible for universities to introduce a requirement for registration. This means that it is very uncertain how much more freedom there is actually going to be for students. Nevertheless, when we support the proposal, it is primarily about the fact that something useful can come out of small steps if they are going in the right direction, and after all, they are doing so when the registration requirement is abolished and universities are given more responsibility for implementing the reform. I also note that Mrs Mette Reissmann says that adjustments can still be made. That is often said, but when it is said by someone who is actually in the process of doing so, it gives a certain amount of credibility. So we look forward to further work, because there is still a lot that needs fixing. But we support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174628	We have a few brief comments to make. First, Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174632	Thank you. I think it is nicely fought by the rapporteur to get through despite a violent cold. I feel the same myself, so much sympathy from here. I am also pleased that the alternative supports the proposal, although there are a number of criticisms. However, I am a little curious to hear how many years the rapporteur thinks that as a student one should be carrying out an education which is rated at 5 years, just to take an example. How many years is it fair to be on this in the eyes of the Alternative rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174705	Well, it's really hard for me to be so precise that I can put years and months on. But I am an employer myself and hire people every now and then, and I am really happy to hire people who have had time to have study-related work or have work experience or have been able to participate in something, perhaps being entrepreneurs. So as an employer I have had a great deal of pleasure in that there is something spacious to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174732	I agree with the rapporteur that there are a great many facets in this debate, which is why I am also pleased that we are being allowed to roll it out a little more today. But the short part of the long term is that when you as an employer meet the graduates who come out, you are very happy that they can meet a deadline; that the employees you get in can meet a deadline after all and deliver things on time. I am quite convinced that the rapporteur is also interested in this work as a trader, and that is what this is all about. That's what I'm talking about. But it costs money every time you like to extend your studies, and we are very aware of that; we are, as Socialists, financially responsible. It is, after all, a tax-financed education that you have, and that means that all citizens are involved in financing higher education. So does the rapporteur not think that it is right for us as legislators, after all, to make demands on students that they have to complete on time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174828	Thank you for that question too. In other words, I think it pays to give people more room for manoeuvre in their studies, among other things. Because of creating space for entrepreneurship. So our equation is going to turn it around a little bit. We simply believe that creating extra space is a good investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174847	The next brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174850	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the reflections that the rapporteur makes, with which I very much agreed, but I am rather sorry that the alternative ends up supporting this proposal. Because I think there are some very serious things in it, not least in relation to user charges, but also in relation to the introduction of a general character requirement, one might say. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about this and I would also like to ask something else. There are still many who point out that there are too bad opportunities for research and various other activities you can do along the way in your education, and that the flexibility here is still far too poor. Then the rapporteur could not consider whether we should join forces and put a little more pressure on and say that this should be better before we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317174956-2	Thank you for the question. I share the rapporteur's concern about user charges, and I also share it on the nature requirement. These are some of the things that lie in the negative weight bowl with us, but that is not enough. So, all in all, we think that the positive weight bowl weighs the heaviest. I think it is a little bit like most people think it is a good idea in the hearings, but they are a little upset that we have not gone a little further, and that is how we feel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175031	In relation to the character requirement and, as such, the user charge, one thing is that they have not gone any further, and you can have different views on whether to support or not, but for both of them there is simply a serious deterioration in relation to what the situation is like now. Would the rapporteur like to elaborate a little more on how it might be possible for the alternative to support it anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175102	When I say that it has gone further, I do not think that we should go further with the character requirement, and I certainly do not think that we should go further with the user charge, that is not what I meant at all. I would have liked those things to have been scrapped, and when they are opened so well, so that we can continue to look at it, it is precisely some of the things that we would like to have gone. But I am impressed by the fact that they say on the part of universities that they value so much the responsibility they themselves have. It is incredibly important to us in the Alternative that it is the institutions which exist in reality and which are operated in practice that determine as much as possible. So it weighs even heavier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175146	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175152	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I am, of course, pleased to hear that the rapporteur supports the benefits that are now, after all, in this proposal. But now that I am listening to the various arguments, I wonder whether the alternative does not at all mean that there should be admission criteria in universities, nor does it mean that there should be a final length of studies. In other words, if we are now arguing that it is good that universities are getting greater degrees of freedom to decide for themselves, should it not be something they decided out there in relation to getting the right students into the right degree programmes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175231-2	With regard to admission criteria, we would like many more parameters to be included. We think that figure is all, far too narrow. What was the second question? But perhaps the rapporteur can ask that, because there are two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175247	The second-round questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175248	Well, I'd like to supplement with that. The second question was really about study time, i.e. whether it is not reasonable to expect students to complete them within some given period of time, just as Mrs Mette Reissmann mentioned earlier. I also think that as an employer you have some expectation that a given task can be delivered at a given time if you have a customer at the other end. I guess it's fair that through your studio you get trained in finishing something and getting done with something for some given time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175321	I don't know if the fact that you have a given time to finish your study gives you a one-to-one lesson about learning to comply with deadlines in general. It may be that very long study time has been used to create a lot of results, for example. as an entrepreneur. So I don't know if there's that one-to-one comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175342	We thank the rapporteur and wish him every success. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175352	Thank you for that and I am filling in Mrs Ida Auken's absence as she is in India. Bill 125 is basically about softening up the momentum reform, but at the same time supporting the reform's aim of getting our students a little faster through their studies. The proposal is the implementation of the agreement we reached in November with the government, the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Conservatives. I can start by saying that the Radical Left supports the proposal, and we do so because we believe it makes good sense to drop some of the demands that have been made on the educational institutions from the central point of view. Instead, we will leave it more to the educational institutions themselves to lay down internal rules on how students, for example, register and opt out of teaching and exams so that they reach the 60 ETCS points in one year. Because we are fully in favour of the fact that in some cases the progress reform may have been drafted equally rigidly. In this context, we welcome the fact that this proposal provides for, for example, the possibility for universities to deviate from the rules on study activity and to grant exemptions to students who are presidents of voluntary associations belonging to the DUF or who are entrepreneurs. The proposal also provides for the possibility of professionally relevant credits for change of study, as well as better opportunities for professional supplementing applicants for Master's degree programmes. Against this background, we in the Radical Left believe that Bill 125 ensures the necessary adjustments in relation to the progress reform, so that the institutions are given greater flexibility and a freer framework to meet the concrete challenges that each institution is facing. At the same time, the institutions will be given greater freedom to ensure an active and welcoming study culture, as well as to achieve the stated objectives of reducing students' periods of study. In this way, we believe that this proposal balances in a sensible way the relationship between, on the one hand, ensuring a freer framework for educational institutions in relation to the implementation of the progress reform and, on the other hand, maintaining the ambition of getting students through the education system a little faster. So the Radical Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175603	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317175610	Thank you. I would like to start by signing up to the Minister and the Conciliation Committee for a very good cooperation to reform this reform. Although we do not always fully agree on how education should be in Denmark, I actually think it has been a pleasure to work together, and I hope it is the first step in adjusting this reform. Sometimes decisions are made which prove to be inappropriate in reality. I do not think that politicians should be too fine to say that that is what they did, that is to say that they made a mistake or made a decision about something that did not work. And I think that the way the reform has started has shown quite frankly that it did not work. It did not work with the central registration rules. The progress reform has so far created a bureaucratic nightmare in the educational institutions, both for students and also for teachers and for rectors. It has meant that many of the students have seen themselves forced to speculate on blank exams, drop exams and wait with them. It has reduced the desire of many young people to take a study job, it has reduced the desire of many young people to take an internship period. So it has had many unintended consequences, and that is why I think it is good that we are doing away with some of the things now. We do away with the centrally decided registration requirements and allow universities to determine for themselves the requirements that they think are right, and they can do so with the students. The other day I visited Aarhus University. There they had a major conference of study boards involving both students and teachers. There they sat together and argued that when you have to have momentum and, like, have an idea that young people have to go faster through their study, how can we do it without it getting so bad? Well, how can we do it in order? It seemed to work well, even though it was hard. There are some universities that I hear will not keep the central registration requirements at all, or the registration requirements continue, and then there are some universities that go a different way. In any case, I am glad that they have now been given the opportunity to choose which way they want to go. It has been a matter of heart for the SF and for me even before the election. We were really happy, first of all, that the Minister actually made a proposal that was about making up for these key registration requirements. We thought that was a good realization. However, we were also very pleased that we negotiated, that a study activity requirement of 60 ECTS points was not made. That was what was in the first proposal from the Ministry, and it was a SF case from day one to have it negotiated down. This has become 45 ECTS points in the draft law, and I think that is important. Why is this important? It is because life is a changeable size, and so is study life. Things can happen that you haven't planned when you study: You can get sick, you can lose someone you care about, you can experience an accident, you can experience that a subject is difficult and have to take it over. Therefore, it was also crucial that we were given a signal that, yes, even if we have expectations of studying and trying to get through on time, then things can happen to someone in your life that makes delays happen, and that's okay. It should not be possible to require students to pass all ECTS credits every year, then to throw them out if it is not the case that they can. With these adjustments to the progress reform, I do not think we have solved all the problems of the reform. In fact, I still think that in many ways the monkey is being passed on to universities, but the key demands are being loosened, and I think that is really, really important. I think that will also mean that the red tape that has been seen around will disappear, and I just think that creating a dialogue between rectors and students will be very good. And with these adjustments there will still be room for 9.4 months delay on average among students in SF, we don't think we're in line with the adjustments. In our view, the economy is still too tight. We are opposed to user charges, which we also got written in with both the Radicals and the Socialists in the text of the agreement, in other words that we do not think this was good. Actually, I think it's a ridiculously low amount. That's 8 million. kr. However, it is because of different political paths, that is to say different political priorities, and I have to say that what we have achieved is so much better than what we get from voting 'no' today. So I really appreciate this suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180059	There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180103	Thank you to the rapporteur. First of all, I am surprised that, although both the SF and the Social Democratic Party have been out saying that you are not happy about this user fee... I am glad to hear that said... SF is still helping to conclude an agreement that means user fees for education. I'd like to hear about that. The second thing I want to hear about is the nature requirement, and if the SF will not help during this committee's proceedings to see whether it might be possible to change it. The third thing I would like to hear from the rapporteur is that there are more in the consultation answers, among other things. Danish Handicap Federation, which has pointed out in their hearing that they are concerned that in practice it will be very difficult to get these exemptions to have a longer period of study. Is that not something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180208	In relation to user charges, I cannot say much more than that we have clearly stated that we are against it. And if I can change it when we get the power one day, I'll do it. I think it is a very, very small amount that makes it a sudden introduction of user charges into our education system. As far as character requirements are concerned, this is not part of the drive agreement. It's part of this bill. And I would like to see, in some way during the legislative process, the universities being prevented from making those very rigid character requirements. The problem with that is that it is already an option today. I mean, it's not us who, with this legal adjustment, allow universities to make character demands. That possibility is already there. What we are giving is that quota 2 may have a minor character requirement or may not have a character requirement at all. If we say no to that, one could imagine a situation where suddenly both the character requirements of quota 1 and quota 2 were met. So I think this is a major problem and I would very much like to discuss how, in the further legislative process, we can meet the requirements of character, because I do not see that as part of the drive agreement either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180311	I am glad that the rapporteur says so. I think we should continue to discuss this, in other words the issue of grades. I think it is very, very important to ensure social mobility in society that we do not have this general character requirement for quota 1. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur will respond to the answers that say that, for example, we are going to have to deal with the problem of the environment. In the area of disability, people are afraid that they will not be allowed to have a longer period of study, i.e. to have the exemptions, because in the end some other students will suffer more quickly, not that they will suffer, but that there is the overall framework. Do these answers not concern the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180350	Yes, they do. I also think I said in my rapporteur's speech that I still do not think we are going to achieve it. In other words, there is room for dispensation and there is room for universities to have a special handicap or special need in relation to a student, and to say: Hey, there must therefore be room for exemption. And there is still room for 9.4 months of average delay. So I feel like we're going to follow this closely in cooperation with the students and those who work out there. And then, as I said, I'm always ready to look at it again if it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180420	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180424	Well, I can't help smiling when Mr. Simpson... Jacob Mark says he can just find $8 million. kr. in a municipality, for everything else equally must promise well if you are going to make savings locally. But I have a question about the study activity requirement. It is probably no secret that we had a little disagreement about it during the process. What we are proposing now is that it is the institutions themselves that can determine this requirement for study activity. One of the important things for the Conservative People's Party was that we now gave the freedom to organise ourselves locally. I actually heard the rapporteur say that this was important. But why did the 45 ECTS instead of the 60 ECTS end up? Because if you really think that freedom should be given locally for them to adapt themselves, then you should say that it should be up to the 60 ECTS and trust that they will then choose the solution that is best out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180516-2	Compared to the 8 million. kr. I would say: no, I will not find 8 million. kr. as a local politician, not at all under the conditions they now have. But I'm just saying that when I was a municipal politician, that was the amount we were discussing when we were saving money. So it was crazy all of a sudden to sit in the Folketing running the entire country's economy and couldn't find the money. That's what it was. In relation to the requirement of study activity, it is true that it is probably at least one of them. SF was responsible for not imposing a student activity requirement of 60. It is simply because as a politician I am ready to give freedom under responsibility. That means that there is also some freedom that I am not ready to give, and that is for example. with regard to the possibility for universities to require 60 ECTS points per year. And does the rapporteur know why? It is because they have been put so tight economically that there are some universities that may not think this will be the world's best idea, but which will say: okay, that is a way we can get students through faster and improve our economy few. So that's right; that's where I changed their freedom. I wasn't ready to give them that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180619	Okay, so it's freedom under responsibility, but still not entirely freedom under responsibility, then we can hear. But why did the 45 ECTS end up, so why not 40 or 50? And how little or how much freedom do you get for 45 ECTS compared to the 60? So, for us, it was important that we put that decision to the institutions themselves, so they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the That was actually part of the discussions we had with each other. They are the ones who measure what the study activity requirement should be. So I don't really understand, sir. Jacob Mark's concern that you will suddenly push students too hard, because it is out to the individual institution you can choose for yourself. So what makes freedom under responsibility suddenly equal 45 ECTS points?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180702	It is above all because the economy in universities is so pressured that although universities may not think it is the world's best idea to demand that students pass 60 ECTS points, they will be able to see that it benefits their purses. I do not want to risk that, because what it may have consequences will be increased apostasy; it will be that some students will not get the education that they could have taken. And since Mrs Mai Mercado is asking me why it didn't land on anything else, I can say that SF's proposal was 30 points. But now the SF is an influential party that goes in and negotiates and makes the best of the negotiations, and then we landed at 45 points.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180738	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317180800	With the adjustment of the drive reform, we are now dealing with a number of the problems created by the previous reform. For let us just acknowledge it: the progress reform was too tight. And I believe that all of us rapporteurs have received very, very many emails from both educational institutions and students and other stakeholders who have explained in detail how tight it has been. What is important for us is that the goal of faster completion is in this way, and therefore universities must still meet the goal of having students to 4.3 months faster through the course of study. That is not, in fact, an unreasonable objective. A central part of the revised reform is then also a dispute with the requirement to register for subjects of 60 ECTS points per year, because now it will be up to the institutions themselves to determine whether they want such a requirement, and hence whether they will use it as a tool to get students through the education system more quickly. We think that is very positive. It is also positive that the educational institutions can lay down ongoing study activity requirements, and that is where we find the 45 ECTS points somewhat odd. Because when you give freedom, you might as well give real freedom. And if there are educational institutions that consider it important to have a full study activity requirement of 60 ECTS points, it would also have been very good for us. It is also very, very positive that educational establishments can now derogate from the rules for students who are entrepreneurs. Because there is no doubt that the rigid rules have prevented some entrepreneurs from pursuing their dream and business adventures because it has been important for them to get that education. Now they can pursue their dreams without throwing the entire education on the floor. Then it is also just before closing time that the transitional scheme for supplementary vocational training expires, and this would have meant that it would only be possible with professional supplement after admission to a Master's degree programme and with only 15 ECTS points. Thus, with this bill, the educational institutions will be able to apply conditional admission and the supplementary possibilities will be extended to 30 ECTS points. However, we would like to stress that it is important not to create an incentive for an unintended increase in additionality. With this bill, part of the freedom will be given back to the educational institutions, and we are very pleased with that. In general, throughout the negotiation process, there has been a desire within the conciliation circle to listen to stakeholders to ensure that we make some adjustments that can be used by educational establishments. So I'm gonna end where mr. Jacob Mark kind of started. I would like to thank you for the good cooperation between the parties and for the good, constructive spirit that has been under way. Of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181033	We have a few brief comments to make. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181036	Thank you to the rapporteur. What I'd like to say is a little specific. I have received a request from the medical students' association, which has just said that the framework for progress reform has not changed so much. This means that you, as a medical student, do not have the opportunity to take leave of absence and study after the adjustment. It is something that is very common for medical students to do and that there is a huge social gain, because there are a lot of good results from that. Will the rapporteur help to see whether it would be possible to increase the opportunities for these medical students to take leave and do research to the benefit of all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181122	I'm extremely happy to have that question. I almost knew what Mrs Eva Flyvholm would say. In fact, I have just answered an e-mail from the very collection of students who are affected by this and who just makes it clear that it is a challenge if you take leave to do research. I think they even wrote about the extent to which they deliver articles which are published afterwards. So I have said that I would like to raise it during the committee procedure. I think it is a good thing that we can discuss it, but I have not given any undertaking that it will go either way. I think it is important for us to say that when we adjusted the drive reform here, it was with a desire to make it more flexible and to put some of the barriers that we could see that the previous drive reform created. If this is an area in which we have not had enough or assessed enough, then I think that we should at least sit down and discuss it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181222	I am very pleased that the rapporteur says so. I would also like to look forward very much to discussing this here during the committee procedure. It is also a very good signal to send to other organisations that may also have input into the further process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181236	You can welcome the timing, as I have just got the question on the day when I have answered an email in this particular area. And then I regret that I was a little too fuzzy about the rapporteur's last name.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181246	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181248	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur has revealed that this is not everything that Conservatives and SF agree with. I guess I could take one more thing, even though we were pretty much in agreement. It's here with user charges. We had calculations made that showed that these supplementary courses with partial user charges will now cost between DKr 8,000. and 20,000 kroner. Does the rapporteur think that this is something that young people can just put up with? Does the rapporteur not think it would be quite difficult for young people to afford these supplementary courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181320	Now you always have to be careful to reveal when Conservative SF gets too much of an agreement. It's not usually something that we spread a lot. But it is true that we have had a good run. That is also why this agreement gives us an annual status where we can follow developments. That is also why I said in my rapporteur's speech that we do not want this increasing addition to take place, so that there will be much more supplement than today. Having said that, I have the wish and the view that when you study, you also have the responsibility for your own study, and if that means you have to take some subjects that cost money because you can see that it is exactly the dream study, what you want to talk about, then I also think that as a student you will be prepared to make those priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181411	The rapporteur says that the rapporteur's party is not necessarily so interested that there will be more supplementaries, but the rapporteur does not see a value in that, for example, there is a difference between the two. teachers and others who are professionally trained are just continuing to train and become smarter in their field and come out and contribute to society with extra knowledge, and will it not be harder to go that way when we have such a user fee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181433	When I say that I'm not so much for this mersuplation, it's all about us wanting students to make the right choice from the start. It should not be the case that you shop around and drag subjects down for an infinity. Having said that, I would also like to say that we actually agreed in the circle that something needs to be done in the field of additionality and that we could see that there is a challenge with the agreement that will come into force this autumn. That's why we made it, because we could see that it was too tightly laced together. So I actually think we've got a really good deal in place. It is an agreement with which we are following developments and we have said that it is not appropriate that we should go out and have a lot of additions in order to be able to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181513	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181524	I should like to begin by thanking you for the very good debate we have had in the Parliamentary Assembly here on L 125, and above all I would like to thank you very much for the broad majority of this House, which I have heard in support of the proposal. It is also a majority that goes beyond the actual parties to the agreement. So thank you for that. Let me continue the praise, because on behalf of the government I would also like to sign the negotiations that led to the agreement of 20 November 2015 on the adjustment of the progress reform. I understand that this was a good and constructive process. That is why I am very pleased with the support that has been given today. The aim of the 2013 progress reform, as has already been mentioned several times, was to promote an active study culture while at the same time making increased demands on both students and institutions for faster progress on studies. However, some of the elements of the drive reform have shown some inappropriate consequences. That is why my predecessor took the initiative to initiate a course of negotiations on the reform adjustment. That is what we are debating today. With the proposed adjustments, the institutions will have more freedom and a more flexible framework to organise training according to the specific challenges and needs. At the same time, the institutions will be given greater flexibility to achieve the objectives of study time reduction. The proposal removes the central requirement for registration for subjects and tests of 60 ECTS points per year. year of study for universities and higher education institutions under the Ministry of Culture. These institutions will then have to lay down their own internal rules for the registration of subjects and tests within a centrally defined framework. The institutions are given the opportunity to determine ongoing study activity requirements as well as on-going examination and presentations. In addition, the institutions will be able to grant derogations to students who are entrepreneurs or presidents of voluntary youth organisations, and we will provide better access to professional complements for candidates for Master's degree programmes. The universities which also provide professional Bachelor's degree programmes, such as: In the case of higher education diplomas, they can follow the same rules for the progress of studies as they apply to the university Bachelor's degree programmes. There is agreement among the parties to the agreement to maintain the objective of the economy behind the drive reform. The extent of study time delays in higher education must be reduced. Therefore, we maintain the overall goal that universities should reduce study time overrun by 4.3 months beyond the prescribed time by 2020, when the reform is fully phased in, compared to the 2011 level. With the reductions that have already taken place, this means that the target towards 2020 is a further reduction of 2.9 months. With the proposed adjustments, we provide more tools to promote study activity in higher education institutions. We also leave more freedom and responsibility to both the institutions and students. In addition, it is proposed that the character requirements for bachelor education can be applied to a limited part of the applicants. Finally, it is proposed to make it possible to reduce the payment of grants to universities if the dimension of education is exceeded. I look forward to the further examination of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181927	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317181930	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask if the rapporteur for the SF already lifted a little bit on the veil before • how much one can expect these user payments will be put on. I mean, how much does it want, for example? a teacher had to pay for a supplementary course to be able to continue studying at university? What size are we talking about? The second question I would like to ask the Minister is: how large or small apostasy does the Minister think it takes before the economic framework of the drive reform simply no longer holds up and the savings that the government and the conciliation parties have provided will be achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182021	As the debate has shown, and perhaps in particular in Mrs Mai Mercado's speech, it is, of course, a question of changing the supplementary model with the agreement here. In fact, there is a better chance of supplementing it. However, as Mrs Mai Mercado clearly pointed out, the whole point is to reduce the need for supplementing, because supplementing everything else is, after all, an extension of study time. So it is a separate objective of the reform as a whole that we avoid and reduce the use of additionality. As far as the specific user charge is concerned, I do not have the specific figures, and this is probably due to the fact that a final model has not been drawn up. It must be agreed with the institutions. However, the agreement concluded by the parties means that there is partial state funding, and then there will be a user payment, participant payment. This is because we do not want to return to the situation until so it is in that light that the changes need to be seen. As far as the economy is concerned, it is not the intention to fall out of the studies that is not the point of the progress reform. The point of the drive reform is that one must conduct one's study preferably within the prescribed time, but with the possibility of certain exceedances. So students are not meant to fall out of their studies on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182213	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182215	Thank you, Minister. It may well be that the students are not supposed to fall away, but that is, you might say, after all, one thing we do not have the ability to control from here. The Danish Students' Council of Commons has, for example: a large study among students who say that students are getting stressed and having difficulty conducting their studies, and that this is going to give rise to an increase in apostasy. Their numbers suggest that if only between 1-3 per cent. of the students fall away from it is, after all, very few students at some places of study, so it will completely undermine the financial basis of this drive-through reform, and so it has put pressure on people without achieving the economic impact of it. If this proves to be the case, will the Minister help to reopen the discussion on the economic framework for progress reform? That was one question. In relation to the user fee, I would like to ask you a few more questions during the processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182313	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182314	I think it is a good idea to ask questions during the committee procedure, because then we can take it in more detail there. I would like to emphasise what I have just said, namely that the point is not, of course, that students should fall away. The point is that students will have to complete the programme on a standardized period of time with opportunities for exemption and extension, as has also been shown in the debate and as is clear from both the agreement and also the bill. I would like to make a comment on that, of course, in my reply I should have made to the discussion on character requirements, which I understand Mrs Flyvholm is also very concerned about. However, I would like to say that I do not think it is to the credit of the debate that Mrs Flyvholm, in the way I have listened to her during the debate, is distorting what has actually been proposed with the bill here. Because what has been proposed is exactly what I think Mr Delors said. Jacob Mark mentioned it, giving universities a flexibility that they do not have today. If we as a university wish to introduce a character requirement today, it must apply to both quota 2 and quota 1 applications. This is what the University of Copenhagen has resigned. The draft law here allows universities to decide to use a character requirement for certain defined applicant groups, i.e. typically either quota 2 or quota 1. So when Mrs Eva Flyvholm, in the way I have listened to her, fears that there will now be a general character requirement for everyone similar to that which, for example, has been the case. The University of Copenhagen has announced, so the fact is that the draft law here allows for greater flexibility and thus something other than what Mrs Flyvholm has said in the course of the debate. Excuse me, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182508	Thank you, Minister. We're very large here at the end of the day on a Thursday. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182528	The debate is open. Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182547	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal we are discussing here is a follow-up to a law that was adopted back in 2010, also at that time by a Left Minister. In 2010 it was decided to grant more grants to higher education students travelling over longer distances, but on the other hand approx. 75 million kr. from students in upper secondary education. At the time we warned the Social Democrats about this priority, and it now seems that the Left has got a peasant singer. In any case, the money given six years ago to students with high transport costs will be removed. At that time it was very important for the Left to help this particular group of students, but one can say that interest has faded somewhat since then. If the money had then been returned to youth education, we might have talked about it, but instead it is now included in the financial bill package and in the tax concessions that have been made to people who buy expensive cars and people who inherit from their parents. This is done at the expense of a large group of students. This concerns, among other things: on people who want to be educated, people who travel across the country in this context. It is the case that many higher education courses are only found in one place in the country, and the bill we are dealing with here will then be an expense for all those people who have the ambition to improve their skills later in life. If you are a midwife in North Jutland, you can only get your further education in Odense, and if you are a mechanical worker in West Jutland who wants to continue training at DTU. So these are some of the people who get hit by this bill. One of the main reasons given by the Left in 2010 for introducing higher coverage for these students, that is to say to give more money to students travelling over long distances, was that you would do something for what the Left called Udkantsdanmark. But we can now see that this system will be removed from a number of municipalities far from the large cities. It is a question of, among other things: Kalundborg Municipality, Assens, Lemvig, Varde, Ringkøbing-Skjern and several others with them. As a student resident in the rural municipalities, one can therefore expect to have to look forward to paying a very large extra bill in the future if one wants to continue training in a larger city. So the concern that the Left had for rural areas in 2010 has now disappeared. On the part of the Social Democrats, we want as many people as possible to be able to take a qualification and that as many people as possible should have the opportunity to further train themselves later in life. This bill is going in exactly the opposite direction. Unfortunately, this undermines that possibility, but that is what happens when you want to find money for tax relief under the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182831	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317182847	Thank you. This bill, L 126, is an offshoot of the Finance Act. It is a question of adjusting some relatively favourable transport arrangements for students in higher education. It has been found that with the changes made back in 2013, there has been a very large increase in the utilisation of the transport allowance for transport between major cities in Denmark. This means that you travel across the country to take up your education, where in our view the purpose of these schemes was to ensure that you could get out of the countryside and into the big cities, but not that you could, for example, say rural areas and into the big cities. should be able to stay in Copenhagen while taking an education in Odense. It has several drawbacks. Among other things, it has. the disadvantage that, since there is a shortage of study accommodation in Copenhagen, a home is actually occupied there, while at the same time you have a long way to study and have to receive a large subsidy for it, and at the same time we know that it has a major impact on the implementation and quality of the education you get taken, whether you live close to or far away from the place of education. That is why we think it is acceptable to go in and cut these subsidies. It is not the case that you cut the whole grant away, but you do it less, and it is true that you get a slightly larger or rather larger amount depending on the assessment • self-payment if you choose to stay and not move after your education. There is one thing we would have liked to have looked at in connection with the work of the committee, because in the draft law a number of municipalities have been selected to be outskirts municipalities. And as the bill also says, there is no firm definition of what is outskirts. That's why we'd like to have a look at it. As far as I'm concerned, it's about stuttering. 80% of the costs which have accounted for the increase here, from transport between the major cities. We really want to have a little look at how the commuters are going, so we can see if some of these municipalities need to be changed or exchanged, so we're sure that this doesn't hit inappropriately. The idea is not to hit those who come from the outskirtsdanmark and want to enter the city and take an education; the intention is to say that if you live in the major educational towns, you probably should not have quite as much money as you get today. But I expect we will get that in the context of the committee's work. And then we in the Danish People's Party will be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183141	Thank you. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183147	Thank you. I really want to hear from the rapporteur about this education. The rapporteur says that you can move to Odense if that is where you read. That's right, a little bit along the way. But there are a lot of people in this country who need further education. When you have worked for a few years, you may want to take an education to become even more skilled. It's something we're all interested in. This is what happens to these people, too. After all, it is people who have family and who may live in rural municipalities who are not included in this proposal. Does the rapporteur not see at all that it is a problem that in this way you will be forced to pay extra thousands of kroner if you, for example, are forced to pay extras? as a midwife to take up her further training, which is only available in Odense?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183237	Now I very much see this as something that is aimed at young students. I don't see this as a special training measure. Yeah, you can get an extra payment of maybe 1,000 to 1,500 kr. a month, if you're traveling a long way around the country. No, I don't think that's so unreasonable. If continuing training is part of a job you have and you have to have further training, then it is in very many other ways. So I'm not quite sure I understand what the questioner is asking about. But I do not think it is unreasonable to say that if you are going to go around the country and take further training, then you yourself have a reasonable own-payment in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183321	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183323	Well, maybe you didn't get it, but you answered it and thank you for it, because I just asked if it's fair, and you thought it was. However, when you look at these municipalities here, the rapporteur will not admit that the whole of West Jutland is not covered by the bill that Haderslev, Næstved, Kalundborg and Assens are not covered. There are plenty of municipalities that have plenty of rural areas that are not covered by the bill. However, will the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183351	We must remember that we do not use direct indictments here in the Folketing. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183356	Thank you. That is why I said in my rapporteur's speech that I would have liked to look at how these commuters are actually going on, what the consequences will be for some of the outskirts which are not on the list. I think it is important to look at how the distribution is around the country. So, yeah, I'll give you that. That is one thing we are looking at, and I expect we will have a look at it during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183419	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183421	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this is the case if these things are not relaxed and we do not have any more of these areas included, for example. Kalundborg and some of the others who have been mentioned that the Danish People's Party will take the consequence of it and vote against this proposal, which would otherwise make it more difficult and more expensive for people living in rural areas to get transport to their place of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183451	Now the intention is not to make it more difficult and expensive for those living in the outskirts. I am quite sure that, in the context of the work of the committee, we will find some sensible solutions to the challenges that may arise. I haven't seen them yet, and that's why I'm going to take a stand on them when we see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183509	[Sound emission] 1,000 kr. more for transport to their place of education. This applies, among other things, to: Kalundborg, where I've been in high school. After all, it's not a metropolis, you might say. Then it is something so important to the rapporteur that one would say: if this is not done, then the Danish People's Party cannot support the fact that the money for transport is taken from the students?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183544	I would say that this is precisely important for the Danish People's Party, and we therefore believe that we should look at it during the committee work and find out how the challenges look, how they spread across the country, and then I am quite sure that we there will find a sensible solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183559	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183602	It will be a bit of a pseudo-debate, because the Danish People's Party basically wants a different proposal from what is at stake. The proposal that lies will mean that students who want to go to Kalundborg, Vordingborg, Næstved, Assens and all these municipalities will not be able to afford, or at least will have more difficulty in having advice, and it will also mean, as the hearing answers say, that it can potentially mean training closures. The Danish People's Party then imagines that you can remove all the small towns that, for example, can be taken out. is located on Zealand or in Jutland, from this during committee reading? Haven't you thought about this when you signed the Finance Act where somebody yelled up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183646	Yeah, we've been thinking about it. What this proposal is about is, of course, very much the transport between the major cities. That is why we also need to go in and look at where we are actually moving from time to time before we can decide what we need to do to find a final agreement. I am quite sure that we will do so during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183712	Now I sounded a little skeptical in my first speech, but I would still like to sign that, after all, the problem of hitting small towns around us can be seen. But I guess there are two models: either you find new money to get out of the outskirts, or you make it even more expensive to travel from Copenhagen to Odense or from the big cities and around. What kind of model does the Danish People's Party envisage working with during the committee work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183741	We are so objective, so we say that we want the mapping first, so we have an overview of what it looks like before we decide which model it should end up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183750	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317183759	Thank you. In the context of the examination of Bill L 126 on the amendment of the transport discount for higher education students, the Left wishes to vote in favour of this proposal. Today we have a very lucrative transport discount scheme for higher education students. It is a system which has proved to be both very different from what was intended and also to be much more expensive than initially assumed. Overall, expenditure has been 160 million. kr. higher than expected in the period from 2011 to 2014. In 2010, the current transport discount scheme was introduced in order not to penalise the young people who live far from the many training offers. Of course, young people from rural areas should not be hit harder on their purses than their contemporaries from the cities when travelling to and from the studio. Unfortunately, however, it has turned out that the rebate is being used in a slightly unintentional way, which we now choose to do something about. Very many students today travel very long distances because they do not want to live in their study city, and nothing less than 27,500 of the students in higher education who use the discount on transport live in one of the four largest cities. For example: chooses really, a lot of people on a large scale to live in Copenhagen while studying in Odense. In fact, it is one in eight students at University of Southern Denmark who commute from Copenhagen. Then I might also be a little outraged when I hear that there are students who have complained in the media that this bill is being used as an argument that they do not want to settle in, for example. cities like Odense, because there are not the same opportunities for shopping and cafes. In addition to this trend, I also think that it sheds light on the fact that there may be other negative consequences that we are now trying to remedy, namely that the housing market in Copenhagen will be considerably more pressured when the housing stock will house both students from Copenhagen and from other cities. In addition, a study from the University of Southern Denmark actually shows that also the dropout and distrust are significantly higher for students who live far from their place of education. I hope, of course, that with the adoption of L 126 we will counteract some of these trends. In addition, I am very pleased that the draft law continues to give priority to young people from rural areas so that they do not get hit on their purses when studying. 24 municipalities in rural areas are not covered by the new changes, as are pupils in upper secondary education. With this bill, which is also a follow-up to the 2016 Finance Act, we get targeted the discount for the students' monthly cards so that it works according to the original intention. With these words, I can announce that the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184132	There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184136	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that there are several students, for example. Some of those who have been mentioned, who live in Copenhagen, and who may have a family, have a boyfriend, children and work in Copenhagen, and then take some of their education at the University of Southern Denmark in Odense. Does the rapporteur really think that it is reasonable to simply demand that those people move from their families to live at the educational establishment that is there? Or does the rapporteur think it is reasonable to impose on students who already have little money to pay $1,000? more monthly to take that trip?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184230	You have to make choices all your life, and that's what these young people are going to do. I can easily understand if there may be some of these young people who think they prefer to stay in Copenhagen. But if so, for example... is to take care of a job or, for that matter, to be close to the family, one must also say that this is the choice they have made, and then they have also made the choice that it will be a little more expensive for them to study in Odense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184300	Then I would also like to hear from the rapporteur what this money is supposed to be used for. So here we are removing money from some of those in society who do not have much, namely our students, so what are they going to do? Are there plans for tax relief? Or what could it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184319	This is part of the financial law negotiations, and as Enhedslisten's rapporteur is also aware, a great many people are demanding money from the Treasury. So we were forced during the budget negotiations to find money everywhere, also because, among other things, we were forced to find money. We are also aware that, among other things, there was a political decision that the health services should be provided with more resources. The refugee pressure demands more money. I cannot say here today exactly what this money is going to go to, but overall we needed to find more money in different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184356	The next brief remark is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184400	Now the rapporteur must excuse me, if there is something I have overheard, it may actually have happened, but I was a little curious about the announcement made by the Danish People's Party that, compared to several of the cities that have been perceived by this bill, you would find money or make some kind of model, so that the students who commute there would not be included in it, and that could be Kalundborg, Næstved, Assens etc. Did the rapporteur say whether the rapporteur was willing to enter into such a debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184431	I can tell the SF rapporteur that I did not say that in my rapporteur's speech. What I actually emphasised was that there were 24 rural municipalities that would not be affected in this way by these savings, and I also believe that the reason why these 24 municipalities have been taken and maintained that they should not be affected was because, in the time of the previous government, these municipalities were designated as rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184508	But we can say that when you relocate state jobs to, for example. Næstved, it must be because you say, "Okay, you need to help Næstved on the way." So what you do is you say that they have a need, for example. Næstved, and state jobs are being relocated, but at the same time the student's transport discount to Næstved is being removed. In other words, does the rapporteur not really consider cities to be cities that might also need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184534	I also heard that the DF's rapporteur wanted to look at this a little more closely, and I have to say that I think it is quite fine that we do so during the committee procedure. But I still have to hold on to that when, in the time of the previous government, Mr. Carsten Hansen was a minister, himself made a decision as to which municipalities were considered to belong to the rural municipalities, presumably also on the basis of some consideration that there were certain criteria, and therefore they were so earmarked as rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184607	The last one I have recorded for a brief comment is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184611	Thank you. It has been a tough day today for those who care about people in Denmark who have low incomes. After all, it started with the discussion about cash benefits, so the integration benefit and now about people who are at the SU. So it's been beaten with the crib, you might say. I cannot help but go a little back in time to when this rule was introduced, because the rapporteur's party colleague, the rapporteur at the time, had the following reasons, and I quote: 'Based on a better balance in Denmark, special attention has just been paid to creating better conditions in the outskirts and for students living in the outskirts of Denmark. This is happening, among other things. by abolishing the current discount ceiling for the purchase of rail, bus or metro subscription cards. So that was the explanatory statement from the Left to make this legislation. So we have to understand that, now that we are abolishing it, the opposite is happening: that we want to create worse conditions or worse conditions in the outskirts and in what the Left calls Outskirtsdanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184721	I now like to call them rural. But having said that, I would like to say that these are the very ones that we are continuing to keep our hands on, including in this legislative proposal. After all, we are holding hands under the 24 rural municipalities and saying that there is no change here. It is, of course, and I have no problem standing here on the platform, firstly because the law inappropriately came to mean significantly higher costs than was expected, and secondly because it has actually become the case that by far, by far, the vast majority who benefit from this scheme, indeed live in Copenhagen and study, for example. in Odense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184802	I find it difficult to see it in other ways than that when you introduce a rule with the justification for wanting to help what the Left calls Outskirtsdanmark, it must not be but we must leave that alone. However, I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can follow the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in saying that this designation of outskirts municipalities or rural municipalities, as we call it, which was adopted by the VK government at the time, is flawed to the extent that you have as well as Lemvig as Holstebro, the rapporteur's own municipality, Billund, Kalundborg and many other municipalities which are not covered by it here. And will the rapporteur draw the consequences of this and make sure that today it is announced that it is intended to change this division?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184851	When the former government, led by the rural minister Carsten Hansen, chose to set up criteria to identify which municipalities were rural municipalities, it was decided to appoint certain municipalities. That is also what is included in the draft law here. We are still holding our hands under the rural municipalities and the young people who live there, so the bill we are debating today will not affect the young people in these rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184924	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317184940	It may not come as a crippling shock, but in the Enhedslisten we will not help make it more expensive for students to take trains and buses to their educational establishments. What the government calls targeting is simply a cut. More than 10,000 students will be affected by this, and if you have to pay, for example, DKK 1,000. more a month for your train card to the educational site, it's really, really much money when you're at the SU. It can easily cause your budget to overturn. It will therefore make it very difficult for students who already do not have so much money to make everyday life work together, to make it through the study. One might say that it seems a bit like today's theme to take money from people who are already under pressure. One might almost say that the Left is such an exponent to a kind of reverse Robin Hood model, where it is taken from the poor and given to the rich, and I think that is very, very worrying. I would also like to say that, in this context, I think it should also make an impression when universities criticise and say that this would destroy the mobility that may exist between the different educational establishments. In fact, there is a development in progress which universities are also interested in, namely that students can change more fluently between educational institutions. It can, for example, be done. be this: you can actually take some of your study in Copenhagen and some of your study in Odense, and also that you can still live away, for example. in Copenhagen and take an education at the University of Southern Denmark. If it is really good and you already have your job and your girlfriend and children living in Copenhagen, then it can be very, very difficult just to tear it all up with mess and move. Why not take advantage of the fact that there is actually a good opportunity to commute? Finally, as has been mentioned several times before, I would also like to state that the government is trying to make this sound like it's only about students commuting between Copenhagen and Aarhus and Odense. That is also true if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. is from Kalundborg, where I have been in high school, and although it is a very good, lovely place, it is therefore not a metropolis. Now it is actually the case that a faster train has finally arrived so that you can get from Kalundborg to Copenhagen. It is actually possible to commute on that stretch, and it would be realistic to stay in Kalundborg. Then why take the money from people, so that it actually means that more students will be pressured to move into Copenhagen? I simply do not think that makes any sense. So in the Enhedslisten, we certainly cannot support the fact that it should be more expensive and harder for young people to come by train to their place of education, and that is why we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185232	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's move on. It's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185248	With L 126 we are reintroducing the principle that there must be a link between, on the one hand, the value of what we acquire and, on the other hand, the price we pay for the acquisition. In the past, in some areas, the majority of the Folketing have worked to ensure that young people are not allowed to know the connection between costs and prices, for example. the relationship between the production of transport services and the cost of using them. One can understand in a sense that the majority are working to conceal how it is related to production costs and prices, because if there is something in this world that can spoil the good mood, then it is when you have to eat for nourishment. Therefore, the Danish Parliament has worked to postpone the time when young people find out that it is more expensive to produce a journey from Copenhagen to Aalborg than it is to produce a journey from Copenhagen to Valby. Now the government is proposing that this type of connection is no more brutal than that it can be exposed to young people in their twenties. And on the basis of the obvious adult-educational points of L 126 and the long-term positive consequences that the law will have for the morale of the descendants, we in the Liberal Alliance naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185410	Thank you very much. The draft law aims to limit what is called the cost of support for higher education students' subscriptions cards. The rules for higher education students' travel discounts have helped to increase the overall mobility of students, and this is, of course, a positive direction in the labour market as a whole • Why not, then, in the field of education? The draft law has some inappropriate consequences which are highlighted in the consultation responses. It affects students with high and compulsory travel activity; it affects students who, as part of their education, have spent a period of time passing the course to another place of study; and it affects students with internships as part of their higher education. Higher education has been able to attract students from a much wider geographical area and have used this opportunity well under the current rules. Among other things: Syddansk University, because of both its central location and a strong outreach work, has a large proportion of commuter students and is affected disproportionately by the bill simply because they have been good at attracting students from elsewhere in the country. In addition, part of the argument for the scheme as a whole is to give students incentives to use public transport instead of e.g. The proposal also restricts its own car and the positive effect of the scheme. We talk a lot in Danish politics about increasing labour supply. At the same time, there is also broad agreement in this Chamber that education is a really important focus for ensuring positive Danish development in the future. But the proposal here limits what we can call the supply of education, i.e. the number of students who have the opportunity to take courses or parts of programmes that fit specifically into their educational programmes, regardless of geography. It is counterproductive for the vision of a strong educationdanmark to restrict student mobility. The alternative does not see the increased cost of travel discounts for higher education students as an expense, but as an investment in the future workforce in which we train them to take part, and of whom we also expect them to have great mobility and flexibility in relation to the workplace. The alternative does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185627	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line with Mr. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185639	Thank you. This proposal is about reducing the cost of the transport discount arrangements for higher education students as well as students in upper secondary education. The Radical Left is opposed to the proposal, and we are, because it is important to remember that the extended transport rebates were introduced precisely because we wanted politically to make it more attractive for young people to use public transport when they were going to and from their respective educational establishments. The Radical Left, together with the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Social Democratic Party in 2012, therefore voted in favour of giving priority to investing in public transport and reducing tariffs. In this context, we introduced the youth card scheme, which has provided free public transport to the youth card owner throughout the tariff area in which he lives. Similarly, the youth card owner has received reduced prices for travel in other parts of the country. This has benefited a great many young people as well as students in higher education and students in youth education. And that is what we radicals think is really good. A strong priority for transport discounts shows that, on the part of society, we both support our students in their daily struggle to make the economy coherent, while at the same time supporting and prioritizing our public transport. Thus, the Radical Left cannot support this bill to limit the cost of the transport rebates.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185806	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317185813	When the 21-year-old law student Julie Strøm Johnsen leaves his apartment at Nørrebro to take the train from Copenhagen to his first semester at the law degree at SDU in Odense, the trip will cost her more than DKK 1,000. more a month than it does today. It wrote metroXpress today, and it was also about time that the press got more focus on it. Because this proposal already came during the budget negotiations, all of a sudden, where we were looking at each other and now I want to tell you a little bit about what happened and thought: this is going to remove a large part of the income base for many students, so does the government really mean this? But the government seems to think so. At least now it has been put forward as a legislative proposal, and it is a proposal that will mean quite a lot to quite a lot to many students. This proposal has implications for over 10,000 students. So to make it sound as if it only just hits some big city students who could just move into some homes, which, by the way, are not available due to many other circumstances right now, I might think a little arrogant. Map from Copenhagen to Odense will increase by 1,000 DKK. and to Næstved with several hundred kroner, and the same goes for Kalundborg, Assens, Slagelse There are three main reasons why we think this is a really bad proposal. The first is something that has not been much talked about, and it is, as DSB writes in their hearing answer, that this will incur additional costs for between 50 million. kr. and 100 million kr. In other words, when you suddenly charge DSB expenses of that magnitude, we know who it is. Then it hits the people who use DSB, that is, all of us. So what we can look forward to on the basis of this bill is also more expensive tickets for many other people. The next reason why we are voting against is the consideration of the outermost regions of Denmark. I think it is completely insane to spend a great many millions and also billions on transferring state jobs to areas where it is said that additional efforts are needed, for example. Næstved, and then a month goes by, and then you say you won't pay for students studying in Næstved, so you get a transport discount to Næstved. This then means that educational institutions, among other things. writes in the consultation answers that this could lead to training closures. With all due respect for the state jobs, and I think it is actually good to look at whether you can relocate government jobs, so it will give more life out in the outermost regions if you, like, give priority to training, that is, if there is educational life out there. So I'm really happy to hear that the Danish People's Party will be involved in looking at how we can sort of hold hands under cities like Næstved, Kalundborg, Assens. Compared to Kalundborg, it will be a disaster if the city suddenly loses its student base. Then there is the last and third reason why we are voting against, and that is the social mobility that this proposal will also affect. And this is not just something the red politicians up here make up, it is SDU itself, the educational institution, CBS itself, the educational institution, who writes that this will be a barrier to student mobility, and that it will increase the drop-out and damage healthy competition between educational institutions. So this is going to mean that some of the students that we might want to take an education drop out and drop out. And I would just say that also costs a lot of money. One of the reasons why you want to get more young people through more quickly is that we can get an increase in the number of jobs quickly. Then it will be really expensive if people suddenly have to drop out of their education because we cut their transport discount away. And is there any savings at all? In fact, I think that this seems to be a rather ill-thought-out proposal that affects both the students and the peripheral areas and the DSB. And so I have no intention of hitting any of them, on the contrary. So we're voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190217	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190228	Today, young students have access to a very advantageous system of discounts for transport. The scheme covers the distance between their place of residence and the place of training without distinction as to how far they otherwise commute. After all, students themselves have also seen the lucrative rebate system, and so the total cost has increased by 310 million. kr. From 2011 to 2014. In concrete terms, the draft law proposes that 50% should be allocated only. discount on monthly cards, which costs more than DKK 2,071. a month. And it makes good sense to target the discount scheme so that the discount on the most expensive subscription cards is reduced. In the Conservative People's Party, we are not really concerned about whether it will reduce mobility in terms of travelling across the country, because it must also be the case that you have a personal responsibility as a student. I remember when I myself studied political science in Odense and on the Master's degree programme got an internship in Copenhagen; the internship was unpaid and I paid for my monthly card myself. At the time, in the good old 00s, the discount rates were not as good as they are today. But I am quite convinced that it did not mean that students chose the other cities as internships, it was just the student himself and therefore not the state who paid, and I think that principle is actually fine. It has never been the intention that the state should pay for large-scale commuting between major cities. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill. And I should just like to add that I am glad that the young people living in rural areas are exempt from the provisions of this bill, so that if you live in one of the rural areas and have a long way to your place of education, it will not be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190359	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190404	Thank you. It is, of course, a heartbreaking story from the rapporteur's own study period, but there are others who study in other ways, and I would really just like to ask the rapporteur whether, in the debate that has been held, the position taken by the Conservatives has taken into account the fact that there are people who, after they have been trained, may wish to take higher education in the middle of their lives and that those courses typically only exist in one or two places in the country. Does the rapporteur think that it is right for these people to be charged this extra cost when they typically live with family and children in a part of the country and cannot move in the same way as students can?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190445	Yeah, we think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190449	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190451	I also understand that the rapporteur believes that rural communities are covered, and now it is something that has also been mentioned earlier. Does the rapporteur not think that municipalities such as Lemvig, Varde, Ringkøbing-Skjern, Kalundborg, Assens can be categorized as rural municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190511	It is actually a really exciting debate because, as I remember it, the former rural minister, Carsten Hansen, was in the vicinity of three years to define a rural area. I myself was a rural rapporteur, and it took an incredibly long time, so if you do not have an unambiguous and clear definition, it would be amazing to me. I feel that, of course, you need to have access to education, but I also think it has to be said that some of the schemes here have been used if, for example, you would like to extend your internship more widely, and then you applied for an internship in one place rather than another, but you have also seen in some studies that it has meant a greater apostasy if students do not move to the city of study but choose to commute far to the city of study. So I really don't think we're going to see an increase in apostasy as a result of changing this rebate system. I think you'll see that there may be more students moving to town. When Mr. Kaare Dybvad mentions this family father, I just have to say that if you choose to want to train, you have to take the things that come with you, and that is, for example, moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190619	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190626	I am also a little interested in this debate on the outermost regions, because I understand that the Conservatives are taking part in the idea of transferring state jobs to areas where it is thought that there might be a need for a little extra life and apparently some extra jobs. That is, for example, the case. Næstved, and Næstved is one of the cities hit by this bill, where they say that we can no longer help the students who want to read in Næstved to the same extent. So, isn't it a little strange with one hand to give state jobs and with the other hand to cut away the opportunities for young people to read in Næstved, if you live elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190707	I think that is precisely where you will see a fairly large ideological difference between the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, for Mr. Jacob Mark uses expressions such as the fact that you get hit by, so you still get away with a grant. It's just not as lucrative, as favorable a grant as it used to be. So this isn't about students being hit by something; they're just getting a grant that's a little smaller than what they got before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190730	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190732	Now the Danish People's Party said in the debate that they were ready to look at whether to exclude some of these areas and to say that Næstved or Kalundborg, or some of the other areas where one could talk about whether they were outskirts, should be exempted. Is that something the Conservatives want to take a look at? I think that might be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190754	I am actually puzzled if you do not have a very precise definition of the term a rural municipality, since the former rural minister, Carsten Hansen, spent incredibly many years defining it. Well, it was the big project in the SR government that Carsten Hansen had to define what a rural municipality was. So if you have not defined it, if there is not a clear, unambiguous definition of it, then I think it is wrong. I do not reject a discussion, and I never reject a discussion in committee. I just have the impression that it is fairly precisely defined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190829	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317190836	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate on Bill No. L 126. Then I would like to stress that today we actually have a very favourable transport discount scheme for young people who go to higher education. The scheme means that young people will pay a maximum of DKK 615. for a monthly card covering the distance between their residence and their place of education, regardless of how far they commute. In addition, the transport discount scheme forms part of the youth card, which includes: also allows for unlimited travel in its own tariff area. The transport rebate system is a system which has been so much taken up by those seeking training, and I am actually proud that among other things. My own party was a co-initiator of the implementation of the scheme at the time. At that time there was a great deal of opposition among the parties who want to maintain the system today, and that is amazing, but so is politics. But it is also a system that has become more expensive, actually much more expensive than what we expected when we adopted the scheme back in 2010 in its current form. Overall, the cost of higher education students has been 160 million. kr. higher than expected in the period 2011-2014. As a follow-up to the 2016 Finance Law Agreement, the government therefore proposes to increase the self-payment for higher education students by reducing the discount on the most expensive subscription cards, which especially students commuting between the major cities have. We do so for a number of reasons. Almost half of the 55,000 higher education students using the transport discount scheme live in one of the country's four largest cities, one third of them in Copenhagen. Among other things, it has. the effect that it will be difficult to find a reasonably cheap accommodation in Copenhagen for students who read there. The students in the largest cities commute widely to education in another part of the country and often to education in the other major cities. That is not appropriate and that was not the intention of the scheme when it was introduced. A study of the dropout pattern at SDU shows that apostasy risk and dissatisfaction are greater for students living far away from their place of study, but when they move to the educational towns, they follow the same pattern as the other students. The purpose of granting a discount on travel to students is to support the possibility of education for everyone in the country, no matter how far away you live from the educational establishment. However, it has never been the intention of the scheme that students should to a large extent commute between large cities. Therefore, it makes very good sense to target the transport rebate scheme so that we maintain an advantageous arrangement, but at the same time release funds to prioritise other welfare areas, and that is what has happened with Finance Law 2016. The government will therefore lay down rules that students living in rural municipalities are not covered by the increased own payment. And just a few words in connection with the debate that has been about rural municipalities and about what is a rural municipality and what is not a rural municipality: I know there is no such an official and unambiguous and chrome-plated definition of what is a rural municipality. What we have done in connection with the bill here is that we have the skeleton of what is being done in the Treasury and we lean on the Ministry of Taxation's definition of what is a rural municipality, and it is actually clear from the comments to the bill that this is the definition that we stick to. I'll be happy to elaborate. Finally, it should be noted that the draft law does not affect the right to a discount according to the rules applicable to pupils in upper secondary education. I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191317	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191323	Thank you very much. I really appreciate the Minister's clarification, you might say, of what this rural concept is in this bill. One could hear from the two rapporteurs from the Left and the Conservative People's Party that at least they have not read the bill, because it is clearly referred to section 9 of the equation law, which was established in 2007, i.e. under the VKO following the municipal reform, and that is the one that is used to define it here. It is certainly a good thing that the Minister can then put the two bourgeois rapporteurs into the context of this. However, I shall now continue on the track that has also been asked about earlier. Because it was the case that at least the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party opened the door to perhaps look at what kind of municipalities are covered by this. And one can say that throughout West Jutland and a large part of South Jutland, West Zealand etc. There are a lot of municipalities that aren't involved in this. Will the Minister go with the Danish People's Party in the direction that states that rural municipalities in a broader interpretation than that made in Section 9 of the equation law in 2007 should be included in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191428	So, of course, I am available during the committee procedure to answer any questions that may arise. What I explained here in my reply was just how we have defined the concept of rural municipalities in the comments to the draft law. And that's where we lean on the equation law, that's... The definition by the Ministry of Taxation, everything else equal, because it is, of course, about what it is about tax exemptions. That's what we've been leaning on. However, I stress that the rural definition itself varies according to what you want to look at. I understood the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party there that the list of municipalities we have chosen to bring in the bill here, and that is what we have chosen to lean on, maybe not necessarily say anything about what it costs to commute from the municipalities in question. So, of course, I am prepared to look into this if the Danish People's Party and others have a wish to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191543	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191545	Thank you very much for that answer. I would also like to ask about another point that came up here during that. There were slightly different answers to the question as to whether you think it is fair that you should, for example. Midwives living in Lemvig have to pay these 1,500 DKK. extra, or how much it is to be able to further train in Odense, which is then the only place in the country where you can further train yourself if you are a midwife. 1,500 kroner. For some people it is not so much, but for other people it is more in the household budget. And so there were some slightly different answers from the bourgeois side of the Chamber, in relation to whether one thought it was reasonable. And then I'm gonna ask you if the Minister thinks that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191625	I think that is quite reasonable, if not the example, as Mr. Kaare Dybvad brings here, holds true. Well, if it's in line with reality, I actually think it's fair, as long as you're a trained midwife... that's how I understand the example... but I want to continue training. This means that we want to invest in future sources of income, that is to say to make ourselves more skilled and thus to ensure that links with the labour market are maintained. This means that you have an interest in the education that you are taking, and that education should, of course, also lead to perhaps a higher salary or, at least, to maintaining a link with the labour market. So I agree with Mrs Mai Mercado that we ourselves also have a responsibility in such situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191716	Thank you, Minister. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191721	Thank you. I am still a little in search of that understanding of what peripheral municipalities or regions are and how the government, like it, prioritises. I don't understand. I'm SF's, too. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. On the contrary, students who go to Næstved are punished. Does the Minister not think that this bill will have the opposite effect than what the government had actually said it would have with its ambitions for the outermost regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191802	No, I don't think so. And, as I have said, there is no such official definition of what a rural community is. What we have chosen here is, as I said, to lean on the Ministry of Taxation's definition of what is a rural municipality in relation to transport. That is where it will be relevant to use the list here, as the draft law also shows. Then there may be other situations where it is relevant to bring other municipalities into play. I am not sure that Næstved necessarily regards himself as a rural municipality. Well, Næstved is everything else equal after all a larger provincial town in that context. However, when the government decided to relocate state jobs, it was about getting a better distribution of state jobs than the one we have had so far. Of course, there's another map you're looking at than what we need to look at in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191911	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191913	I think the Minister is right that Næstved does not regard himself as a rural municipality either. That would also be wrong, I think. But that was just the point of moving state jobs there to help, and I think it is a little strange that the student base of the educational institutions should be removed potentially, and I would really like to hear about that from the Minister. After all, the consultation answers say that some of the educational institutions are afraid that this could potentially lead to closure or, at least, closure of lines, because they are afraid of losing the student base. Doesn't the Minister think this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317191946	Well, actually, I don't think that's gonna happen. Paragraph 1, that has never been the intention of this proposal, which, as I recall, Mr President. Moreover, Jacob Mark's party was opposed when it was adopted, but let it be that it should develop there, that it should be commuted to the extent that we are experiencing it at the moment, between the major cities. That was not the purpose of the legislation at the time. As we can see, paragraph 2, that is what has happened, I think we also have an obligation to adjust and amend, just like Mr Tugendhat. Jacob Mark argued when we discussed the progress reform earlier, namely that if there is something that does not work as intended, we, as politicians, naturally have an obligation not to be too fine to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192038	The next is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192042	Well, I'd like to hear about something from the Minister. This is going to hit a lot of thousands of young people, over 10,000, we see, spread across the country. We must now say that it hits, whether you live in Copenhagen or Kalundborg or Næstved or Odense. How does the Minister intend that young people with an SU of less than DKr 6,000 should be able to pay somewhere between DKr 500-1 500? extra a month in transport to their education? Are they going to work more? Do they have to take out more loans? How did the Minister think this would be for the students? And isn't there a very high risk that such an extra financial burden will actually make more students find it difficult to complete their education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192138	I would like to stick to what was the purpose of this legislation when it was introduced. The aim was to ensure that if you lived outside the major educational centres, you would not be fairly punished if you wanted to pursue higher education. In this light, the transport scheme was implemented here back in 2010. It turns out that it has developed into a relatively attractive scheme for young people commuting between large cities. There is one example that I think Mrs Flyvholm used in her rapporteur's speech, namely to live in Copenhagen, but to study in Odense. There are many examples of this. That has never been the purpose and purpose of the law in its time. That is why I think it makes a great deal of sense to adjust it, but, of course, in the context of this adjustment, the target group, which was the original target group, namely the young people who live outside the major educational centres and who want to undertake training.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192255	But now what I asked the Minister was actually: Doesn't the Minister think that taking a lot of money from about 10,000 students • let's just say that they're gonna lose maybe $1,000? Each one can have the consequence that more young people find it difficult to complete their studies, because then they have to work more, borrow more, whatever it may be? That is actually what I am asking the Minister here. What's this gonna mean? I am really afraid that it will make life very, very hard for the students. The result will be that fewer people have the opportunity to carry out education, and I certainly do not think we have any interest in that as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192334	I do not share the concerns of Mrs Eva Flyvholm and the Enhedslisten here, and I do not do so with reference to a study of the pattern of apostasy on SDU. I also referred to it in my answer here in the debate. There they have clearly come to the conclusion that the further away from the studio, you are resident, the less well you thrive. So, with reference to the analysis by the SDU, I do not really believe that you need to have the concern expressed here by Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192411	We thank the Minister for Education and Research. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192430	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Julie Skovsby from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317192447	Thank you. What we are dealing with here tonight is a proposal for savings which will make it harder for skilled workers to carry out further training while they are doing their jobs and which will completely eliminate the possibility that people with short higher education can receive SFU, State adult education support, during and further training. The bill is part of the 2016 Finance Act and specifically means that the SFU rate for higher education is reduced from 80 to 60%. As I have said, the draft law reinforces the need for the educational background of the student so that those with short higher education will not be able to receive the SVT in the future. Continuing training is one of the best means of redistribution we have. In fact, I think the government thinks so too. Unfortunately, the tool is used quite wrongly in the 2016 Finance Act because what is the redistribution that the bourgeois parties are actually making when, on the one hand, they propose savings on the SFU, the State's adult education support, and, on the other hand, will provide tax relief for few corporate heirs and reopen tax gaps? It's a really bad idea and a skewed redistribution. The same applies to the expensive housing job scheme, which provides virtually no jobs. It is money that we at least believe could be used differently. The timing of this austerity proposal is poor. Because we start to hear so little about the good stories, the good stories, where production companies expand the company or take production back home to Denmark. I am very concerned about the Production Denmark, and I like the basic idea that a skilled education is an education that can always be built on, even while you are in the labour market. It is to me to see not only an advantage for the individual and his family, where children see that mother or father rises educationally and becomes more skilled in their subjects and learns new skills, but also an advantage for the whole economy. The previous government had just a focus on education policy and a marked increase in competence of the workforce in Gækstplan DK. Unskilled workers must be raised to skilled workers and skilled workers must be raised to technical and KVU levels. It is actually amazing that the government and the other bourgeois parties, even at a time when Denmark is on its way out of the crisis, are not able to think long-term. That's too bad. It is a pity for productivity, and it is a pity for growth in Denmark. It is also part of history that it is actually a very short time ago that we in the Danish Parliament looked into the SFU. It was in the 2013-14 collection. The adjustment of the SFU at the time took place by a very broad majority in the Folketing. It may therefore also be surprising that, two years later, the system will be changed again. Although the bill at that time was also part of a Finance Law Agreement, namely the Finance Law Agreement for 2014, it was a draft law in a completely different light and in a completely different context. In addition to the fact that we are talking about a time when the then government worked hard to get Denmark safely and well through the economic crisis, priority had been given to summer's major admissions to ordinary education. Funds had been set aside for the primary school, one billion for the increase in competence, and the VEU billion was also included in the Growth Plan DK. Today we are witnessing, in addition to the unfair tax cuts for example. rich heirs and wealthy homeowners also the government's so-called re-priority contribution, which certainly does not make the situation any easier. It goes without saying that the savings in the citizen's welfare make it extra difficult to find resources for continuing training. The employers' association of the financial sector notes in their hearing that the government has a policy that companies should not be burdened with new financial burdens and that this is a short-term saving which will backfire in the long term. The draft law does indeed read in the paragraph on the negative impact on business that employers must make a greater financial contribution to the participation of employees in continuing training during working hours. Following this, KL points out in its consultation reply that the draft law does not contain any detailed estimates of the economic impact of the municipality, but, on the other hand, the changes are expected to involve a total reduction in government expenditure of 56.5 million. kr. Many of the consultation responses describe how the draft law can have a negative impact on vocational school teachers and thus counterproductive efforts to improve the quality of vocational education and training, as, for example, the Metropol vocational school formulates it. Or as Danish Business Schools write, the proposal does not seem to harmonize with the intentions of the vocational school reform on the upgrading and further training of vocational school teachers as a basis for the desired quality improvement in vocational training. In their consultation response, the LO points out that the draft law contradicts the demand for highly qualified labour that is present both in the private and public sectors, and in direct contradiction with the intentions of the July 2014 growth package to redeem the job potential in a strengthened training boost for more skilled people to a higher level. This is merely a selection of the draft law's critical consultation response. As I am sure it is clear, we Socialists cannot vote in favour of Bill L 127.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193150	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193156	I really find it very surprising that the Socialists do not support this proposal, because it is a continuation of the targeting that began in 2014. It is exactly the same desire, it is exactly the same ambition, namely that citizens who are working with very little or no education can use this SFU scheme. So I just want to ask what has changed in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193222	I certainly do not think, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that this can be compared to the adjustments made by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament in 2014. At that time, the government prioritized education much higher. This is a purely austerity proposal. I would like to say, on the other hand, that I am very surprised that the Conservatives want to impose additional burdens on employers, both in the private sector and in the public sector, with this proposal, and that we cannot see what is written in the consultation answers, namely that this is a very short-term saving which does not benefit productivity in Denmark or the Denmark that we want to be strengthened by both education and production companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193315	As far as I remember, there was also a saving in the bill passed in 2014 just to get it in place. Mrs. Julie Skovsby said that now the good stories are beginning to turn up. In other words, the fact is that the SFU scheme is widely applied to higher education and is therefore not being used by those who have no or very little education. Then I just want to ask whether Mrs. Julie Skovsby agrees that the facts are always better than a good story.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193350	At least this has to be said again, although I also said it in my rapporteur's speech, that in 2014 we had a completely different focus on education policy in this country. In addition to the additional funding and one billion in the reform of the primary school, there was the VEU billion in Growth Plan DK, and several things were carried out that strengthened education policy in Denmark. So to say that this and the savings that are being used to finance tax cuts can be compared to what has been done in the past is actually wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193444	The next brief remark comes from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193450	I would really like to follow up on what Mrs Mai Mercado said. Isn't it really remembered that there was actually a saving in the SFU law back in 2014? Is that not something that the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament can confirm with either a 'yes' or a 'no' vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193509	We made a financial law agreement that prioritised education. We had a large number of measures which gave priority to education, and then we made yes, indeed some adjustments that were necessary, with a broad majority in the Folketing. What you are doing now with this finance law is that you want to give tax relief to a few company heirs, want to close tax holes, you want to spend money on an expensive housing job scheme, and you spend this money on something quite different from education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193555	Thank you. Now it is not all the other laws that we are dealing with in this Chamber today, but in fact this law concerning the SVU, and we are adapting what it was originally intended to do. That's why I'd like to talk about it again. As I heard the rapporteur, it was a yes that the amendment made to the SFU Act in 2014 meant savings. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193621	I think that some good adjustments were made in 2014, which were necessary, and the money that was spent at the time has to be seen in a larger context. The same applies to the re-prioritisation that is now being made, which is, after all, directly for tax relief. It is precisely in the context of the re-priority contribution that it also helps to make continuing training more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193659	Thank you. The next one is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193705	Thank you. It is a bit funny to hear Mrs Skovsby speak as if the resolution we were debating about. 2 years ago, was not a saving proposal. It was exactly the same arguments, it was exactly the same kind of saving that was then. So I would like to confirm that it was actually a savings proposal in the same way as you could say that this is a savings proposal that was made to find some money and that it had the same focus as this proposal has.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193738	There is a significant difference. What we are doing now is reducing the rate from 80%. of the highest daily allowance rate at 60%. I assume that this is also where a large part of the savings that are now being made are found. That wasn't the kind of adjustment we made. We made an adjustment in relation to who made use of the training, and I think that is a significant difference. When comparing two financial laws, you have to see them in their context: what kind of financial law are we dealing with here for 2016 and what kind of financial law was it in 2014? There's a million differences between these two.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193834	I don't know how much difference there is. Mrs Julie Skovsby said a moment ago that this was about tax relief. I don't know exactly where the tax relief is in the Finance Act from which this came. It is true that there is a difference between tariffs, but the main aim at the time, which was now to shift the use, because use was also then that it was to a large extent those who had some training in advance who took advantage of these systems. It was not those without education, and it is, in fact, the same aim as there is today. Wouldn't Mrs. Julie Skovsby confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193914	I very much hope that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will know his own financial law, which has been voted in favour of, and which will now be voted in favour of by means of this bill. And yes, there are tax cuts in that Finance Act. There are tax cuts for few company heirs and tax gaps are reopened. There are skewed tax concessions for wealthy homeowners. So yes, there are tax cuts in the Finance Act, which the Danish People's Party votes for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317193949	We thank Mrs. Julie Skovsby. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194004	This bill is like the previous bill... something related to the Finance Act. It is true, of course, that there are some savings, and that is why you have it in that way and you can always discuss what is most appropriate to do. One of the important things for the Danish People's Party is that the focus in this is to maintain that the aim of the SFU schemes is to support that those who have no education or have very, very little education have the opportunity to get some more education. And that's why we can support this. I have been looking at my rapporteur's speech from two years ago, when we also supported the corresponding direction with the same reservations, namely that it is a shame to save education in general. But when it comes to it, this has the right weighting, the right priority. Therefore, the Danish People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194109	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194123	Thank you. Then we have come to another legislative proposal, in which we actually simply adapt things to what was originally intended by the law, and that is how the Left votes in favour of the proposal. The tight financial framework that we have requires clear priorities, and it also means that we have to turn every penny to find out where we might also save some money. The draft law we are now considering has been tabled, as has also been said by previous rapporteurs, in accordance with the Finance Act. The aim of the law was originally to raise those people who either had no education or had hardly any education. One would give a hand and ensure that these people could qualify through more education. But today it actually turns out that as much as 67 per cent. of the applicants to the SFU take a higher education course, and that was not originally the intention of the law. In these years, when, as I mentioned before, there is also a tight framework and where priority needs to be given, it has been a decision taken in connection with the financial law proceedings that there was an area in which we, as the previous government, also chose to do in 2014 to look at how to adjust the SFU part. I think it is important for us to be able to offer a skilled workforce, which is in demand on the Danish labour market at all times. It is important that the job security of Danish citizens is great, and we in the Left believe that it is essential that we also train as best we can and that we train not for unemployment but for employment. Perhaps I also think it is important to emphasise that Denmark is the OECD country which spends the most money on education, and nothing less than 7.9%. of our GDP goes to education. These conditions clearly demonstrate that education is a very high priority in Denmark. I am pleased with the draft law being discussed here today because, as I said, it helps to ensure a more targeted allocation of the SFU. I also think it is worth pointing out that the draft law will not bring about changes in the SVT for people at primary or secondary school level, and in this way we can continue to ensure in these cramped times that those in society who need it most can be trained. I believe that, as the rapporteur for education, I and the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group are now involved in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194428	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194435	Thank you. I'd like to hear about something. At this time, more than ever, we need to train the workforce with both short and long training. It therefore seems short-term to save the SFU and make it more difficult to provide the necessary training for example. vocational schools teachers, not least in connection with the introduction of ambitious vocational training reform. Can the rapporteur explain to me the wisdom of taking money from an upskilling of, for example. Our teachers at vocational schools and apply them to tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194517	Thank you. I would actually say, as the previous rapporteur for the Socialists said, that it was always pointed out that this money would go for tax relief. I have to say that it sounds as if the Socialist rapporteur is perhaps more in control of it than I have. In any case, I have to say that in the context of the financial law negotiations there were a great many things that had to be found for money and some of them, among other things. If money is to be found for health, then the government has clearly said that this is one of the things we would like to prioritise in the future too, in other words that more funds are being allocated to health and, for that matter, also to our elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194606	At any rate, it has to be said that this government in the Finance Act has chosen to save on education in general, and that is why it can annoy me specifically in relation to the vocational schools too, since we have done such an ambitious project together that this proposal makes it more difficult to further train, for example, vocational school teachers. We urgently need this. The rapporteur explains that this is a more targeted way of doing this. I would like to know how, for example. This makes it more difficult for teachers to train.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194653	When I say it's more targeted, it's on the basis of what was actually the idea with this bill, that is, originally. It was, after all, that one wanted to ensure that the support was given, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that those who either have no training or, for that matter, have less training could receive an education. That is actually the idea of the law from the outset, and that is actually what we are now adjusting to in such a way that we actually ensure that the law complies with the original intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194729	Thank you. The next is Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194734	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen keeps talking about priorities, and I agree that priority is very good. I am just so deeply opposed to the rapporteur of the Left in the priority that the Left is clearly setting out, because the Left is giving priority to the funds, so that they are going to continue a housing job scheme, tax relief on expensive cars and, moreover, to future promises to the richest in terms of top tax relief. That's what the Left wants. The Socialists, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur said, want to invest in education and training, among other things. ensure that people have the opportunity to train throughout their lives, in relation to how far their abilities go. I just have to say that I just think it's sad to see how unambitious the Left is in this context. But I would like to know whether Mrs Anni Matthiesen simply believes that the Left does not want to support the vision that one should be able to continue to train throughout one's life as far as one's abilities go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194833	Yes, Mrs Mette Reissmann is quite right that it is a matter of priorities, and I am happy to stand up for that. When it comes to making difficult decisions, even in times of economic pressure, it requires that you have politicians who dare to make decisions. We chose to do so in the context of the financial law negotiations. And I have to say that I also regret the fact that Mrs Mette Reissmann, as well as the Socialist Group, has said that this is necessary at all. I would therefore like to see enough money in the Treasury, which we could also spend extra on education for that matter. Unfortunately, however, we were given a treasury from the previous government, which contained considerably less money than we had actually expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317194924	I would just like to refute what Mrs Matthiesen has to say. In other words, the rapporteur's own Finance Minister has had to admit on several occasions that there was a surplus in public finances when the Liberals took over government. So don't keep touring around with that lie, because that's just not true. But I'd like to hear about something. After all, the Left is insanely concerned about setting a ceiling on everything and, as I see this bill, an economic ceiling has been set so that people can continue to train at all, as we now have 20 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on this matter. What incentive does Mrs Anni Matthiesen think you have when, in the middle of life with family and obligations in every possible way, if I base myself on the figures in the bill, you have less than DKK 10,000? a month before tax to live for at all? Yeah, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195013	I can confirm to Mrs Mette Reissmann that, yes, we are wrestling I think the term was also something of here; as well as when we dealt with this bill at the end of 2014 in the time of the previous government, where some was also poured out and some savings were made in exactly the same area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195038	Thank you. And the next is Mrs. Julie Skovsby from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195042	Thank you. I would just like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for a slightly longer rapporteur speech than the Danish People's Party Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahls. I would also have liked to ask a question there, namely: at the time this adjustment was made in 2014, when only one party in the Danish Parliament voted against a very broad majority was therefore in favour of the adjustment here mentioned neither the rapporteur of the Left nor the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it had this proposal on slippage that it wanted to reduce the daily allowance rate. Why is it that you are now standing here just two years later, and then you will be doing this, which gives noise, as we hear, because the systems are arranged differently • some can get 80%, others can get 60%.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195148	First of all, I would like to thank the roses for the slightly longer speech I gave to the rapporteur. And I can say that I certainly believe that the DF's rapporteur would also like to answer the question if the Socialist rapporteur did not get it put to him. I can easily, as I said to Mrs Mette Reissmann, regret the fact that these measures may need to be taken. But we need to set political priorities, and fortunately we now have a government which also cuts through and dares to set these political priorities. And I have to say that I would have liked to have seen it not to have been necessary. I would have liked us to have been able to avoid having to find additional funds in the field of education as well. However, we are in a situation of pressure, and also the refugee situation, which is well known to everyone in this Chamber, is pushing the economy in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195253	Thank you. But now I asked how it could be that the Left told us not so recently in this Chamber that they were going with the plans, that is to say that they wanted to make this saving on the SFU rate, which means that they are making the direct saving. When the rapporteur speaks of courage in making certain priorities and making some choices, I have to ask: have you read the answers to the hearings and make the impression that, for example, The employers' association of the financial sector says that this is a short-term saving which will backfire in the longer term? And have you heard all those who talk about production Denmark and productivity in this country? Is that something that makes an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195354	When I get up, it's because time has passed, because I don't want to disturb people by saying they have to stop. But I hope you will respect that. It took a really long time this time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195405	Thank you. I am always impressed when I read a hearing answer, but I must also say that sometimes decisions may be necessary, even if they may be difficult decisions. So I am clearly impressed as rapporteur on the Left when I read these hearings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195428	Thank you. The last brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195433	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this financial law includes, among other things: was 600 million. kr. tax relief for large family-owned companies compared to the inheritance tax, and tax relief for billions of dollars was included in the Finance Act. That's the one I'd like to ask you about. When we talk about prioritising the money, I think we have to say: okay, that's what the government has chosen to spend money on. I'd much rather spend the money on continuing education. The next question I would like to ask is whether the rapporteur can confirm that this is reducing it from 80%. 60%. It will apply only to higher education. Can the rapporteur guarantee that it will not be reduced from 80%? 60%. in any of the other continuing training possibilities within the SFU? I am simply asking because I am not actually fully aware of it. I thought it was in the draft budget that some of the others would also be pursued. So I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to explain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195545	I can say that the Finance Act contains a great many different things. It contains, as probably also Enhedslisten's rapporteur knows, among other things. priorities in different directions, including priorities in relation to spending more money on health care. I know that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, in particular, insists on tax incentives, but we must remember why it is that priority should be given, as we do, to a debate on financial legislation. I have to say that I am quite sure that the parties who have been sitting at the table during these financial negotiations have been fully aware of the priorities chosen. And yes, I have had confidence in that and therefore also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195635	I think that priority is fucking unsolidarian. However, what I really wanted to hear was whether the rapporteur can guarantee that by reducing the percentage from 80% to 60%. Does it apply only to higher education, or will it also affect continuing training for skilled and unskilled workers? I would very much like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195701	At any rate, I can say that it will hit them with higher education. Choosing to go in and lower it from 80%. 60%. is going to affect higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195714	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317195735	In the Enhedslisten, we are voting against this bill because we simply do not believe that it is in any way sensible to prevent or reduce the possibility of using the State's adult education support to further education. It is very good that people have the opportunity to retrain. This is true, for example. In concrete terms, here are people in the vocational academies who need to be able to maintain and develop their competences. The labour market is changing insanely quickly right now, and that means, of course, that employees must also be able to keep up. So this proposal will actually prevent a construction technician, a laboratory engineer, an installer or an environmental technologist simply from being given the opportunity to further train with the SFU support, and that means that, for example, The power installer does not have the same opportunity to move forward and become skilled in energy technology or information technology, things that we need so much in our society. So I think this is very, very unfortunate. I have to admit that I am simply a little unsure of something that I do not think we received a very clear answer from the rapporteur on earlier, but I will ask the Minister about that. At the same time, there is also the risk that you will reduce the possibility that even further down the system you can only get a lower rate of 60%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter, and whether he is aware of the fact that it is not possible for the Commission to take a decision on this matter. But we must discuss this further in the legislative work. In the hearings we can see that there is a very massive opposition to this proposal. Several of the organizations predict that fewer people will be able to retrain. For example, the ITA's engineering association. It says that this goes against the very rapid technological development that is under way, that there is a very, very strong need for skills development in the technical and scientific fields. This really is something that can be set in motion for ourselves in the future. Danish Business Academys point out that the reduction of the SFU rate will increase the barrier to how many people will take further training, and the Professionshøjskoles also point out that this is likely to cause fewer public employers to provide their employees with further training. This will basically reduce the quality of our welfare and the quality of our welfare education. The National Association of Municipalities also says that in the future they will not be able to offer employee continuing training as much as they will be able to do once this comes into force. I simply think it is so sad to see how we are being practically targeted in order to prevent people from taking up further training and improving their skills. It is really incredibly unsolidarous, and I also think it is very worrying for the development of our common society if we continue to undermine the foundations of what we must live on in the future, namely a skilled, well-trained workforce, and I think it should also call, even in the Left, a reflection that then there will probably not even be any money for tax cuts in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200116	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200134	When the tooth of time has gnawed everything it has been in contact with, broken, when indifferent people have replaced the straw roof with eternit and made a living room on a house from the 1500s, then the time has come for restoration. And restoration is what this bill is all about. The State's adult education aid was introduced in 2001. The idea was that people who had little or no education could use the scheme to train themselves. But then, as is often the case, people who, strictly speaking, do not need public help have seen an opportunity to further train themselves through the State's adult training aid and to have others take the bill. In this sense, it can be said that there has been a conquest of the scheme in which new people move in and pressure those who originally benefited from the SFU scheme. Because of the relatively well-educated conquest of the SFU scheme, it became much more expensive than originally envisaged, and now the scheme is being restored so that it is restored to its original 2001 appearance. Some will, of course, weep that they must spare their not so lucky additions. In the Liberal Alliance, we are pleased that there is a restoration, so the scheme will look like its original self. That is why we support L 127.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200310	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200316	It's for this a little lyrical introduction, as Mr. Henrik Dahl started with, where it is mentioned, that the purpose was actually to help those people who have virtually no education I don't remember the exact wording, but it was something like that. Is Mr. Henrik Dahl realizes that we still have people in our society who have virtually no education and who can benefit from using this scheme? It has been said several times that it is the well-educated who use it. I'm here with a website called www.bygovenpaa.dk. It shows how, for example. For example, blacksmiths can be trained further, and it says, for example::Trained employees, building on their letter of return, bring new knowledge back to the company. They are more committed, more flexible and can be part of more and more complex processes... The result can be seen on the bottom line. So it's SFU we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200423	I said in my rapporteur's speech that the scheme was aimed at people who had little or no education, and I do not regard skilled people as people who have suffered or have no education at all. They have a quite full and long education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200441	But can I not know what the rapporteur means by well-educated people? I assumed that the rapporteur meant a long higher education, but perhaps that was not what the rapporteur meant. In any case, this also affects skilled workers. People with a shorter education suffer as well as those on this website can contribute to our society by further training. So what is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200519	I'm not so snobbish that I only consider academics to be well-educated. I also regard skilled people as well-educated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200528	The next brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200533	I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the real problem in ensuring that people have the opportunity to stay up to date, for example? Technological developments and continuing to train themselves in their working lives so that they can keep up with the rapid development that our society is going to have to undergo? Why do the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party want to stick a stick in the wheel on a really good tool to ensure that development?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200612	We do so for the most trivial reason that the kingdom lacks money. There's not enough money for everything. Well, we're gonna have to draw a line somewhere, and we're gonna do that with this bill. One of the things that has the highest rate of return at all is to invest in itself by taking an education, so perhaps you could consider putting some money into it yourself, because that is the safe way to raise wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200640	Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur thinks is of the greatest benefit to us overall as a society: that we have a workforce that is constantly being trained and skilled and can lift us all, or that we have more people who have the opportunity to buy a fucking expensive car for less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200659	Some politicians on the left have the feeling that all of Denmark's economic problems could be solved by rolling back the reduction in registration tax. But it only costs the Treasury approx. 200 million kr., and what can you get for 200 million? kr.? That's what this is about. So it doesn't really change much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200721	The next brief remark is from Mrs Skovsby from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200726	Thank you. After all, we did not really get an answer as to whether it is only well-educated who use this scheme. I certainly do not think so. But let me ask in another way: does the rapporteur, and does the Liberal Alliance think that it is in the interests of the economy, for the benefit of productivity in this country whose skilled people are retrained?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200756	It is in isolation, but the task of all politicians, including the questioner, is to make balances for reasons which are both legitimate and valid in themselves. It is also very damaging for the nation to have completely paralyzing high taxes or to have completely destructive sovereign debt, so we must find a balance between allowing some groups to further train themselves and to avoid other things, such as the sovereign debt, for example. or a very destructive tax burden has harmful effects. So you never get out of these balances, and the questioner will never get out of them either. That is the nature of the policy, and we can then have a good discussion about it. But the fact that something rational is right and sensible is not enough to make it happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200858	I think that in the Social Democratic Party we have found the right balance for what is a good economic policy and how we as a society can benefit from the further training of both skilled and unskilled people. This leads me to ask: does the rapporteur fear that productivity can be damaged here, that it can backfire, just as it says in the consultation answers that I suppose the rapporteur has read? So, is it feared that this could damage growth in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317200939	You always have to listen to self-esteem because it comes from the heart. I do not know whether it will actually harm productivity, but I believe that what we are doing in the hearings is, of course, taking advantage of the right to promote a very, very gloomy picture. But that is a very modest adjustment, so I doubt that it will be possible to read it here in productivity statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201001	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201006	I would like a little curiosity to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party would ever vote in favour of a proposal which makes it more difficult to operate in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201019	It cannot be ruled out that we are going to make some mistake which has the effect described, but it is certainly not something we would do with our eyes open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201031	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201032	That is exactly what is happening now, and that is why it is very good that we can change the mistake. If you read the consultation answers, you can see that the financial sector's employers' association writes that the proposal directly contradicts the government's own ambition that it should be easier to operate in Denmark, because this will affect the development of skills in the knowledge-intensive part of the labour market. They call it a short-term saving that will backfire in the long term. It must be a mistake for the Liberal Alliance to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201103	This then presupposes that the financial sector does not talk for its sick aunt or the like, and that cannot be completely ruled out, because you can then have a larger share where the sector itself has to pay. So, yeah, I'll take it relatively calmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201122	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201133	Thank you. This bill is about cutting access to state adult education support. We are not at all in favour of this in the alternative. We believe that education is a long-term and sustainable investment in society. If we cut back on education or on support for training, for example. companies' ability to update their workforce, then we cut down on the rest of the welfare, as education is a primary source of our welfare. There are also a large number of worried consultation responses that follow this proposal. Mostly I am sensitive to Danish Industry's hearing answer, as the Danish Industry's hearing answer, at least those I have seen for the time being, is usually clinically cleansed of things that criticize the government's proposals. This is not done directly here either, but we are talking about initiatives to mitigate the expected fall in activity, i.e. a fall in relation to adult education. And that is what the alternative is asking: What are we going to do with a fall in activity in our education? The latest report in the field of research established how growth and knowledge are a couple of things that we must support. So we predict that this proposal will go beyond the restructuring and competitiveness of Danish industry. In the alternative, we will not be voting in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201251	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201302	Thank you. The proposal here is to reduce the cost of State adult education support, SFU. The proposal envisages that the SFU will be targeted at those who have not taken a higher education course and who have thus suffered or have no education. The proposal provides for a reduction in higher education rates from 80%. of the maximum amount of the daily allowance to 60%. This is a fairly significant and significant reduction which will undoubtedly be felt by those concerned. The Radical Left is against the proposal. We do not think it is wise to cut government support for adult education. Continuing training is for us to see an essential and essential part of upgrading the workforce so that the workforce can meet the demands of the labour market in the best possible way. With the targeting in 2014 of precisely the SFU, which led to a marked reduction in the number of SFU grants for higher education, we do not believe that savings are now needed again in this area. On the whole, we believe that the austerity approach taken by the government in relation to education and research is very regrettable. We do not believe that in the short or long term it is wise to save on what Denmark should live on in the future. This also applies to adult education. Thus, the Radical Left cannot support this bill to reduce the cost of State adult education support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201424	Thank you, sir. Emrah Tuncer from the Radical Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201434	Thank you. In the SF, we're not going to back this proposal, but we kind of think it's okay for the government to be honest about its priorities. Continuing training is downgraded in order to be able to afford something else, and that is a right of a government. We just think it's a bad priority. We may also be concerned about whether the proposal will work as intended, i.e. whether we will actually save money on this project, because the draft law is above all an indication that people in higher education do not need more education than basic education. I just disagree with that, because society is evolving continuously, and even if you are educating, you will need to train yourself on an ongoing basis. In addition, I also believe that action is important in order for those who have a shorter education in Denmark to be able to train themselves. We will need specialised and highly trained labour if we are to compete with the outside world. So I think, in fact, that money would have been recovered many times by investing it in continuing training. It's actually my idea of the way we compete with the outside world. Several consultation responses indicate that there are quite clear consequences of this bill, and the main consequence is that fewer people will be retrained. I think that's too bad. KL writes that the proposal will mean more municipal extra costs, which in the end will also mean that fewer people will be retrained. After all, it is municipal extra costs at a time when you are already under a lot of pressure in the municipalities. And as I was told to Mr. Henrik Dahl, himself writes the employers' association of the financial sector, that this is a definite short-term saving that will make it harder to operate in Denmark. Although I am a little selective about listening to the financial sector in Denmark, I could not help but be a little interested in this, because I actually agree entirely. I believe that money invested in training the Danish workforce comes back many times, and that is SF's guide in the work we do here in the Folketing. It is fair enough that we are making an economic priority on the part of the government, but I see it as a very, very short-term way of looking at how we are getting money for this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201658	There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Jacob Mark. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201710	The State's adult education support, the SFU, was established in 2001 for people on the labour market who had no or very little training, and it allowed them to continue continuing training during working hours. The intention of the scheme was precisely to give those with the least training in the labour market better opportunities for upgrading and development of skills, but the scheme was used by many others and by far more well-educated than was originally intended. The scheme was therefore reduced in 2014 when SFU was targeted at citizens who had at most completed higher education at professional academy level. And with the debate we have had in this Chamber today, I think we should just start by stating that the legislative proposal that was then actually adopted back in 2014 was a saving proposal that was put forward in the context of a financial law agreement, and it was precisely intended to produce a few million kroner that could be used elsewhere. The bill we are discussing today is, in fact, a continuation of the thoughts of 2014 to target the SFU to those with the least education, while the scheme tightens for the more well-educated. For although the business in 2014 led to a decrease in the number of SFU allocations, the SFU for higher education continues to constitute the majority of the applications. Thus the money is not spent on those who have the greatest and the most urgent need. At the same time, the rate of training aid is reduced from 80%. 60%. of the highest amount of unemployment benefit in higher education. Today it is the case that the SFU is provided as a partial compensation for the loss of income of the SFU citizen by participating in training during his working hours. Moreover, there are a great many of the companies that have citizens on the SFU who are paying labour costs. The Conservative People's Party considers it important that the system be used in the way it is intended in this way. That is why we support the fact that in future, people who have completed higher education will not be able to receive SFU for higher education regardless of the level. And we are also in favour of a larger own-payment. We think that greater personal responsibility for financing is fine. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201909	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317201914	First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify something. When we talk about targeting, there is no question of adding more resources to those who are unskilled or skilled and have to go on. I guess you really just remove resources from continuing training, or you remove the possibility that more people will be able to get further training. It is not the case that these resources are being transferred to the area, is it? That is one question. The second question is: does the rapporteur believe that in the long term it is beneficial for Danish society that people do not have the opportunity to be retrained? It can, for example, be done. be electrical installers who cannot build on their professional academy education, etc. Is it appropriate for Danish society that we do not have that competence development?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202007	I would like to agree so far that when you use the word targeting in such a context here, you might as well have written saving, because that is what is meant. But I'd be happy to be the target of that. For me it is important to stress that the scheme was intended for them with very little or no training, while the scheme has been used by those who have a lot of training in advance. That is also why we saw a social democratic government that went in and edited, adjusted the scheme back in 2014, so that a cut was made at the Business Academy and that level, so that attempts were made to prevent those who are already well-educated from getting even more education. I see this as an extension of what the Socialists did back in 2014. Is that a saving? Yes, it is. Is the money being spent on something else? Yes, they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202103	I would just like to ask a little more about the logic behind, as the rapporteur says, simply to prevent people in professional academy training from being able to retrain themselves. It can, for example, be done. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound level of motor vehicles and their trailers has not been accepted by the Council. Why do you have to work against it? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202128	That is precisely what we need to do, because we need to look at what the scheme is aimed at. It is addressed to citizens who have very little or no education. If you have an education at professional academy level, then you do not smoke in the category very little or no education. Then you actually have a really good education with you in advance. This has, of course, been a good opportunity for those who already had a good education to train themselves and become even better. But when the scheme is intended for them with very little or no education, we think it is important that it also stays within that track. That is why it is being targeted today, so that in future we will still be able to give priority to those who have very little or no education and so that those who are actually well-educated cannot get the scheme on the same terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202220	The next brief remark is from Mrs Skovsby from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202224	Thank you. I have to oppose this because you can just see it as an extension of what happened in 2014 and the adjustments we made back then. What was the situation then, and what was the reason why we made the adjustment and acted accordingly, was that we could see that the scheme was used by more and others than it was originally intended. About half of the SFU at higher level was paid out to people who already had higher education. Mrs Mai Mercado, when she says as she does, must know how many of the people who are currently using the SFU who already have higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202313	It is in the draft law, but I simply do not remember what the figure is at present. However, I can say so much that some of what I noticed in Mrs Skovsby's speech was that it was very important for her to emphasise that it was then a broad circle that endorsed the bill. Could it be considered that this was actually linked to the fact that there was a responsible opposition at the time, who wanted to go in and take responsibility, and who thought it was okay for them to be targeted? Maybe you could. It's a little rhetorical from up here. As far as I am concerned, this is entirely in line with the legislative action taken under the Finance Act in 2014. After all, it was not an agreement in the field of the VEU or an agreement in the field of employment. It was a financial law agreement aimed at making savings that could be used elsewhere. In fact, I believe that Mrs Julie Skovsby will be able to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202413	I do not see it in the draft law, but let us ask about it, because that is an important argument as to why Conservatives support this. What I see in the comments on the bill is: • An inventory of the total number of applications received in the first half of 2015 shows that the application for SFU for higher education is approx. 67 per cent. of all applications. But that does not tell us how many people already have higher education. It doesn't tell us how many skilled people, for example, and how many with a short higher education there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202506	In fact, I am very excited about a question which I cannot answer, after which the rapporteur answers for me and then answers what I would like the rapporteur to answer. It's rare to have it served so perfectly. It is true that it says on page 3: "Even though the target direction from 2014 has led to a large decrease in the number of SFU grants for higher education, SFU for higher education continues to represent the majority of the total number of applications for SFU. I guess that's more than 50 percent. Whatever it is, I shouldn't be able to say. I'm sure the Minister can answer that when she gets up here. But that confirms me exactly as I said in my rapporteur's speech that it is the well-educated who are using this scheme. It is not those with very little or no education who apply this scheme, and that is why I think it is quite fine to see that this scheme, which is targeted at those with very little education, is being used by some very well-educated people, that you go in and make a saving. I still see it as being entirely in line with the policy of the Social Democrats from 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202612	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202616	Thank you. I just wanted to hear something. Now we have heard several attempts to explain the common sense of this proposal. Among other things: the word has been specifically mentioned many times by several different rapporteurs. It has been mentioned here with very little education. I was indirectly shot in the shoes earlier by the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance that I am a little bit educational, I think, which is a serious misunderstanding if that is how the rapporteur perceived it. Why don't Conservatives, DF, Left and LA just admit that this is a saving exercise that's about getting money for something other than education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202700	I admit that, too. I have just said that this will be included in the Finance Act, just as it came in a Finance Act in 2014. It does not come from the VEU area of the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Employment. This is gonna come exactly in a financial agreement. When the rapporteur uses the term 'target' today, I do not think we should put anything else in it, except that it is the subtitle of the draft law that is referred to, because the subtitle is: "Gimulation of the target group and reduction of the rate of SVT for higher education'.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202733	This means that we can agree that the word targeting may not be the most precise expression in this context and that we could have saved a great deal of time if the parties had just said that this is a saving exercise where we have to find some money that does not go to education. Then we would have been free to hear all these attempts to argue why a skilled person should not take an education. Then we'd just been told we'd have to get some money for something that doesn't have to do with education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202808	Now I have not put a lot of questions to the House here tonight. So I think it is the left that accounts for a lot of questions. In fact, I think it is both. It is a saving in the draft budget which is being used to provide funding for something else just like in 2014. But at the same time, it's a targeting of this scheme. It is a scheme that targets them with no or very little education. Then there have been some who have been well-educated, who have also used it. It is now being cut so that it is still those who have very little or no education that can use them. But the well-educated people who have been able to use this scheme in the past can no longer do so. So in my world, it's kind of both. But if that means that the Socialists and the others think the debate has been superfluous, then I would say that I do not think the debate has been superfluous. In fact, I think it has been very good to discuss this relationship, partly with the draft law in 2014, and partly with the legislative proposal that is now coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202903	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. And then we've come to the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317202915	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the debate this evening on L 127. The possibility of receiving State adult training aid, the SFU, was introduced back in 2001 as part of a major reform of the field of continuing training. The aim was then, as now, primarily to support in-service training for people on the labour market with no or short training. It was also provided that continuing training should, as a starting point, be organized on a part-time basis, thus providing good opportunities for combining training and employment. Over the years, however, it has been found that the scheme has been used to a much greater extent than was originally intended to support higher education organised as full-time education. Although the conditions of SFU for higher education have been tightened up in several stages, we note that most of the SFU support continues to be paid to persons participating in full-time higher education. As a follow-up to the 2016 Finance Act agreement, the Government is therefore proposing with this bill a further targeting of the SFU scheme. The draft law means that those who have already completed higher education can no longer receive SVT in connection with participation in continuing training. However, the Government wishes to continue to support the further training of skilled workers, but now at a level where the individual participant or employer has a greater responsibility for financing. The Government therefore proposes that the SFU rate for higher education should be reduced from 80%. 60%. of the maximum amount of the daily allowance. The reduction in rates should be seen in the context of SFU being given to people in employment and typically to training courses of relatively limited duration. We therefore retain the SFU scheme as it is for the unskilled worker who needs to improve basic skills, for example. by participating in preparatory adult education. In this way, better conditions can be achieved to maintain belonging to a labour market where the basic and basic skills are increasingly required. The consultation process has indicated that social development and rapid technological development mean that employees with higher education need to maintain and develop their skills as much as those with short training. I would like to say that, despite the necessary financial constraints, I firmly believe that we still have very good opportunities to carry out continuing training in Denmark. The proposal does not change the publicly supported provision of continuing training, and I expect employers and employees to continue to see the advantage of investing in the necessary skills development, even if the public funds are targeted. I look forward to the referral to committee of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203233	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Julie Skovsby from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203238	Thank you. At the request of my debate with the Conservative rapporteur, I would like to hear from the Minister how many people are receiving SFU support today, who already have higher education. So how many people already have a higher education of those who are receiving SFU support today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203312	In fact, I think that the Conservative rapporteur answered the question very well, and my reference is also the comments on the draft law. However, if Mrs Julie Skovsby needs further deciphering what is stated in the comments, I must refer it to the committee procedure, as I am not in a position to answer the question put by Mrs Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203340	It is, in fact, a very simple question. For the situation it was, of course, up to 2014, when the adjustment was made that about half of the SFU at higher level was paid to people who already had higher education. That is why we made an adjustment. Then it is said that everything is now just a continuation of it. Then I ask how many of those who get SFU at higher level already have a short higher education today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203426	And then I reply exactly as the Conservative rapporteur replied, with reference to page 3 of the comments, left column, which shows that a statement of the total number of applications received in the first half of 2015, i.e. Last year, shows that applications for SFU for higher education are approx. 67 per cent. of all applications. How many of these are numerical, I am simply unable to pass it on to the questioner, but I hope the questioner understands that since it is a very detailed question, it can be answered during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203505	A brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203507	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is good for us as a society here that I am thinking, both economically, technologically and in terms of knowledge, of preventing more people from getting further training?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203521	I have to stress that I strongly disagree with Mrs Flyvholm and the Enhedslisten that this bill prevents anyone from having further training that they have the opportunity to have today. We are changing the conditions, but it is not the case that continuing training is not possible. What is at stake is that if you are skilled and take part in continuing vocational training with SVT as a substitute, it happens that 80 per cent of the total is spent on continuing vocational training. of the participants is the employer who receives the SFU as compensation for the salary which, of course, continues to be paid to the employee, who is then just not in the workplace but is participating in continuing training.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203615	It is precisely for this reason that there are also more employers and also public employers who point out that this will mean that they will provide training opportunities for much fewer people. That is quite clear from the hearings, and I think the Minister must deal with that. I also think that the Minister should deal with what should be said about the laboratory, for example. risk losing her job because she does not have the opportunity to be up to date and keep up with her field. That is what is going to be the consequence of cutting back on continuing training, and I find that deeply worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203645	I am quite convinced, and actually am of the opinion, that by far, the vast majority of employers who are fond of their employees and their employees are typically the most important resource they have in the workplace are also prepared to give and contribute to the investment that this requires in order to update the competences. So I am actually convinced that employers will take part in this. All other things being equal, they would otherwise have to go out and find completely new employees, and I do not believe that responsible employers would actually throw themselves or companies into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203726	Thank you very much to the authors, rapporteurs and ministers. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203744	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317203807	Thank you. You may not think so immediately, but Denmark is actually an aerospace nation. Denmark's first space activity was in 1962 with the launch of a probe rocket from Nordnorge. Although it is now many decades since we first conquered space, we have still only reached a small step in exploring and exploiting the opportunities that exist here. The aerospace industry today constitutes a niche market in the Danish context, but in the future it constitutes a market with a very large business potential. For example, space is an important source of data within e.g. telecommunications, navigation, mapping and weather data. Satellite systems, including the US GPS program, are based on about 100 satellites launched by the EU, the United States, Russia and China, but in the future communications programmes will consist of 700-900 satellites. In the future, satellites will become the property of every man, and it is clear that in that perspective we cannot continue with outer space being unregulated. In the long run, there is no doubt that our use of space technology in space will increase, and therefore there is a need to provide a clear regulatory framework. There is a need for Danish law on activities in outer space. If companies are to be encouraged to invest in space technology, they must build on a secure legal basis. It is no use that outer space is the Wild West, where we have no guidelines in relation to, for example, collisions and other damage. Space travel is a sector that extends widely into Danish society and has great potential for our industry and our research. It is therefore an historic event that we are witnessing here today. This is an important legislative proposal that we are discussing today. This is the day when we recognise Denmark as a space nation and where we take the first step towards a future in which we will take space technology completely for granted with all the benefits it brings. There is good reason to support the potential of the aerospace industry and we believe that the time has come for concrete initiatives to be taken in this direction. Here and now, the prize is to be seen. It is worth setting the right framework for research and technology. For every crown that Denmark spends on membership of the European Space Agency ESA, we get the money five times again directly in terms of orders and jobs, and the commercial returns can be significantly increased. There are many thousands of jobs and great export opportunities waiting. The bill is an important step in that direction. In addition, there is considerable potential in terms of knowledge and competences, not least in the fields of science, science and health and for the competences of engineers in the fields of health science, telecommunications, data management and environmental and climatic conditions. The previous minister, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen, made a great effort to highlight the great potential of space exploration because there are many positive derived effects, a huge business potential, a burgeoning platform for innovation and the ability to solve important societal tasks. The Socialists are very much in agreement with that assessment. I have also noted that the previous Minister for Education and Research put space research and space technology incredibly high. Among other things, there were: allocated a special pool of 20 million. kr. to this end on the latest agreement on the research reserve. In this context, I think it is important to remember that the many positive derived effects of space technology and research are also present in all sorts of other areas, but, as you know, the government has unfortunately chosen to save 1.4 billion. kr. on the 2016 research. I mention this because it is my hope that the government will show the general research sector in the future the same enthusiasm as that shown for space research and space technology. Activities in outer space and space will play a very important role in the future in commercial and research contexts. The draft law is a framework law because the scope of future activities is not yet known. The bill is based on UN obligations and corresponds to the Danish aviation law and to other countries' regulations. It contains general guidelines for the approval of space activities, disclosure obligations, registration, compensation, insurance, supervision and punishment. The Social Democrats support this bill, L 128, which provides the basis for Danish activities in outer space to be carried out in the future in terms of security and environmental security.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317204333	Thank you, Mr President. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317204348	It's quite fascinating to be allowed to deal with this law. We are used to legislation changing existing laws. In fact, we have just dealt with three other legislative proposals in the field of research and higher education, all of which are amendments to existing legislation. And that, of course, is also important. But it's now nice sometimes literally to be allowed to fly a little higher, as we do with this space law, which is about outer space, including traveling up and down. As far as air travel is concerned, we have legislation on air transport covering the lower 10-15 km above the ground. Then we have a small space, and then we get into outer space, which in this legislation is defined as the area from 100 km up and out. As I said, it is a law that is about a new area. It is a law that has not been in any form in Denmark before. At the same time, it is a law that has been waiting for it for many years. It is based on four treaties from the 1960s and 1970s, which we concluded at the time, but which it has not until now been appropriate to transfer to regular legislation. It is about the 1967 Treaty on outer space, the 1968 Astronaut Agreement, the 1972 Liability Convention and the 1975 Registration Convention. It's all something that's almost from my primary school. That's exciting. The law itself is a framework law, because we do not really know exactly what it is that we have to take into account in the future and what the future holds. The key areas of the law are the registration and approval of space activities, and they are about insurance matters. Who is responsible when something is sent up and it hits into something else? Who is responsible when things hover around in outer space and hit each other? It's also exciting who's supposed to control it out there. It's about liability and registration of space objects, so we have an idea of what we've sent up and what's floating around. I think it will be quite exciting to follow the area and follow what steps will be taken. And since this is a new area we are moving into, I think it would be appropriate to plan for us to have a status and to have an evaluation of the area. The Danish People's Party will therefore encourage us to talk about how to ensure that we are informed, perhaps the first time the law becomes applicable, because this is the first time we have to go through the procedures and use them. That's why I'm thinking we're gonna have some kind of ongoing pick-up. In this context, I am also excited about the space strategy that has been announced, because it is, of course, the one that has to set out to exploit the potentials of this space law and take advantage of all the possibilities that it naturally offers to get in and out of space in all possible ways. In those words, I just want to say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317204651	Thanks to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317204659	Thank you for that, President. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 128, draft law on activities in outer space, I can tell you that the Left will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. In 2015, the Left Government set up a working group across several ministries to draw up a basis for new legislation throughout the space sector. This area has, of course, so far been completely unregulated here in Denmark. More and more Danish companies are looking to outer space, and therefore we also need to get legislation in place. In November the working group then came up with their recommendations and recommendations, which we have then looked through carefully, and we have then prepared this legal basis, which we are working on first reading this evening in the Parliamentary Chamber. I am very pleased with the result, because we have got the bill screwed up in a way that also makes it flexible for companies working with space activities, while at the same time establishing an appropriate framework for Danish companies operating in outer space. Andreas Mogensen became the first Dane in space, and I actually think we've all been really happy and proud of that. I can tell you that this pride I have felt in many places around the country. At the beginning of this month I actually visited one of the public schools in my constituency, where the students had been visited by Andreas Mogensen and where the students subsequently worked on building space rockets and performing space assignments based on the tasks that Andreas Mogensen had told them about. Not only has our nation successfully had its first astronaut in space, Danish companies have also shown their worth in space research. We have among other things. space companies such as Gomspace in Aalborg, which produce and export nanosatelites to a wide range of countries. Yes, Denmark certainly has something to offer in space. However, with Denmark's increased activities within the space world, legislation is needed, and this now follows with the bill here. We need legislation that clarifies matters, but at the same time is flexible. And to ensure that Denmark also meets its international obligations, the bill, which is now being implemented, must also be based on the UN agreements on various aspects of activities in outer space, and they must then be integrated into Danish law. In the 1960s and 1970s Denmark signed these UN treaties, which obliged us to make a space law if we were to become a space nation. We are now, and that is why we must now have this space law passed. The draft law is designed as a framework law, as the previous rapporteur also described, and we also recognise that we are faced with a whole new area which needs to be able to develop. I am very proud that I am the rapporteur for the Left on this bill, because it can be said that it is an historic law, a whole new law, and with these words, of course, I would like to stress once again that the Left is voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205055	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205107	Thank you very much. I'd say I've enjoyed reading this bill. It is very rare that you have the opportunity to clarify exactly what a space activity and a space object is. And now I also know that outer space starts 100 km above sea level. So it's definitely been interesting. Besides that, I don't want to say much. This proposal seems very sensible. It makes sense to regulate what you send into space; who will send things up; it is about ensuring that there is proper insurance, etc.; security must be in order when making various shipments; and you must clean up your space crap. And then this proposal is based on some UN conventions. So all in all, it is quite reasonable to regulate this area, and we can support that in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205214	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205229	When I was first introduced to L 128, I posted my immediate reaction to Twitter. It sounded something like this: I always thought that the universe consisted of two things, matter and antibody. With L 128 we can see that it consists of three things: matter, antibody and bureaucracy. But we humans have the right to become wiser. This is not something we always use, but I have done so. And this law is really sensible. outer space is a kind of international waters. That's how you have to understand it. It's just vertical instead of horizontal. Deepest and closest to Earth, we have territorial waters, and farther out is not really any sovereignty. Everyone can move in principle here, and therefore international rules are needed. When you send a spacecraft into the cosmos, you can't just pick a random frequency and say into the microphone: Ground control to Major Tom. There are rules for such things and they are enshrined in L 128, and they must be respected when the bill is adopted. Another problem is what the afterplay will be if a Danish satellite should go and collide with the Hubbletelescope. Then there will probably be a trial of some kind, and there will have to be rules for that. Who is responsible if a Danish satellite, once it has carried out its mission, is eventually drawn so far down to Earth that it roams the outer atmosphere and eventually crashes? For the reasons I have mentioned, it is a very good idea for Denmark to have a space law. But before I finally express our agreement to the Space Act, I would also like to say something about the long lines of Danish policy. The legislation which probably gets Parliament's blessing after what has been said is, of course, among other things. the implementation of a treaty which was ratified 49 years ago. Hardly anyone can remember that, but it was under the red cabinet where Jens Otto Krag was prime minister. This means that there are probably not many decision-makers from then on who are now looking forward to it. Instead, we can rejoice that we have a good and well-considered space law and once again the true wisdom of the expression that haste is cargo. That is why I am pleased to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposed space law. It is a small step for the Danish Parliament, but a huge step for Danish space research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205515	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henrik Dahl from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205519	I thought it was a really good ending. We've also talked a lot about this space law. I think it must be a bit ambiguous to be the Liberal Alliance today because, for example, if you look at the UN agreements being implemented, one of them is a collective astronaut agreement. It must be insanely difficult, like LAs, not to be in favour of opting for free organisation and freedom of organisation. I am absolutely convinced that they cannot have discussed this here in the group while Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was present, because then he had to insist that it was at least an individual agreement and not a collective one. So I just want to know if it was difficult to discuss it in the Liberal Group now when you go in and attack the last free bastion, namely space.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205620	There shouldn't be top taxes on Mars, even if it's called the red planet. There must be limits to how things are. We have a record ban from our group meetings, but the waves went high. But you can't get everything in politics. In fact, there should be performance rewards for astronauts, but we have chosen to accept our international commitments, as we do in many other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205648	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl on this landmark day. The next one is sir. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205703	Thank you very much. L 128 has the absolutely fantastic title: proposal for a law on activities in outer space. It is difficult not to love for an old science fiction geek to be allowed to take over such a bill from our education rapporteur who could not be here today. The bill implements four UN agreements on the regulation of space activities, and it is in itself positive that we now have these agreements incorporated into Danish legislation. We talked about it a little earlier, and as Mr. Henrik Dahl informed me that there was indeed a fifth UN agreement that is not being implemented with the bill here, which deals with colonization of the moon. That's what you might be wondering. It is also important that the law not only safeguards the present but also guarantees the future of the possibility of regulating legislation in a field which is so rapidly evolving. It is therefore positive that the Minister is also aware, after the consultations, that the space area is a global field and that cooperation with Asian and American actors is also being taken into account in relation to the standards to be applied to individual projects and that, as mentioned earlier, the law is designed as a framework law so that the provisions can be updated on an ongoing basis. The entire space industry is an exciting development area for Denmark, and it is important for the legislators to keep in close contact with the Danish training and research sites and companies to keep them up to date in terms of safety and at the same time create the flexibility that makes the Danish players not unduly restricted in relation to their international competitors. At the same time, we also welcome the fact that there is now a basis for regulating space waste and dealing with it, so that the expected major developments in the field do not forget the environmental concerns and the possible impact of space waste on it. It is also a very good perspective that we are now about to regulate at least the new space waste, which is already a problem, but whose scale we are not yet focusing on, namely the space waste that is constantly becoming more and more orbiting the Earth. It would be fantastic if, as a country, we were the prime engine in the further development of this type of space environment regulation. The alternative supports the proposal and I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur and say that they do. We hope that this is only the first step in a further Danish space adventure to Infinity and Beyond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205934	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Nikolai Amstrup, and it's from Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205939	I should like to ask what the alternative is for the colonization of the moon. Would it be acceptable to use conventional technologies here, or should the moon be colonised in an alternative way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317205959	As a starting point, I think that we should question whether we should repeat a colonial period and that we should be sure that we treat any residents who are already there properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210016	It will be a supplementary question without any direct connection to the first question: is it aware in the alternative that wind turbines operate very badly on the moon?
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210029	We are aware of this, but we hope that, in the light of the fifth UN regulation, new technologies can be developed that could be used instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210040	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Nikolai Amstrup. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210050	Thank you. I'm not gonna say much about this bill except SF backs it up. It's a bill that comes after a day when I've thought that there were a lot of laws that were completely on the moon. That is why, as a starting point, I was also a little careful just to give my support here. But when I read it, I actually think it looks reasonable. After all, the bill provides a framework for the Danish activities in outer space and that they take place on a regulated and safe basis. As explained, the draft law also aims to implement four UN agreements covering different aspects and activities in outer space. I have to admit, I'm not an expert in outer space. So I spent some time beating through the bill and reading hearing answers. We also had an excellent technical review of the Minister and Ministry. Overall, in the SF, it seems sensible to have a law in this area so that it is regulated and that it seems to be a well-worked legislative proposal that we would like to give our support to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210201	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210214	This is a very nerdy bill, and I do not know whether it is because it is very late, or it is because it is really so nerdy, but the draft rapporteurs have at least had a number of such hay-haw comments along the way, and I think that is very, very good. I guess it's just because they're some geeky research rapporteurs. To my knowledge, Denmark's first space activity in 1962 was the launch of the first Northern Norway probe rocket in a joint collaboration between Denmark and Norway. The first launch in 1962 was soon followed by others, and 1968 saw Denmark's first satellite instrument on Earth. After all, in 1968 an independent space research institute, DTU Space, was set up and the breakthrough, such as the huge breakthrough that I have at least read out, came in 1999 with the launch of the Ørsted satellite, which could actually match NASA's satellites. The Ørsted satellite seriously paved the way for Danish research and also led the Danish industry into the market for space equipment. So far, the sector has been characterised by a few and some exclusive players, who have had to provide both very high funding and also some technological opportunities, but now space travel is facing a paradigm shift caused by some new opportunities: decreasing costs of launching and greater use of automation, and also new materials with lower weight have meant that this small exclusive circle of operators in space has increased, if not each man's ownership, so at least something that other companies can also be involved in. It is important for Denmark and also for Danish companies, and Danish companies have some technological skills that are actually at the top of the world and are also able to fill some important niches for the space technology market. Let's take a company like Terma, who supplied the power supply to the space probe Rosetta. As you know, everyone knows that landed on a comet in August 2014 after a ten-year trip into space. After all, Terma also provides equipment for three new launches here in 2016-2017. With Denmark's growing commitment to outer space and a greater presence with both satellites and now also a Danish astronaut in space, it is also natural that we have legislation that can handle it here. This bill thus involves the implementation of four UN agreements, which are primarily about the approval and supervision of activities in outer space. It is the Treaty on outer space, the Astronaut Agreement, the Liability Convention and the Convention on Registration. The first UN agreement, like a framework for countries' actions in outer space, specifies that outer space must be of benefit to all, that it is not lawful to put nuclear weapons into circulation on Earth or other weapons of mass destruction, and that they should not be placed in outer space as an extended storage unit, one can read out. I think we can back that up, that sounds pretty excellent. As such, the Astronaut Agreement does not require a separate implementation, but obliges countries to help the astronauts, and the Liability Convention sets out the liability and insurance that Denmark has, so that an operator is obliged to replace damage caused by a space object to persons or aircraft in flight, and I think that most people can see that is a good idea. Then there is also the Convention on Registration, which, in fact, simply says that a country which sends up space objects must register them. So all in all, it is very good that Denmark, with an increasing Danish activity level, accedes to the four UN agreements, so that there will be a more precise basis for approving space activities, which have otherwise taken place in a rather ad hoc manner. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210609	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210616	I would like to thank you very much for a very good debate, which I actually think bears witness to Parliament's great interest in the bill. I would also like to thank you very much for what I listened to was a unanimous Parliament's support for the bill. As several speakers have said, this is also a very special legislative proposal, because it is a very special one, but also a special legislative proposal for the Folketing to deal with, as soon as it is a completely new law we are considering here. Overall, the idea of the draft law is to establish an appropriate framework for Danish activities in outer space to take place on a regulated and security-safe basis. Among other things, it has. have been sought after by the players who develop satellites. The aim of the bill, as has been mentioned several times, is also to implement into Danish law four UN agreements to which Denmark has acceded in the late 1960s and beyond. The agreements deal with various aspects of activities in outer space, including: an objective responsibility for Denmark for any damage caused by objects sent up into outer space from the Danish territory. In line with increasing activities in this area, it is essential that we now establish a regulatory structure and the necessary legislation to deal with activities and obligations under international agreements. Against this background, the draft law contains, inter alia: conditions for the approval of space activities, rules on the registration of space objects, compensation and insurance, transfer of space objects and space activities, supervision and punishment. The law, as has also been pointed out, is a framework law. It follows the way it has been done in several other countries, with which we can compare ourselves, among others. Netherlands, Austria and Belgium. The law lays down the basic framework for the exercise of space activities. The more specific requirements and procedures for completing the framework shall be laid down by means of a notice. The Danish requirements will be drawn up at the same level as similar requirements in other countries. Just to stress it, the bill initially regulates only activities in heights above 100 km above the ground. Subsequently, we have to look at whether to some extent the law should also include lower-level activities. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl referred to the gap. But maybe we'll get back to it. I look forward to the committee reading of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210931	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160317210949	Then all that remains is to thank everyone for a very long and persistent day in the service of the people's regime. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 18 March 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
