ParlaMint-DK_20161206130034	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen): Bill no. L 96 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on a Guarantee Fund for Non-life Insurance Companies. Karin Nødgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 28 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the stopping of immediate divorces). Eva Flyvholm (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on freedom of expression for researchers and the free publication of analyses and reports). Peder Hvelplund (EL) and others: Question No. F 14 (The Government is asked to explain the consequences of the requirement of productivity, which requires public hospitals to deliver 2% annually. more services, including impact on quality, patient safety and health and safety at work). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Joachim B. Olsen, for the remainder of the current term of office, instead of Ole Birk Olesen, who has been appointed Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130140	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130202	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 15 by Zenia Stampe (RV), Trine Bramsen (S), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 29 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 15 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 16 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and no. V 17 by Søren Søndergaard (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130323	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130346	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130413	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130435	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130508	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130517	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 32 (S). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130544	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130600	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130627	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130644	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130710	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130731	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130754	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130811	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 101 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130837	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130855	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 61 (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF), against 46 (S, EL, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130924	Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206130950	Thank you. We are a number of parties which have tabled an amendment on 11 November to change significantly in L 22. Now we can see with satisfaction that the Minister has tabled exactly the same amendment. Perhaps no one outside Christiansborg can see the logic of that, but we do know how it works. The most important thing is that it doesn't happen. A majority of the parliament now ensures that the tenant cannot be removed from the possibility of overstepping the time limit on business lease agreements. It has a very specific meaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131029	Even if you walk out of the Chamber, you can remain calm when there is a rapporteur on the floor. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131035	Thank you, President. This has a very specific meaning, because if this amendment had not been adopted, the rent for small retail shops, hairdressers, small craft enterprises, etc. would have been paid. just be given free with the consequences that the rent could rise, that you could be put up in rent. In the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, we have had deputies of a great many organisations, Danish Business, etc. who have said that it is a disaster for small businesses. It is strange that the government says that it cares about business conditions if it wants to set everything free in this way, so small traders, hairdressers and so on. They simply cannot know whether they can remain in the commercial leases they have. So it is actually just to thank a number of parties for being able to make an amendment together so that this does not happen. It also shows that the Folketing can make some agreements, even if you have a government that has a parliamentary support party. Thank you. I think it's a really good day because this part of the bill isn't gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131157	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131213	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131239	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131300	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131329	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131400	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131429	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131456	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131522	The bill we are now discussing is about the desire of the Home Rule Government of Greenland to make a telephone call in future when it comes to declaring that a person in Greenland is to appear in court. We have had this in Denmark for many years, and it is now also being introduced in Greenland, and it is because it can be difficult to believe that the post up there can always be reliable. So there is a reason why you now want to use other methods. There have been a number of delayed hearings, and there has been a great need to make new preaching work, so that part of it is very good. Another part of the bill is that you should be able to apply pepper spray to the hospitals in Greenland. It's a wish that comes from the court. There is then a concern on the part of the Home Rule Government of Greenland about the introduction of pepper spray. Now, of course, we have to look after our employees and make sure that they are not harmed when they are at work, but I still think I need the Minister to unfold it about the use of pepper spray. We do it in Denmark. We do so under certain conditions. We do it with trained staff, and we do it also when other options are not useful, and at least that is what is fundamental when using pepper spray in Greenland. We must remember that there is another culture and another background in Greenland, also in relation to penalties, where we can say that the rehabilitation and the return to the place from which you come and act as a good person plays a really, really important role there. That is why I understand that, in the Home Rule Government of Greenland, they have some concern as to whether the introduction of pepper spray will bring about the rather important balance that exists. But I'll wait and see what the Attorney General's answer is. Then there is a third part that deals with restraining orders and expulsions, and there are also other conditions in Greenland than those we know here from Denmark, in the sense that if a man is violent towards his wife or his ex-wife and gets a restraining order, then it may well be in a village where there are perhaps only 100 houses, and that therefore you go up and down each other, even if you feel really bad about each other. And it is also up to you to demand that one party move from one village to another in order to have a normal life. So there are some things that need to be addressed in terms of local conditions, because geography also plays a major role in Greenland. So all in all, we're gonna back this up. I just need the Minister of Justice to unfold it with regard to the pepper spray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131914	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206131923	The Danish People's Party can also support this bill. Precisely from the point of view that getting to people when there are long distances, bad weather etc. can be done much, much easier when you have to have contact with those who are now going to preach. All other things being equal, I think this will make it much more flexible, including in Greenland, and when you ask for it to be introduced, we will of course do so. In relation to the use of pepper spray, I would like to say that this must of course be done on as small a scale as possible. But, of course, there may be situations where this is also necessary. I cannot help noticing that it says that it is the Ministry of Justice's expectation that the use of pepper spray in Greenland's establishments will have the same preventive effect. Yeah, I think the Justice Department is right about that. I do not think there is any difference between spraying pepper spray in Danish eyes or Greenlandic eyes. That's very sharp. In any case, we can easily back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132038	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132046	Thank you. I shall be brief on behalf of the Left. After all, the Social Democrat rapporteur has finely summarized what this is all about, in other words, that we are introducing a number of amendments to Greenland's law on criminal and judicial matters. The changes should make the rules more flexible and up-to-date, and these are, as I said, both telepreaching and new means of power. In relation to the use of pepper spray, it is worth noting that these changes include: is based on positive experience from Denmark as well as on recommendations from the Council for Greenland's judicial system. In addition, the changes in the rules are, after all, similar to those that we introduced in Denmark in 2012, which the Left also supported. In short, we think the changes are sensible and the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132135	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132155	Thank you. After all, these are two system-safe legislative proposals, namely where the system against the inmate or suspect can be effective. After all, the first suggestion about the preaching work is twofold, because the distances are so great, and a appearance in a courtroom is not always about going to the town square, and then you are there. It is quite a long way to go, both if you are a witness or accused, but also for the staff who will be there, judges etc., and if the Greenlanders think that this is something that can help them in that area, then I have nothing against it. The second proposal is about pepper spray, etc., where there are some comments from the Greenlanders, which we have to say the Minister has to explain what is at stake, and the Minister must try to agree with the Greenlanders on how this will work. It must be on their terms that we make legislative changes when it comes to things like these. And also with regard to restraining orders, expulsions and residence bans. So I would say to the Minister: please agree with the Greenlanders before we make this law. I have seen that the proportionality and gentleness principle must, of course, apply when using pepper sprays and shields against the inmates. However, I do not have the feeling that it is a very large number of people, and that is why I think it might seem quite exaggerated enough that in Greenland too the kind of technical aids that officers can use to the inmates should be used. It is also important to note that here again, we should say, we have initiated legislation before the Greenlanders have completed their examination of the matter. When we started this bill, we hadn't gotten the papers from Greenland yet, and I would like to ask the new government to take it seriously when we have jointly decided that there must be a clear order of law when it comes to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And it is that the Faroe Islands and Greenland's parliaments deal with these matters before we start dealing with them. I think it is a bad thing that we just have such nice words on solemn occasions when we say that we will do so. But often, very often, the opposite happens, and then you use the excuse that you say, well, the Greenlandic parliament or the government has said that it is okay that we start. I think we should stick to the principle that is justified by quite reasonable things, so that in this case it is precisely the Greenlanders who have the right to deal with these things in the first place, and then we follow up afterwards. Otherwise it will be something like this to say: 'Ah, but we are just doing that in administrative terms, and we must expect them to follow what we are doing. I do not think that is right and I would ask the new government to lay down that principle, both in theory and in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132508	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Carsten Bach, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132517	First of all, Mr President, I would like to continue on that track. Christian Juhl started out from the platform and welcomed the postponement of the draft law, both because I have actually been given the opportunity to take part in the first reading here, but also because there has been an opportunity for Greenland's self-government to deal with the matter first. Well, that's usually what Mr. Christian Juhl also pointed out that pre-treatment in the Parliamentary Chamber was a fine practice. The draft law, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, has three different elements: firstly, the introduction of the possibility of telephone evangelization and SMS reminder of procedural communications to citizens in civil and criminal matters. And all the consultation answers, as I read, are positive. There are good experiences from Denmark with something similar. It can make the system more efficient, and that is why I see no problem in it. Secondly, the staff of the Greenlandic institutions with the bill have the possibility of using pepper sprays and shields against the inmates. Experience with the introduction of pepper spray as a means of power in Danish prisons is positive from the Ministry's information, as I read it. Among other things: It has been shown that the possibility of using pepper spray actually has a preventive effect. The threat of use has in itself been enough, and so it has not been necessary to use force at all. And if it has still been necessary to use force, pepper spray has been in many situations perhaps prevented the need for further use of force. Overall, therefore, it is possible that the use of pepper spray contributes to a greater degree of security for the staff of the Department of Criminal Welfare. The Department of Criminal Welfare in Greenland lays down the detailed rules for the use of pepper spray, and of course, as the comments show, the use should be carried out in a proportionate and as gentle manner as possible with subsequent medical supervision. This also accommodates a number of points of interest from the hearing. Thirdly, it is proposed that amendments be made to the criminal code, which is linked to the simultaneous entry into force of the restraining order for Greenland. It may seem that there are some practical challenges and difficulties in issuing a restraining order, etc. to persons in villages and small towns in Greenland, but it is fundamental to the restraining law that the fact that the parties to the restraining proceedings are neighbours or colleagues does not rule out the granting of a restraining order. So it must also be possible to apply in Greenland. Thus, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132819	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206132831	Thank you. Yes, we are talking about L 72 and it has been well summed up by the other rapporteurs. We had a discussion today at our live streamed group meeting, as we do in the Alternative, and in relation to the first point on telephone preaching, I would really like to support the fact that distances sometimes make fast preaching impossible. That's why it might be a good idea to call. But in terms of texting, we are a little reluctant, perhaps even very reluctant, because it may be an overstepping of privacy that suddenly a text is ticking in while you sit in the company of your in-laws, that now you have to go to jail or now you have to go to your or that hearing. We'd like to look into the legal situation. Is this something that has been promised in advance, or is it something that can just happen? Paragraph 2 on the use of force in Greenlandic institutions is again positive about having read the consultation answers. We have seen that the effect in Danish prisons has been quite good, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has outlined, so we can agree with that. The same applies to the law on restraining and expulsion, i.e. that there must of course be some proportionality, in relation to some Greenlanders living in settlements where there can be a very long way to another settlement if you had to move. As Mr. Christian Juhl emphasizes, I think, that it is important for us to have the Greenlanders fully dealt with the bill before we take our own position here in the Folketing, and that is also what we intend to do in the Alternative. So, immediately, we cannot support or say no to the draft law, but we are just awaiting a committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133027	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133031	But in relation to the procedure for when things are finished in Greenland, the self-government has decided on L 72 before the first reading. And when they pushed their last treatment, we also pushed our first treatment. So the procedure has been followed all the way through, and we do so generally in relation to the agreements we make with self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133056	Thank you. I guess that was a comment more than a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133102	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133111	The Radical Left agrees with the proposal. It makes good sense that in Greenland, as in Denmark, you can preach per person. phone. You can be tempted to say that it almost makes even better sense in Greenland than it does in Denmark, where you have such long distances and where you can take full advantage of this, just as we do in Denmark. We agree, of course, with the parties who are very aware of what Greenland itself thinks in these matters, but we also understand that an agreement has been reached with Greenland's self-government on that procedure. As far as the use of pepper spray in establishments is concerned, it is also the same legislation that we have in Denmark and which, hopefully, will not lead to even greater use of force than that, and on that basis we can agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133203	There is a brief comment, Mr President. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133206	I agree with the rapporteur of the Radicals that when Greenland wants to introduce some laws, we must say, as a general rule, that they must do so. But when Greenland's Human Rights Council writes that they cannot recommend the use of pepper spray in Greenlandic hospitals, because it is contrary to the principles of the way in which the establishments are run, and when they say that the use of shields must be regarded as conflict stairs, there are also Greenlanders who warn against these things. It is therefore important that we look at the nuances of it and take the debate seriously and bring it into the Parliamentary Chamber, in my opinion, and thus also ask the Minister for a proper answer to how these things are connected and find a way to do so so, so that the Greenlanders are comfortable with it. What does the radical rapporteur think about the remarks made by the Greenland Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133302	It is in Greenland, as it is in Denmark, that there is also a political debate on various legislative proposals, and it will quite often be the case, just as it is in Denmark, that not all parts of Greenlandic society are 100% agreed on what to think of various legislative proposals, including this bill to be able to apply pepper spray. But what I feel we are obliged to listen to here in the Folketing must of course be the attitude of the Greenland Government and the position of the Greenland political majority on this. Because if we do not take that majority seriously, we do not respect democracy in Greenland, and that must be the starting point. I also agree that all good consultation answers, both in Greenland and in Denmark, must be taken seriously, and of course I am also interested in having answers to the questions which Mr. Christian Juhl mentions, but when it comes to the right of consultation on what is going on here, I believe that we should, as a starting point, listen to the responsible government in Greenland and the majority it has behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133401	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133402	I believe we are morally obliged to listen also to the grassroots in Greenland, whether they have the support of a majority in Parliament or not. And I think that the details that must be in this, of course, must be cleared off before we just say, "Okay, let's go." It must be in a dialogue between the Danish and Greenlandic governments that you find what is best suited to Greenland. When politicians up there sometimes say that there are some problems, we also have to take them seriously and discuss them. I therefore believe that we must give a clear message to the Minister to clarify these things and to find out whether there are some things we need to do a little better before we hit the nail in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133444	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133445	I always listen to grass roots, both from Greenland and from Denmark and from anywhere else in the world. I am listening to all those people who have opinions about the legislation we are making in here, of course. But it is rather different from the fact that we, I think, in the Folketing should listen a great deal to the Greenlandic Government on principle. Let me put it another way: if the Greenland Government did not want this bill adopted, I do not think I would support it. But now the Greenlandic Government and a majority of Greenlandic politicians want this proposal adopted, but of course we have to listen to grass roots. We have to do that in Greenland, we have to do that in Denmark, and we have to do that at all. And if we can learn more, I am sure the Minister would like to do that, and if you can make adjustments that make it even more suitable for Greenland, we are only happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133532	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133544	After all, the bill contains some very different parts. The first is about telephone preaching, and I am particularly surprised at the fact that it has not been introduced a long time ago. The SF supports that part of the proposal, and we support the proposal for a restraining order. In the part of the proposal which deals with the use of force, I pay particular attention to the comments made by the Legal Affairs Association. Like the association, SF expects pepper spray to be used only in the closed section of the hospital in Nuuk. Of course, as Naalaksuisut does in their comments, SF expects this to be complied with, i.e. that it only happens in emergencies and that the use of pepper spray should be recorded. In addition, the SF also expects guidelines to be drawn up for the use of force. With those comments, the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133643	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133647	The SF rapporteur says that they may only be used indoors in a specified facility. The Institute for Human Rights in Denmark makes a number of recommendations on pepper spray in a report they have written, including that pepper spray as a starting point is not used in enclosed spaces or against a person over whom full control has been achieved. The last thing is logic. But they recommend that you do not use pepper spray in closed rooms. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133719	Now I don't understand what's going on with the closed asylum in Nuuk, like it's in closed rooms. This is the closed facility in Nuuk. It's not just a closed room. But, by the way, I am simply referring to the fact that this proposal is supported by Naala Suisut, and that is why we support it in respect of the process that is in Greenland, regardless of the fact that you can find relevant comments against the use of pepper spray. In Greenland, however, it is thought to be useful, and I note in particular the comments made by the Association for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133750	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Juhl one more brief comment? Mr. Christian Juhl not. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133815	As several rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law includes three elements. The first element is a new form of service which the courts and the police can use in the future, via mobile phones and text messages. It makes sense. Greenland is a large country with long distances and changing weather conditions, so it makes great sense. There you save time and resources. Secondly, shields and pepper sprays are introduced as new means of power in the Greenlandic institutions. We have good experience with this from Denmark, which also makes sense. Thirdly, there is greater protection for victims of harassment and persecution. That makes sense, too. All in all, the good elements that we Conservatives support are good ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133904	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206133914	This draft law was first presented before there was a report from the Inatsisartut Legislative Committee, and it is positive that the bill was moved so that the Folketing could follow its own self-government law, where an opinion from Inatsisartut is required before the Folketing deals with a bill concerning Greenland. The Legal Affairs Committee in Inatsisartut has thus had the opportunity to present a report in the meantime, and Inuit Ataqatigiit can agree to the examination of the bill in the Folketing. However, we just remind you that the Folketing must of course follow the rules of the Self-Government Act. Inuit Ataqatigiit agrees with the technical observations made in the Code of Procedure and in the Criminal Code presented here today. However, we have a number of comments to make on the individual parts. Telephone preaching is a much needed tool to ensure faster processing and better use of the resources of the police and the judiciary in Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit can only support the possibility of telephone preaching now becoming a reality, just as Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the amendment so that court staff can make telephone preaching without special appointment. It should be noted, however, that in the field of telephone service all precautions must be made clear so that the right addressee has understood and received the message, including, of course, ensuring that there are no linguistic barriers preventing the addressee from receiving the message. A witness is given by a police officer, a municipal officer or a subpoena officer or subpoena woman, and at Inuit Ataqatigiit we remind you that 13 municipal officers are still missing and that an early solution to this problem should be found by the Greenland police with the help of the Ministry of Justice. It is noted that the working group set up to look at telephone preaching in Denmark made its report almost six years ago. Already the following year in 2012 became telephone preaching and, among other things, telephone preaching. the possibility of text reminder is an option in Denmark, but it is now only 5 years after the possibility enters into force for Greenland. It is positive that the right of passage, which is closer to the citizen than the right in Greenland, takes a position on requests for, among other things. restraining order. The law aims to protect people from violence, persecution and harassment, and Inuit Ataqatigiit can only back this up. Greenland's Self-Government has also previously expressed a desire for action in relation to an overall plan of actions that can help stalking victims, which is in line with an increased focus on the victims of violence and harassment, which is also described in the strategy of violence in Greenland. So these actions fully support Inuit Ataqatigiit. The Greenland Judicial Council, which annually looks at Greenland's justice system, has recommended the possibility that the Department of Criminal Welfare in Greenland may apply pepper sprays and shields to the inmates in the asylums. The aim of the use of force must be to reduce conflicts and avoid offending behaviour towards prisoners, and the principle of proportionality and gentleness must be followed. The use of pepper spray should only be the last option, and thus the use of force should be avoided unless it is extremely necessary to prevent threatening behaviour or prevent self-harm. The use of force today can take place by grip or by rod. Pushes cannot be used as described in the Order of Power, as it has actually been abolished in Greenland, so it is reasonable that the legislation is adapted to practice in this case. Shield has previously been used as the use of force, but with the current criminal law of 2010, and if the goal of shielding is to passiveise and thereby use as little power as possible against the inmate is the goal one wants to achieve, Inuit Ataqatigiit accepts the amendment to the criminal code in this respect. Inuit Ataqatigiit notes that the police in Greenland have access to pepper spray, and it can of course be considered an escalation of the conflict if the police first have to be involved before one can pacify a violent one. For Inuit Ataqatigiit it is essential to stress that the use of pepper spray should not be done in smaller and closed rooms. The necessary use of pepper spray in such adapted rooms shall be done by ensuring that the personnel of the Department of Police are protected in conflict prevention, including in relation to mentally ill people, but also in the use of pepper spray. Finally, it is important to stress that there must be guidelines for the handling of pepper sprays and to ensure that the inmate can be inspected subsequently by a doctor. In their report, Inatsisartut's Legal Affairs Committee notes that the use of pepper spray should be the very last resort and that the use of force should only take place when it is absolutely necessary. All options for conflict prevention and conflict management should be tried and staff training should be ensured.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134442	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134446	Thank you. The Greenland Human Rights Council opposes the use of pepper spray in Greenlandic establishments. It should be borne in mind that institutions should not be regarded as prisons, and the use of pepper spray as a means of using force does not harmonize at all with the principles of the Greenlandic institutions, they write. They also write that the use of shields must be regarded as conflict stairs. When seen in Danish prisons and the conflict stairwelling effect that shields have had, it must be considered unlikely that the same will not also be the result in Greenland. This is stated in the reply from the Greenland Human Rights Council. What does the rapporteur of the IA say about those remarks?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134524	There is no doubt that IA has also had its concerns about the use of shields and especially the use of pepper spray. Therefore, it has also been very important for me to be in dialogue with the Department of Criminal Welfare in Greenland to hear what it really is, what it is and what specific situations you can face, where you may have to have some more tools or some more options. I note in particular in the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that it is hoped that the clarifications made by the Institute for Human Rights will also be part of the final legislative proposal or, possibly, of the Greenlandic Order for the Use of Power. In this way, we will ensure that there are tools that help to ensure that we take into account the needs of the inmates.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134614	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134615	I can see that the answer from the Greenland Human Rights Council also says that in other Nordic countries, for example. Sweden, it is only allowed to use pepper spray in the emergency dish and emergency guardian, and in Norway the use of pepper spray is not allowed at all. And then they write that it must also be considered as aggravating to use pepper spray in closed rooms, which it will be when used in the establishments. Is it true that it is only a closed room when you are in a hospital in Greenland and that it will therefore always be used indoors?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134649	It is important that we have at least a discussion on the physical framework for the institutions today. What we can see is that some of the physical frames, some of the establishments around Greenland, are not up to date. It is an additional task, you might say, as we also have to look at forward-looking. In some places it looks worse than others. We have had a number of new establishments around Greenland, but not everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134717	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206134729	The recommendations of the Greenland Judicial Commission were published in 2004. It was a judicial commission consisting of Danish and Greenlandic good people who joined forces to make some recommendations for improvements in the area of justice in Greenland, because the justice area in Greenland has not been a political priority from the Danish Parliament and from the Ministry of Justice for many, many years. As a result, this commission worked very long, even for as long as 10 years, and after working for as long as 10 years, they made very concrete recommendations for improvements in the legal field in Greenland. These were published in 2004. The recommendations have not yet been implemented. I hope that our new Minister for Justice will ensure that many of these very important recommendations from the Legal Affairs Commission back in 2004 will be implemented in Greenland to enhance legal certainty for all parts of the realm on an equal footing. Today, as has already been mentioned, there are 14 out of 60 villages without municipalities. This is like not having a landscaping officer you don't have a law representative to contact, and it's not sustainable for many people in the community. I am very pleased to see that the government's basis says that legal certainty in Greenland must be on an equal footing with legal certainty in Denmark. So we really have high expectations of the new government regarding the implementation of the recommendations made in connection with the work of the Legal Affairs Commission. Naalakkersuisut has endorsed the bill in Inatsisartut, and in Inatsisartut it was dealt with as paragraph 140 during the autumn session. The bill was forwarded to the Legal Affairs Committee for consideration, and the motion for a resolution deals with Greenland's self-government's opinion on a draft request and a draft bill. The draft law and the draft decree include restraining orders, residences, bans and expulsions, telephone preaching and the use of force in Greenlandic establishments. There have been no changes to the bill on telephone preaching from the Inatsisartut Legislative Committee, but the committee had comments on the use of pepper spray. These are very clearly set out in the report. The Naalakkersuisut has made their opinions on the proposal and in this connection they address their additional comments to the Minister for Justice on their scepticism about the use of pepper spray in Greenlandic establishments, as well as this scepticism is noted in the report by Mr Inatsisartut. The Legal Affairs Committee has tabled an amendment which has been agreed in Inatsisartut. In addition, the Ministry of Justice assumes that the Department of Criminal Welfare in Greenland instructs employees to the necessary extent on the rules and the use of pepper spray and ensures that it is used as a preventive measure in the Greenlandic establishments. I agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135057	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135110	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their largely positive comments and the positive reception of the draft law. It seems that we can provide broad support for the amendment of the Greenlandic Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm really glad. As you know, the law involves a number of measures of a different nature. Firstly, the draft law proposes the introduction of a new form of preaching in Greenland, namely telephone preaching. The rules on telephone preaching were introduced in Denmark in 2012 and you look at both distances and weather conditions, in the view of the government, it makes very good sense to introduce similar rules in Greenland. In addition to this more modern form of service, I would also like to point out that the courts and the police, as something new in Greenland, will be able to send reminders as a service per year. texting people who are due to appear in court. It is the Government's expectation that this will create a more effective preaching system which will reduce the number of reframes and deferred hearings. Secondly, the draft law proposes that shields and pepper sprays be introduced as new means of power in the Greenlandic establishments. Experience from Danish prisons has shown that the possibility of using pepper spray has a preventive effect, as it has itself contributed to inmates complying with staff instructions. It is the Government's expectation that the possibility of using pepper spray in Greenlandic hospitals will have the same preventive effect as it has had in Danish prisons, so that further use of force can be avoided. Thirdly, the draft law contains amendments which are consistent with the simultaneous entry into force of the Royal Decree on restraining orders, residence bans, expulsions. With the entry into force of the law, we in Greenland will have a more up-to-date, flexible set of rules which will help to strengthen efforts to protect victims of harassment and persecution. With these comments, I would like once again to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further discussion here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135325	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135328	Thank you very much for your comments. I would also like to congratulate the new Minister of Justice. I look forward to a good cooperation on justice in Greenland, hopefully. This bill will also give rise to a number of other considerations which came out in the course of the debate. It is the case that the Council of Lawyers has published a report here last week, just as the Greenland Human Rights Council, together with the Institute for Human Rights, has published a report which points to a large number of recommendations on the safeguarding of human rights. Some of these areas are also a Danish responsibility, and I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about the willingness of the Danish Government to comply with some of the recommendations on human rights and legal certainty in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135420	I certainly think that, when the recommendations have just been made, we should sit down, go through them well and have a dialogue on what opportunities there are. I shall look forward to discussing this further with the questioner, i.e. what is most important, what we need to promote, what we need to address first. I think it is vitally important, as the government's basis also says, that we strengthen legal certainty in Greenland. There are some areas where we need to get to grips. I think that is clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135449	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135451	These draft laws, which we have before us, on the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, are, after all, about some Greenlandic parliamentary laws. And one of the recommendations we have from Greenland is that you have Greenlandic parliamentary laws rather than royal regulations, because it is the case that it becomes a copy, you might say, of a Danish law, where you have not taken into account whether there are any special conditions that need to be thought in from the very beginning when you are knitting a law together. Another point is that you have no comment on the royal devices, and it can be very difficult to interpret the legislation if you do not have those comments when you sit as a case officer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135535	I know that work is being done to get a meeting between the questioner and me, and I look forward to discussing it further. I think we should make some effort to see ourselves in the legislation in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135551	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135554	I think it is a question of ensuring that the two are more interested in legal certainty in Greenland than in the past, i.e. the Minister and the rapporteur from IA, and I think it would be a very, very good idea if our two Greenlandic colleagues invited the Minister to Greenland to look at the legal system and the institutions. After all, there are a great many things that we owe to getting things sorted out and that we have promised for many, many years. It could be a good opportunity for that too. But I would really like to ask the Minister: what does he think about the comments that have been made about the use of pepper spray? It is more than suggested at least by some that there is a difference between a prison in Denmark and an institution in Greenland. There is also a great difference in principle, and thus also a difference in whether using shields and pepper sprays can be conflict stairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135652	First of all, I look forward to visiting Greenland when the day comes and getting a closer look at the state of the whole area. On pepper spray, I have to say that, firstly, I have at least the approach that it is, of course, the safety of employees that is the main issue. And there we can see that pepper spray has a preventive effect. Having said that, it is also true that according to the Greenland criminal law, the use of force in institutions must only take place if the intervention is proportional to the purpose. Of course, clear rules must also be laid down as to what employees should do in relation to the use of pepper spray. Of course. It's not something you just use like that, but I think it's an important means of power to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135746	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135748	I agree that the safety of employees must be taken into account, but if solutions are chosen which are conflicting, then we are helping to increase the insecurity of employees. You have to be careful about that. And that is precisely what is referred to in various of the consultation responses that have been, both from Denmark and from Greenland, that only the presence of shields in a prison can be a signal that there is a serious conflict here when there is conflict. Then it's not good for the cops who have to look after the inmates.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135823	Well, I have to say to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, that it is also a law which Greenland's Self-Government has agreed to with some comments, yes. There are a large number of conditions with shields and pepper spray that must be met. I think this is just as much about a political attitude to what is right. Well, there's a reason these people are in jail. And if it's about protecting the safety of employees best by having that means of power, I think it's a good thing it does. But it doesn't have to be used in vain. And I think it is important that there are clear rules on how to use it and when to use it, so there is certainty that it is done according to the rules it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135907	Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206135910	Thank you. The Minister says that this is about the political position that we have in this Chamber. I do not agree with that. Because exactly as far as Greenland is concerned, I think the minister himself will see that when he gets up there, it's about the culture and the people that this is going to work with. I know that the Minister is pricing the use of pepper spray, but it is a quite different group of people who go to prison up there than those who go to prison here at home, where we are marked by bicker types and immigrant gangs, and what do I know? It is not the type of people who sit in the Greenlandic institutions, and it is therefore very, very important, as Mr. Christian Juhl says that we should be careful that we do not help to escalate something that there is no need to step up. And we can have some very serious thoughts about that, while at the same time looking after the employees. So I would like to ask the Minister: will the Minister cooperate closely with Greenland to get the job done in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140027	Of course I'd like that. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that I am not here to think of anything; it is Greenland's Self-Government that has joined and agrees with that law. And then it is clear, then there are some clear rules in Greenland about how to use pepper spray and how it should be. There must, of course, be clear guidelines, that goes without saying, and I fully agree with that. And that is the work that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140104	But is the Minister aware that the Home Rule Government of Greenland has expressed great concern and scepticism about the introduction of pepper spray?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140125	Certainly, but they have joined. I also believe that it is important, therefore, to ensure the right proportionality, to ensure that it is not used in conflict stairs, but only in those situations where it is absolutely necessary, and then, of course, there must be clear rules on when pepper spray is used. I have no wish that you should just go around spraying pepper spray, everything you can, and empty one can after another. It is only in those very, very special situations where it is necessary to ensure the safety of employees and where there are no other solutions. I don't think we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140152	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140156	Congratulations on the Justice Department. As I said earlier, I have high expectations of significant improvements in the area of justice in Greenland, since it also says in the government base that legal certainty in Greenland and legal conditions in Greenland must be at the same level as in all other parts of Denmark. The Legal Affairs Commission made their recommendations back in 2004, so we see two significant markings on which the Minister of Justice can continue to work. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice what priorities he currently has in raising legal certainty in Greenland and what concrete steps he intends to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140243	On the eighth working day, the Minister does not have a large catalogue of what is going to happen with legal certainty in Greenland, apart from the fact that I am aware that there is now a report we need to address. We have some challenges to solve. I fully understand that one of the serious challenges we have, among other things. is that there are places, settlements, where there is no municipal bailiff, and one can ask oneself how to ensure safety there. That's something we need to take a look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140313	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140315	In that case, we two Greenlandic MPs very much welcome good, close cooperation with the Minister of Justice, because we have some good ideas about what the Minister of Justice can do. In this context, I would like to call on the Minister of Justice to invite us to a dialogue. Then I think there will also be an understanding of improving the work for legal certainty in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140340	This may be about a little more than the bill itself, but here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140345	Yeah. We're spreading out. But I am happy to do so, and I shall look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140350	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140402	The debate is open. It's sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140415	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party supports the proposal, the aim of which is to postpone the revision of the provisions of the Public Service Act on mailing lists from the parliamentary year 2016-17 to the parliamentary year 2017-18. It is a scheme that was launched back in January 2015 and it expires at the end of the year 2016. The evaluation of the pilot system of mailing lists is intended to provide a basis for assessing whether the system can be made permanent, including whether the system should cover all departments and agencies. Social democracy shares the concern behind the postponed revision to the parliamentary year 2017-18, because it would give very little time for evaluation if the bill were already to be adopted in this parliamentary year. This is because the experimental system has not yet expired. In addition, as the government also points out in the comments to the draft law, we are faced with an early planned evaluation of the Public Procurement Act. As you know, it was agreed, in addition to the political agreement of 2012 on the Public Procurement Act, that it should be evaluated three years after its entry into force. In the context of the general evaluation, the Social Democratic Party considers that the experimental system of mailing lists can be usefully included. Against this background, as I said, the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140526	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140539	Thank you, President. The proposal here is to allow the revision of section 16 of the Public Service Act on open mailing lists to be postponed until the parliamentary year 2017-18 from the current parliamentary year. Section 44 of the Public Procurement Act states that the Minister of Justice is obliged to make a bill in this year on the revision of Article 16 on the open mailing lists. Since 1 January 2015, an experimental scheme has been in operation in the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Danish Maritime Authority, the Slagelse Municipality and the Region of Southern Denmark. The pilot scheme will expire on 1 January next year and will therefore run for a total of 2 years. Subsequently, the study shall be evaluated. According to the bill here, the Ministry of Justice is unable to evaluate the trial and make proposals for revision of the rules in this parliamentary year. That is the argument for postponing it. I cannot imagine anyone would mind reading the evaluation before the rules are revised. I can't wait to read it. However, the timing of the evaluation of the experiment and the revision of the rules comes as no surprise to anyone. The time perspective has been known both in the Ministry of Justice and therefore also here in the Danish Parliament for several years. I cannot understand why, at the time, legislative proposals on the deadline for revision have been made if we do not intend to meet the deadline. I don't understand. I hope that the Minister will elaborate on how this can be done. Nor do I see the great advantage in evaluating the mailing list attempt in the same way as the evaluation of the Ministerial Rule and the Rule of Parliamentary Politics of the Public Service Act. These are different things, as the Ministry of Justice also states in the commentary on the consultation summary in a response to a Danish media hearing, which I think is quite relevant. If we recognise that the evaluations deal with different things and do not have to be evaluated together, I do not understand what the argument for the evaluations to be done at the same time might be. For us in the Danish People's Party there is nothing new in what is being put forward here. The only thing that has changed is that you do not want to revise the rules on open mailing lists as originally adopted, and so I can inform you that the Danish People's Party, as is currently the case, intends to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140818	There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140824	Like the Social Democratic Party, the Left can support the bill to postpone the evaluation and wait for the entire period from 2016-17 to 2017-18 in relation to the experience base of the open mailing lists. It is always possible to discuss whether elements have anything to do with each other, but that certainly has something to do with public opinion, and we will have an overall evaluation and an overall basis to assess what is going to happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206140919	After all, this bill is to postpone the agreed revision deadline for Article 16 of the Public Procurement Act on mailing lists, and it is to be postponed for one year until the parliamentary year 2017-18. In line with consultation answers from the Danish Journalist Federation and the Danish Media, it is the view of Enhedslisten that these mailing lists, with which experiments have been carried out in the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Danish Maritime Authority, the Region of Southern Denmark and the Municipality of Slagelse, did not need to have been part of an experimental scheme from the outset. You could have made these open mailing lists compulsory from the start. So now that we are going to postpone the evaluation of this by a year, as the draft law implies, we see absolutely no reason for it at all in the light of the much greater degree of secrecy that came from the reform of public law, which has, of course, meant that there is more access to documents in the public sector. It has become more difficult to gain insight into how power operates, for example. at Slotsholmen here in Copenhagen. So when, at last, there is an initiative with open mailing lists, which is something good, and when we also have a lot of foreign experience showing that open mailing lists can easily be operated, and that having open mailing lists, which you can access via the network, can provide a good overview of which documents you want access to in order to look for power in the cards, and when it does not even become mandatory, then at least you could expect that the timetable for evaluating some of the good things that were around open mailing lists and the attempt there, which was originally made in connection with the adoption of a public law which just created much more secrecy, was also complied with. But it puts this bill in place so you don't have to. The mailing lists should have been mandatory from the outset, and since the entry into force of the Public Procurement Act there has been both reasonable and plenty of time to evaluate the experimental scheme. The primary reason for inserting an explicit revision deadline for the mailing list system was that there was to be a final evaluation of the mailing list attempt and a position on the future mailing list system quickly and most recently in this assembly. After all, the review deadline was already included in the draft law on public disclosure in the administration, which was tabled on 7 February 2013 and it has been a long time since then. This is a very limited experimental scheme, which I also explained at the beginning, involving the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Danish Maritime Authority, the Region of Southern Denmark and the municipality of Slagelse. There is also today a very large and well-documented experience which can be usefully drawn on in the preparation of the evaluation. We are also familiar with the experience of Norway with open mailing lists, and we could draw on the experience there. This bill smells a lot like another delay in the process rather than a desire to make a real evaluation. Of course, Enhedslisten cannot support this when we are talking about a law that has already increased the secrecy quite significantly in relation to the possibility of seeking access to documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141308	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141315	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the Public Service Act in general needs a thorough evaluation. However, if the proposal is to postpone the evaluation of a scheme which will not expire until the end of 2016 until next year, then we can easily see the meaning of it. There must, of course, be an opportunity to carry out a thorough and proper evaluation of the pilot scheme with mailing lists, which is why it makes good sense to postpone the evaluation of it in relation to the timing and therefore we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141354	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141407	Thank you. As several have noted, the purpose of this bill is to postpone the revision of § 16, the mailing list scheme, from the parliamentary year 2016-17 to the parliamentary year 2017-18. According to the Minister for Justice, this is due to the fact that there is not much time to evaluate the experimental scheme. There is really little to say about this other than what Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also highlighted, and as the Danish Journalists' Association points out in their hearing answer, namely that the mailing lists should have been mandatory from the very beginning. There has been plenty of time to evaluate the experimental scheme, and there is no link between the revision of the mailing list clause that we are discussing today, and the other evaluation of the Public Procurement Act, which the Ministry otherwise highlights as a key argument in the legislative text's comments. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister: since the deadline for this review was written into section 44, which was adopted on 12 June 2013, i.e. 31⁄2 years ago, how can this time horizon in any way surprise the Minister and the Ministry? So what real reasons is there for the Minister, what real reasons can the Minister put forward for failing to ensure that the mailing lists have been expanded and revised in time, rather than introducing the pilot scheme only in 2015 and then today coming to say that there was not enough time to evaluate? I simply do not understand that. As you know, in the alternative, we are, as I see it, of the opinion of both the Conservative and Liberal Alliance that transparency in the work of the administration is very important. These are the mailing list schemes, for example. helping to secure. Hopefully, this will help to increase public and press insight into the work of the administration, and that is why it is all about spreading it as much as possible. So we disagree that it should be necessary to link this evaluation with a later and more general evaluation of the Public Service Act, and we disagree with the purpose of the bill as a whole. We believe that we should have acted in time. We look forward to hearing the Minister's answer as to why action is only now being taken. That is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141621	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141628	A lot has been said from up here already. Nor can we support the proposal. At the outset, it might seem to make sense to combine evaluations, but since they are different types of evaluations and different paragraphs, we really do think better that we will clarify the mailing list system first, also because it seems like a fairly low-hanging fruit, which may not be as controversial and inflamed as some of the issues we will be discussing later in the context of the major evaluation. So in order to also release time and energy for the great fundamental debate that awaits us in the parliamentary year 2017-18 on the basis of the general evaluation, we think that we should pick the low-hanging fruits where we hopefully can easily reach agreement on the mailing list system and clarify that already in the parliamentary year 2016-17. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141740	SF's usual rapporteur in this area, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, has not had the opportunity to be here today. SF supports the work on revising the Public Procurement Act. More light is needed, and it can open mailing lists contributing to that. SF is pleased with the Minister for Justice's comments from before he became minister, namely when he advocated more openness. Then we have to ask today how the Minister can propose a postponement of the evaluation, despite the fact that it has been a long time in the process. The Danish Journalist Federation says in the consultation answer that mailing lists should have been mandatory since the entry into force of this Public Act and that since the entry into force of the Public Act there has been both reasonable and ample time to evaluate the experimental scheme. Danish Media writes that they are of the opinion that there is already a very large and well-documented material of experience that can be drawn on in the preparation of the evaluation. The Danish Media also notes that the delay leaves an impression of a deliberate delay in the process. For SF, it makes no sense either to delay the process, which is why we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141858	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206141903	In the Conservative People's Party, we look forward to the public law being evaluated in 2017, as agreed. In addition, we are pleased that the government's basis already points out in advance that there is a need to relax the protection of the internal and political decision-making process of the ministerial service rule in relation to the current rules. The system of compulsory mailing lists was originally introduced as an experimental system. That experimental scheme shall end at the end of 2016 and once it has ceased, the scheme shall be evaluated. The purpose of the bill is to allow time to evaluate the experimental scheme before the actual rule is revised in 2017-18. This ensures that the evaluation of the mailing list system can in the best possible way affect the revision of § 16. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that it is sensible to allow time to carry out an evaluation of the trial scheme in 2016-17 before evaluating § 16. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142027	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's the Minister of Justice, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142033	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments and contributions. The purpose of the bill is to postpone the revision of section 16 of the Public Procurement Act on mailing lists from the parliamentary year 2016-17 to the parliamentary year 2017-18. The reason for the delay is that there is currently an experimental system with open mailing lists. The experimental scheme expires at the turn of the year and it must be evaluated. The evaluation forms the basis for a review of section 16 of the Public Procurement Act, including a position on the extent to which the mailing list system should be made permanent. This means that both the evaluation of the trial and the submission of the bill to revise the rule on mailing lists should in principle take place over the winter and spring 2017. This will leave very little time to carry out the evaluation, which is why it is thought that the evaluation as provided for in the parliamentary year 2016-17, but the review of the rule of mailing lists will be postponed until the parliamentary year 2017-18. In this way, the best possible basis will be provided for the actual inclusion of the experience gained from the evaluation of the trial in the draft law on the mailing list rule. In addition, as you know, a general evaluation of the Public Procurement Act is being carried out. The evaluation will be followed up in spring 2017. The postponement of the revision of the mailing list rule also allows the question of open mailing lists to be included in the discussions that will be in the spring. With those comments, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142222	Thank you, Minister. No one wanted short comments at all. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142242	The debate is open and the first is the Minister of Justice. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142324	Thank you. The motion for a resolution highlights a very important area: combating the involvement of advisers in serious tax evasion. Tax evasion is a threat to our welfare society, which can only exist if each of us pays the tax to which we are obliged. That is why tax evasion is also punishable under the criminal code with a penalty of 8 years in prison, and that is why it is also particularly unacceptable if institutions in which we otherwise rely, as banks, lawyers and accountants, advise on tax evasion. It is not their job, it is a criminal offence, and it must, of course, be combated. It is important that we have a strong and up-to-date criminal protection against tax evasion and its involvement. I must also understand the resolution that the intention behind the proposal is to combat advice on serious tax evasion. In addition, I have to understand the motion for a resolution so that, under the proposed provision, it should be possible to punish the advice on serious tax evasion as an independent criminal act. The government therefore also supports the intentions behind the proposal. In this context, I would like to make it clear that there is already an opportunity today to prosecute independently the involvement of advisors in tax evasion and complicity in attempts to tax evasion. So we already have in the criminal code a very wide range of rules on attempts and involvement, which make it possible to hit any action aimed at promoting or causing the execution of a crime, including those who are trying to get someone to commit something criminal. If an adviser in e.g. A bank advises a customer about gross tax evasion, so he can already be punished for it today. It then follows from quite basic legal principles that it must be possible to prove that there has been concrete advice on serious tax evasion and that the consultant has had the intention to provide advice on serious tax evasion. This applies in these rules, as in all other criminal cases. As mentioned, it is important to have a strong criminal protection against tax evasion. This represents a significant challenge for both the Danish and the international community. That is why it is also explicitly stated in the government's constitution that the government will fight tax evasion, and that, of course, also applies to the advice of lawyers, accountants and banks on this matter. Several initiatives have already been taken to strengthen the fight against serious tax evasion in the light of, among other things, the so-called Panama Papers. Thus, in the spring, the previous government published a package of legal certainty II together with a very broad majority in the Folketing. One of the elements of the package is the reduction of the Tax Law Council. In connection with the publication, the Minister of Taxation indicated that the Tax Law Council as one of its first tasks should consider whether the Danish rules are sufficiently robust to prevent tax evasion through the use of tax havens and the extent of this. Later this spring there was a question debate here in the Danish Parliament on tax havens. The question, which was addressed to the tax minister, came among other things. against the background of the so-called Panama Papers. The question resulted in a decision in which the Folketing, among other things, took part. Takes note that the Government ensures that the new Tax Law Council quickly uncovers the scope of tax havens and how it is limited. Against this background, the Treasurer's Law Council now looks among others. whether the existing Danish tax rules are sufficiently robust to limit tax evasion in Denmark through the use of tax havens. They are also looking at whether there is a need to tighten up the penalties for tax evasion. It is therefore explicitly stated in the terms of reference that they must examine whether there is a need to strengthen the advisory responsibility. The Tax Law Council is therefore examining whether the existing rules on advisory liability for tax evasion should be tightened up and whether there is a need to impose an obligation on advisers to provide information on advice or customers related to tax havens. According to the Terms of Reference, the Tax Law Board shall submit its recommendations on a regular basis and by the end of 2017 at the latest present its overall recommendation to the Tax Minister. As you know, the Tax Law Council is a matter for the Minister of Taxation, and any questions will have to be put to him. In addition, as stated in the government's constitution, the government will set up a criminal code commission, including: Its task is to propose the modernisation of the criminal code, which takes account of a modern pattern of crime. The Penal Code Commission will, among other things: In this context, the provisions of the Criminal Code are related to the cooperation provisions of the Criminal Code. It would be natural that this work should also be considered in conjunction with the work of the Tax Law Council, which deals with the responsibilities of advisors. Moreover, I can inform you that the prosecution is of course aware of whether, in cases of gross tax evasion and tax crime, there must be grounds for indicting any counsellor as well. If I am to sum up, I can say that today it is possible to punish counsellors for complicity in serious tax evasion and that there is work going on in the Tax Law Council, where it needs to be assessed whether further action is needed in the area of involvement in gross tax evasion. As I mentioned at the outset, the government supports the intentions behind the resolution, and I look forward in this respect to further discussion during the committee's deliberations on how we continue to ensure a strong criminal justice system that combats serious tax evasion advice. I believe that such a discussion should be taken into account in the initiatives already taken by the government, including the follow-up to the proceedings of the Tax Law Council and the forthcoming Criminal Code Commission in my own area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142924	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206142929	After all, we have put forward this proposal because we can see that, in many ways, it is unfortunately almost risk-free for banks, lawyers and accountants to advise on serious tax evasion. At least we have, for example. the large company emptying cases seen that there seems to have been not a single counsellor who has directly advised on tax fraud that has been sent to prison. And we think it is a major problem that we can apparently do an activity here which involves serious crime, but which in practice is completely risk-free. What is interesting with such a motion for a resolution and with regard to looking at how to make a tighter course is that we know that higher penalties and the risk of discovery have a significance when it comes to carefully planned, well-planned and well-considered crime, which is, of course, the case here. So why is it that a Justice Minister, who in all sorts of other contexts speaks too harshly at this point, seems not so fast on the trigger, that is, when it comes to making some punishments or at least some tightenings that would fall in a dry place?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143051	I don't know if I was standing here rejecting that either. I explained that you can have up to eight years in prison. I think that what is going on is very serious and that we should take it seriously. And it is now possible to prosecute counselors independently. Then it is simply that in the further reading we should look at whether we do not already have it in the toolbox today that we need or whether further discussions are needed on it. I really think I am trying to be very open, because I fully agree with the questioner that the prerequisite for us having a community of welfare that is linked is that people pay the tax they have to pay; otherwise our welfare society is not connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143133	I'm glad the Minister of Justice will discuss it. Is there any part of this proposal that has been put forward, where something could be added or changed a little bit, so that it could be adopted with the support of the Minister for Justice? It seems to me that the motion for a resolution has been brought up very clearly, in other words requiring the government to draw up a legislative proposal. And then when a bill is put forward, it will be possible to have the more detailed discussion of paragraphs, and you will be able to get the Minister's official apparatus to work on it thoroughly. So is it not possible for the Minister here today to say: I actually agree with the content of the proposal, but the details • if the Minister has any concerns • can we take into account when drawing up a specific legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143223	Now, with all due respect, it is not because it is a very detailed proposal that has been put forward. That is also why I say that we support the intentions, and then we would like to discuss how best we do it in the future. I'm actually trying to be honest with you... to be very open to us doing something here. Because I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who thinks that what is going on is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143243	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143247	It's just a completely clear question. The Minister said that there is already an opportunity today to prosecute counsellors who advise on gross tax evasion, and then I just have to understand it, because I got a little confused. Is it true that this can only be done if there is a criminal offence, in other words, if someone has actually committed serious tax evasion, that the counsellor can also be prosecuted? Or will it also be the case if there is no criminal act to follow the advice?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143327	There is now the possibility of prosecuting counsellors' involvement in tax evasion and complicity in attempts at tax evasion and attempted complicity in tax evasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143342	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143344	But does that not mean that if there is no investigation into an attempt at tax evasion or tax evasion in itself, one will not be able to go after the counsellor? If there has been a counselor who has advised on gross tax evasion and, in fact, it just stops there so that no one is acting on that advice, will you not be able to prosecute the counselor?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143415	As I have said, you can come after the counsellor by participating in attempts at tax evasion and attempts to cooperate with it. Of course this is the case, and I assume that here we mean, as is the case elsewhere in our legal society, that we should of course be able to lift a burden of proof for what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143436	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments. Then we move on to the ordinary rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143455	Thank you. The discussion of the motion for a resolution here must start with the discussion on tax havens. This is an issue that has existed for many years, but in recent years special attention has been paid to it on top of the leak from Luxembourg and since Panama, and this last week there was also what is called Football Leagues, which reveals how large sums of money are stored in tax havens in the world of football, and where the situation is so badly cut that ordinary people pay the taxes they are going to have to pay. It makes sure that the tax administration does more or less every month, and that then there is a small group of people who create companies or store personal fortunes in tax havens. It will end up being large billions of dollars, which will not come into the box where they should be and where billions can thus be allowed to breed in the shadow of the palm trees for the benefit of those who have hidden that money from the tax administration, but of course to the detriment of all of us who finance a common welfare society in Denmark and should have spent that money in schools, day care institutions, care for the elderly, etc. At the same time, there is the more fundamental issue, which is not so much about the money, but more about the fact that we can have democracy, where we decide that there are certain tax rules that apply and that they help to maintain a society, that we can run a welfare society, and that at the same time there is a completely systematic tax evasion and circumvention of the very same rules. It has been a matter for the Socialists to do something about this for a long time. While we were in government too, various initiatives were taken and, of course, proposals were now also made concerning interventions in Denmark and internationally. Several of them have been implemented by the government since we came up with our plans for tax havens in the spring. Most recently, you have agreed and changed your mind about this collaboration with informants who have information that can be used, that is to say, that you are willing to give some sort of finder's salary, so that you get information that is otherwise kept hidden that can be used to get prosecuted cases from the tax administration. So the previous government changed its mind about it, and we have been satisfied with that. On the other hand, we have been rejected in our desire to try to give SKAT more resources to pursue these cases. Now we're getting ahead of the counsellors' role in this, so that this can be done, because there are some people who are also making really good money by facilitating and profiting from doing this tax evasion and helping it take place via banks, law firms, asset managers and others. The last category of asset managers has even been written about recently by a researcher at CBS here in Copenhagen, who, through various interviews, uncovers a very special culture and a very special mindset among this group of asset managers who help make money disappear and avoid tax. It is true, as the Minister for Justice says, that there is already the possibility of prosecuting complicity in tax evasion. It is not a paragraph that they are very busy applying to the prosecution, and we are interested in sending out the very clear signal that not only banks, but also the entire consulting industry and the accountant industry have a special obligation to help get rid of these things, and thus also that the risk, if taken into account, will be greater, and will also be able to send out the signal that is the purpose of the proposal here, i.e. that only the provision of advice, and even if the advice is not followed, but only the provision of advice, will be subject to penalties, and that is criminal. As we see it, it is therefore possible to make it clearer than it is in the legislation today. We are happy to contribute to a dialogue and get it drilled out exactly what the Minister for Justice is actually referring to in the existing legislation. But immediately we are in favour of implementing it as part of what is being proposed in the proposal here. Our own idea of an approach would have been to take it up in the negotiations that will be with the government, the tax minister, not least, in the spring. These were, of course, those which were imposed on the government on top of the urgent request that was made in the spring, but where unfortunately too little has happened yet, but that was actually where we intended to address the issue. Now it has been put on the agenda of the Folketing and we are in favour of going this way and sending out the signal that lies in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143952	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206143956	Thank you for supporting this proposal. I have taken note of the many proposals made by the Social Democratic Party on 1 May to combat tax havens. I have also always thought that this was something that was also linked to the debate that should follow on from the urgent question mentioned by the rapporteur himself. However, I welcome the support for the proposal, and I am sure that we can address many of the other good proposals in this area, to tackle tax havens, and also to tackle them. on the list of proposals made by the Social Democratic Party. After all, there is a great deal of common goods, compared to what we are saying and have said and mean in the Enhedslisten on that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144042	The receipt has been received and I hope both that we can cooperate, but also that we can cooperate with other parties in the Things and with the government to get this through. It is actually more important than what parties have said in the past about a proposal like this, that it will end up succeeding in making some progress in this action against tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144102	The questioner? No. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144114	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution is about introducing a clause in the criminal code specifically penalising advice on serious tax evasion. I think that by far, the vast majority of Danes rightly became really angry and deeply resented when the news of the Panama papers came to the surface. I can understand that very well. It was a group of people who had managed to bring their fortune into tax havens to avoid paying taxes. Sir. and Mrs Jensen, who has always paid their taxes, even if the money has not hung on the trees, has probably rightly felt that it was deeply, deeply unfair. It is also true that a group of people do not answer the tax that society has imposed on them, because of course you have to follow the rules, whether you want the tax rate that we now have or someone else. You have to follow the same rules. I therefore also share the frustration expressed by the proposal and the intention that those who help to cheat taxes should somehow be held to account. That is why we have sympathy for the proposal as a starting point. I have noted that the comments say: "A separate provision will make it clear that one can be punished even if the actual tax evasion is not detected, cannot be proved, is not implemented or attempted, or the relationship between the advice and a specific tax evasion is unclear or difficult to prove. What I am putting in these remarks, which I have actually spent some time looking at, is that where the rules in force provide for the possibility of punishing counsellors who contribute to proven tax evasion or attempts to prove tax evasion, the resolution will require the government to take the initiative to create rules which will mean that advisers can be punished even in cases where there is no evidence that anything has happened. That sounds, of course, to me, as a very interesting proposal, which we would very much like to contribute to further discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we welcome the proposal, because we are in fact in favour of extending the scope of the scope for making advisors involved in tax fraud to account. We think that would be a very good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144349	There's no short... Yes, there was a brief comment from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144355	Thank you for the kind approach to the proposal that has been put forward here. It is true that this is precisely how it should be understood. Well, let's say I'm an advisor and I have the expertise to store some money illegally in tax havens, and I'm going to advise and what I'm advising on is clearly illegal... a person about how he can save his millions of dollars in tax havens. Then it may be that later it turns out that the person comes on other thoughts and chooses not to place his money in tax havens, but pays the tax to be paid. If later, through a leak, it can be proved that I have carried out this illegal tax advice, then I will be able to be punished. And this resolution and the legislation that we would like to see following it will make it clear that this kind of advice is a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144454	Thank you for your comment. I did not really sense any question, but I think it is really important that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights take up the question of where exactly the limits are going. It is, of course, something that I think is perhaps the weakness of the proposal, that is, the question of what it takes to advise enough to risk being prosecuted. I find that very interesting to get clarified, that is, where exactly one imagines the cut should lie. I therefore agree that there is a problem with people who are able to advise others to commit tax fraud without penalty, because they may not be able to document the specific case exactly. So there is a challenge. I'll buy it. I just think that we should be very, very careful about who is in principle made a criminal. So, of course, there must be limits, and we would very much like them to be bored out during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144547	I think that sounds like a really good idea. What the proposal implies is that a legislative proposal should be made to ensure that the burden of proof can be lifted first. There is no provision in this motion for a resolution for a legislative proposal to be tabled which would, as it were, weaken the burden of proof. The burden of proof must be lifted. It is also a requirement in the legislation we would like to see introduced that there should be evidence of a intention to advise, which means that this is not some loose talk over the table with friends over a glass of whisky, where there has been no intention to advise on serious tax evasion. It is the intention that this is a matter of the continuation and that it should be a matter of intent. That is at least the idea behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144640	I'm just thanking you for the clarification. I can look forward to continuing the discussion on this proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144648	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144658	Thank you, President. The government basis presented with the formation of the new Triple Government clearly states that it wants to combat tax evasion and that it is unacceptable for someone to cheat the community. The motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten, which deals with the provision of advice on serious tax evasion, calls for a paragraph which will strike down when someone makes tax advice on gross tax fraud. It is so similar that all parties should, if not support the motion for a resolution, at least support the intentions. The Left supports the intentions of the motion for a resolution and we look forward to the work of the committee. Preben Bang Henriksen report, all it takes to get the drill out, what we can do to avoid tax evasion, and strike down on those who advise in that direction. However, as far as the slightly more specific new paragraph is concerned, we will also have to find out what is in relation to the work under way under the Tax Law Council and what is in relation to sanctions in relation to current legislation. I am sure that will be clarified with a view to achieving the goal that everyone wants, namely to get down on advice on serious tax evasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144909	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206144930	Thank you. The motion for a resolution seeks to criminalise the advice on gross tax evasion independently. Under the current rules, it is illegal to contribute to gross tax evasion, just as it is illegal to contribute to all kinds of other crimes. However, the authors believe that the burden of proof is too difficult to lift and that the prosecution has had too little focus on prosecuting advisers. In relation to how difficult it is to lift the burden of proof, the points made in the proposal read that the proposers make it clear, and I quote, that even if the actual tax evasion is not detected, it cannot be proved, implemented or attempted, or the relationship between advice and a specific tax evasion is unclear or difficult to prove, the quotation is over. How this is to be understood, of course, the proposers must explain, but it does not sound quite as if the Enhedslisten believes that the general rule of law should apply to people who advise on tax evasion. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we believe that people who, through advice and deed, contribute to criminal acts must be punished. We fully understand the intentions of the proposal. We totally agree that you have to be punished if you advise on cheating in taxes. We find it difficult to see whether it is important to make a separate paragraph on advice on serious tax evasion. The proposers point out that there is an inappropriate behaviour of the prosecution in relation to prosecuting the counsellors. We do not know whether it will help to create new special legislation, but we hope that in committee we will be able to discuss whether this is the best way to ensure a common objective that counsellors should also be prosecuted in this kind of case.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145123	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145127	There is no question of undermining the rule of law. Let me try to give you a picture: I plan a bank robbery, make a detailed plan for it, show a map of the bank and explain about the alarm systems where the money is and how the plan is to be implemented, and pass this plan on to some robbers who are going to rob that bank. The robbers then choose not to rob the bank for various reasons, but the fact that I have advised on how to rob the bank is then the criminal • to plan a bank robbery in the same way as it is criminal to provide advice and provide the expert knowledge needed to cheat taxpayers for money. We can see that today, unfortunately, it is almost risk-free to provide such advice, not when it comes to bank robberies, but when it comes to storing money illegally in tax havens, for example. That's why we want the clarification here... a separate paragraph... which criminalizes the very doing of illegal advice. When the rapporteur hears the intentions of the proposal in this way, what does the rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145237	I fully agree that there may be grey areas, and I think we should look at that. We are in favour of this. However, I have to deal with the specific points contained in the motion for a resolution, and in particular with the fact that we must be able to punish, even if we are not trying to implement it, even if tax evasion is not even being tried out. What is the legal basis for this? Is it if the rapporteur and I are talking about something that would be nice if we could get rid of something in tax and spend the money on something else fun? It is such a hypothetical speculation that tax evasion could be avoided. Is that supposed to be a felony? Then we also know something about freedom of expression. So I think that, as it is formulated, there is at least a legal security guard in me that is sticking.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145338	What is meant by the wordings I think it is quite clearly written, but it might be clarified that if this kind of illegal advice is made and this then it turns out in a court case that for various reasons it can be difficult to prove that there have been any tax offences, but that at the same time one can very clearly prove, among other things. in the context of a leak that illegal advice has clearly taken place, but then it should be possible to go after the counsellor in that situation, even if we do not raise a case of specific tax evasion. That is the point of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145424	Well, let's take a look at it in committee. I am, in fact, fully in favour of the intention of this motion for a resolution. The reason I am taking this up is simply that I think there are some legal principles at stake, and I know that those principles, at least normally, are also at the heart of the proposers and proposers' party. So when I take it forward, it is not, in fact, to speak against the proposal, it is to flash that it is important that we have the part with which the rule of law naturally follows, including in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145450	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145500	Thank you. In line with most of the other rapporteurs who have stood up here, in the alternative, we are also very much in favour of this resolution. We fully agree with the objective of making it possible to make it a criminal offence to advise on serious tax evasion, even if that advice does not lead to action afterwards. It's not that hard to imagine a situation, I think. If e.g. a person gets advice from a bank advisor and the person who gets the advice, as such only has good intentions, but the bank advisor nevertheless advises about something that is criminal and gross tax evasion, then at least there is a situation where you have a bank advisor who has advised on something that is illegal and someone who may not want to pursue it, and then I can easily follow the intentions of this resolution that it is also being criminalised. I think there may be some ambiguity in the wording of the remarks. For we have had the same reservations as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur in terms of legal certainty. But the way I understand it, as sir. Rune Lund said just now, it is all about the fact that if you can both be punished for the advice in itself and any subsequent criminal act can be punished, then the burden of proof must of course be lifted in both places. It is clear that the burden of proof must be lifted in a situation where it is an adviser accused of advising on something that may not have led to an action, but which in itself leads to something that is illegal. But it is clear that we just need to have it in place in legal terms. That has also been our reservations. It is, after all, a question of looking at it more in committee. Another point that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also mentioned, and which we have also had as a small reservation about this, has been: what are the limits of when advice can be punishable? Is it just when you sit at the bar at night with your friends and talk about something from your work or you may not even have a license as a bank counselor, or what do I know, and come up with good ideas? Or is it in the specific situation where you sit at work and advise a customer? There are some nuances which, at least from our perspective, need to be carefully looked at. But these are, in fact, just some reservations that we have had in relation to the concrete form. We fully support the intentions of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145739	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Carl Holst, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145749	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that we are all in favour of the intentions, but now, on the one hand, the rapporteur, and on the other hand, in a question to the Minister, has made it sound • unless I have not heard properly after • as if there are no sanctions in the criminal code at all today when we talk about advice that has failed. That is not how I see section 23 of the Criminal Code. 1, which states: "The penalty clause given for an offence shall include all persons who have contributed to the deed by incitement, advice or deed. Later it says that under special circumstances it also applies when the crime has not been executed or an intended complicity has failed. Well, my point is that you shouldn't make this sound like there's nothing about it at all today. And it is in this light that I am a little concerned to say that I support the intentions, but let us now get to work in committee; let us not think that this is a question of a new paragraph now. It already says so. However, as far as the scope is concerned, there is something that suggests that we need to make it sharper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206145906	That is why I put a question to the Minister before. It was, in fact, a clear question as to what the mandate is actually in the criminal code today. But I just think that in the wording there is a contribution to which, as Mr. Carl Holst mentions that this should be a case which is either a concrete attempt at gross tax evasion or a concrete example of gross tax evasion. And in that process, that is. In that evidence, you can also punish the counselor. However, in a situation where an adviser has given advice to a person who has chosen not to do more about it, but maybe has recorded it on tape. Let's just say that you have evidence that there has been advice on something that in itself would be criminal, if you did it, then it is a different situation, because then there is no other case; there is no prosecution of a person who has committed serious tax evasion. In this situation, as I understand it, we cannot now be prosecuted and, as I understand Enhedslisten's proposal, that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150017	Paragraph 23 states precisely. 1, when you can be subject to punishment, you have to know, among other things, when you can be subject to punishment. can, when the crime is not executed, so it is in today. It is incredibly important that we signal to civil society that we are hitting hard on this, but, on the other hand, we must also be careful not to give the impression that it is more laissez-faire than it is. That is just what my introduction was about, because I saw that the rapporteur had now given the impression a few times that even if you advised, it would not be punishable if it had not been enforced. But we're gonna get to the end of this by mutual help.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150105-2	I think that too, and I think that we just need some experts to help us understand the paragraphs in detail. Because in the wording that the crime is not executed, there is at least as I read it, a desire to commit a crime that can then be prosecuted. Then it's the thing about where the line is between, when you start something and when you don't start anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150129	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150133	I would like to express my gratitude for the proposal and I very much agree with the comments made by the rapporteur in his dialogue with Mr Beazley. Carl Holst. It is also about the fact that, with the practice we are seeing today, it is risk-free to provide the expertise needed to ensure that tax evasion and tax evasion can be implemented at all. Well, it's an unsustainable situation that there are some people who are lawyers, accountants and bankers who might be able to do this advice, and that they can sit and do it and make a lot of money on it and save many billions of dollars away, at least millions of dollars, depending on the case, and then nothing really happens about it. This suggests that there is a need for some kind of clarification both in relation to the letter of the law and in relation to it itself, as well as to stick it out in a separate paragraph, that there is something we should be aware of here, because there are currently some people who should be punished should go to prison but who should not go to prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150232	We fully agree with that, and that is why we support the intention of this motion for a resolution. There are, of course, some edges that we need to define, because when, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is, for example, that we should be able to define. Do it when you're at work etc. One thing is that there are gaps in the legislation that can be exploited, but it is not a criminal offence, because we have not yet discovered them; they may be so in the long term. It's a situation. Something else is that you definitely advise on something that's criminal. And I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is deeply, deeply morally reprehensible that, by virtue of your profession, you have this knowledge and use it against our society as a whole, that is, our entire welfare society. So I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150326	Yes, let us look at it in committee to see how we can possibly clarify these things. I am, of course, very sympathetic to that, because I think it is a very good idea. I just have one addition. We can do one of those things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the company timber cases that have been carried out, banks have been sentenced to pay back a great deal of money, but, as far as I know and can read, there has not been a single adviser sentenced to prison, and this is partly due to the fact that cases of financial crime are being reduced. In fact, it turns out that counsellors are like being cut off and that they are like being spared prison sentences in the cases that are running. And it is, of course, an unsustainable situation that there are people who contribute to crime in this way, but who, in fact, are hardly ever punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150416	I fully agree, and we would very much like to take a look at it in the subsequent committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150421	Thank you to Carolina Magdalene Maier. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150427	Thank you. We are also very positive about the intention of the proposal. But, like some of the others who have been up here, there are also outstanding questions for us, especially those relating to legal certainty for these advisers. But we think it's an exciting key to get out of. Because it will also send a signal, or what you would call it, to the police that one can also investigate such that the focal point of the investigation is those who have advised many different companies, rather than that it is the individual tax evasion case or the company that has caused the tax evasion to be investigated. That, of course, is another way of turning a case, which might in fact be at least as effective when it comes to curbing this problem. It is quite right from the Enhedslisten and I think it is an extremely relevant proposal that no advisors have been punished, and that is why the legal situation we are currently in is not good enough. There have been some comments from up here from the platform, including from the government parties and the minister. The Minister explained some work which in some way affects the issue. The rapporteur of the Left was delighted at the committee's reading, in which he also looked forward to clarification. So in the light of that one could consider whether instead of making a report and encouraging the Minister of Justice to map out the options that are available today, and perhaps we could work on some cases, or what do I know? We will certainly be very positive about this, because it is a direction we would like to take. However, we would like to be a little clearer about the legal issues, and it is of course also about what opportunities we have today, whether the opportunities are really there, or at least whether they are there to a greater extent than we may think, but are not being used sufficiently out there in practice. So this is absolutely something we would like to continue to work on, and I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for having put forward this proposal. Because, as I said before, there is a gap here, and whether it is practice or legislation that is the problem, I hope that we can get an overview of the further work of the committee, either in a report or in a report, but it is certainly an important matter for us too. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150706	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150713	It's just to join on behalf of my party's rapporteur in this field. Whether we call it one or the other is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that, as part of this, we also find out what tools are available today in terms of punishing people who have helped clients with tax evasion. And how much is happening today? So, is Mogens Glistrup the only one who has been convicted of it, or are there other examples, and are there anything in the current legislation that prevents it from being struck down? It was not a joke, it was to help the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150802	Thank you. I would just like to say a few words about demarcation. This is clearly one of the things we have been aware of and seem to be problematic. But I think that there is a very clear and obvious dividing line in relation to some of the examples that have been mentioned from up here, i.e. whether you can be punished because you sit with your friend and talk about taxes at a bar at night. I mean, I don't think it's so hard to make a reasonable definition. After all, it is about companies that build a business base on advising on tax havens, in other words where you make money from it. And I don't think that's so hard to clarify. There may be a great many other issues that need to be clarified before one dares to go this way. We are very positive, but we cannot support the resolution as such, but we would very much like to see further work done.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150858	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150910	There is a good reason why the penal framework goes as far as 8 years, because tax evasion is a gross criminal act. But so far it has apparently been possible to hit only actual company timbers and the like. In the SF's view, advice on tax evasion is an independent criminal act which we must find ways to make easier to punish. The SF supports the motion for a resolution and it was not so difficult to achieve it, because we ourselves have had a largely identical proposal in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150949	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206150957	Let that be said straight away: tax evasion must be combated, and so must the involvement of advisers in serious tax evasion. It is morally reprehensible to cheat on taxes because it undermines our common institutions and our well-being. It may be that the tax is too high, and that is a completely different matter, but our society and what we share are also dependent on everyone contributing. The leaks of tax evasion that we have seen over recent years have been very unbelievable, see for example. On the Panama papers. Tax evasion has proved to be so extensive that there is a need to say time and again that tax evasion is totally unacceptable and must be condemned, and to examine again and again whether the legislation is strong enough in this area. It is therefore very fair that gross tax evasion is linked to a high penalty of as many as eight years. So we have great sympathy for the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution and we agree with the intentions and that this is something that must be combated. The question is whether specific legislation is needed. We are unsure of this, but we are open to finding out in committee that there are other tools available to combat this monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206151129	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206151150	In connection with the large Panama leak, it has been revealed how Danish banks have had intensive cooperation with the Panama-based company Mossack Fonseca on the creation of companies for tax havens. It once again points to the vital importance of counsellors for the existence and continuation of harmful tax evasion. And that is where we see that banks, audit firms and lawyers are at the heart of maintaining continued tax evasion. That is where we see banks, accountants and lawyers being able to provide the expertise, the know-how needed to ensure that tax evasion and tax fraud actually take place. Today counsellors can be punished for complicity in serious tax evasion under Section 289 of the Criminal Code. So the criminal code already contains a provision which means that gross tax evasion can be punished by up to 8 years in prison. But we have, for example. In the case of large company timber cases, it is apparent that there has been no punishment for counsellors in this respect. And it is probably because involvement can be difficult to prove, but probably also because the prosecution is cutting matters and thus not focusing on prosecuting the counsellors. When no advisors are convicted; when it is almost risk-free to advise on these illegal practices and provide the expert knowledge needed for tax fraud to take place; and when good money can be made at the same time to help with tax havens, for example, then an incentive will be created to continue the profitable advice on tax evasion, that is, for accountants, banks and lawyers. There are often debates about punishments here in the Folketing. From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we are often sceptical about an approach called punishment with punishment and the tightening of penalties, because we are of the opinion that there must be a documented effect of higher penalties actually working. However, we do know that when it comes to crime that is planned, well thought out and organised, both the level of punishment and the risk of discovery have a preventive effect. And that is why, in this light, it is also extremely problematic that gross tax evasion or, in particular, advice on it may appear to be almost impunity-free. It is also the clear view of the Enhedslisten that both gross tax evasion and profit making from advising others on how it can be implemented are outrageous and socially damaging. And it is in itself offensive to the sense of justice of all of us who work hard every day and pay taxes that accountants, bankers and lawyers can look up to advise on tax evasion and then also go free when they actually help large companies or individuals avoid paying taxes. What this motion for a resolution means, and we can see if we can clarify this in the context of the work of the committee; I think that is a very good idea, as I have also explained in some of the brief remarks I have had the opportunity to make during today's debate, is that we will have a separate provision in the criminal code, which independently criminalises advice on serious tax evasion. This provision must make it clear that, even if no specific tax evasion is discovered, it cannot be proved, implemented or attempted, or even if the link between the advice and a specific tax evasion is unclear or difficult to prove. It must therefore focus on the very aspect of advice, regardless of what criminal action this illegal advice may lead to or may not lead to. I believe that this will make a significant contribution to the idea that those advisers who today earn good money from providing advice on gross tax evasion will think twice about it. Because there is a penalty of up to eight years in prison, but if there is no risk of ever being convicted, then the penalty can be as high as it has to be. We are trying to clarify with this proposal that it is important also to look at the people who contribute the expert knowledge that is needed for this to happen at all. This is what can then be called an accelerated enforcement element, which means that a intent is what is behind this idea of advising on gross tax evasion becomes criminal, but that it is not a condition for punishment that this evasion is actually made or attempted by the customer. In short, advice on serious tax evasion is an independent criminal act that can be punished. And we want to make that clear. This will also make it clear that the advice itself on how to avoid paying taxes illegally is not acceptable and that it is a criminal offence and a clear signal is sent to the prosecution that priority must also be given to infringements of this provision. I have noted in today's debate that there is a majority in favour of this proposal. There are some things that can be clarified in the committee's work on the burden of proof, on the intention and I would very much like to enter into a dialogue on whether there are some wordings in the motion for a resolution that can help us on our way there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206151810	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206151814	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. One of the things I noticed when the Minister of Justice gave the government's view on the matter was what was in the government's constitution about a criminal code commission. There I am interested to hear what Enhedslisten thinks of the Government's wish for it, also because, as I understand it, they seem to be trying to punish more severely when it comes to the perilous crime, but maybe they do not move nearly so much in this area. How does Enhedslisten feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206151847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206151848	In general terms, we feel the same way with regard to punishments, as I also explained in my rapporteur's speech, that we do not, in principle, object to the sharpening of penalties. But we would also like to see it documented that the punishments are actually going to work, that is to say that they are going to prevent more crime, and that is also why we are focusing precisely in this context on something that is a tightening. After all, we know that the level of punishment, if it is a crime that is planned and well organised and considered, actually has a significance, whereas if we talk about things that are committed in crime, or things that are most often committed because people are under the influence of drugs or alcohol, it will not have an impact on preventing crime, it will raise the penalty, but it will mean that more people will go to prison. In general, we think it is good that we have a legal system in Denmark where few people are in prison compared to the population, whereas in a country like the United States, if we compare it, we are nearing 1%. of the population in prison. In Denmark it is only about 70-75 people per year. 100,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152008	Some of what we have voted for in the past, when it comes to tightening up the penalties for perilous crime, has, of course, been the normal punishment. I would like to ask: does the Enhedslisten, in connection with the motion for a resolution here for advice and helping with gross tax evasion, have any indications as to what a normal punishment might be for breaking those rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152034	I don't have that right up here from Parliament's platform. The penalty framework is eight years old, and there is no proposal in this proposal to increase the penalties, for example. 10 years. Our starting point is that the penalty framework is actually quite high. We would like to be willing to discuss this, but our starting point is actually that 8 years of prison is quite a long time, even when you know what a prison is. It's not a luxury experience to be in prison. So if there is in fact a risk of discovery that is worth something and that matters, then I think that the risk of being able to go to prison for eight years will be sufficient to prevent people from embarking on advice of this nature, which the motion for a resolution wants to limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152127	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. No one else has any comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152146	The debate is open and the first is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152208	Thank you. As can be seen from the government base, Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order with respect for human rights. We want to enter into active international cooperation and we want to comply with the international conventions which Denmark has signed up to. That said, conventions are not unchangeable. They are the expression of political negotiations and compromises, which is why it is also important that we are not afraid of touching, but rather that we are willing to discuss and challenge the conventions when needed. This also applies to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Government agrees with the proposers that there is a need to look critically at the dynamic interpretation which over the years has brought the scope of the Convention out of line with the original intentions. That discussion is one of them. relevant in relation to the expulsion area, where the practice of the Court of Human Rights is of great importance for Denmark's ability to expel criminal aliens. The government has therefore decided to place the issue of reform of the European Convention on Human Rights on the international agenda. We will do so when Denmark takes over the Presidency of the Council of Europe next year. We have already set up a task force in the Ministry of Justice with the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has started preparing that work. We will work to reform the European human rights system, so that, among other things, we can do something about it. will have a better balance between the protection of human rights and our ability, as a democracy, to decide for ourselves how we will organise our society. This is an ambitious and difficult project, because it will certainly not be an easy matter to get 47 Member States to agree. But we are convinced that other countries see some of the same challenges as us, and fortunately we do not start from scratch. A reform debate is already under way among the Member States of the Council of Europe. The motion for a resolution calls for the repeal of the so-called incorporation law. It is a 1992 law that incorporates the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law. The proposal is justified by the fact that Denmark can thus take a step back from the meaning of the Convention in Danish law. It is also proposed that Denmark should make a reservation about the Convention on Human Rights. In concrete terms, Denmark must withdraw from the Convention on Human Rights and then rejoin with a reservation regarding the possibility of expelling foreigners. But is that the answer? you could ask. Is the repeal of the incorporation law and a reservation on the human rights convention viable solutions to the challenges we face in the area of the convention, including in relation to the expulsion of criminal foreigners? In the view of the government, the short answer is no. I'd like to explain why. Let me begin by explaining why the repeal of the incorporation law is not a snapshot solution. The repeal of the incorporation law, whatever is stated in the motion for a resolution, will not change the fact that Denmark will continue to be obliged to comply with the Convention on Human Rights, and we will also continue to be obliged to bring Danish legislation into line with the Convention and the practice of the Court of Human Rights. Although the incorporation law is repealed, the Convention on Human Rights will still be enforceable and applied by the Danish courts and other authorities. It will only be applied in accordance with the so-called rules of interpretation and presumption. Therefore, in relation to the decision on specific cases, the repeal of the incorporation law would have a very limited legal significance. It is not possible to point to any cases where the incorporation law has made a difference in relation to the application of the Convention on Human Rights by the courts. In addition, Denmark will be able to continue to be brought before the European Court of Human Rights and Denmark will be legally obliged to follow the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. The repeal of the incorporation law would therefore not really be a solution to the challenges posed by the European Convention on Human Rights. Then there is the proposal to withdraw from the Convention on Human Rights and then rejoin with a reservation on Article 8 of the Convention. Here I have to point out what I said in my introduction: basically, Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order. Therefore, Denmark must also comply with the conventions to which Denmark subscribes. We must recognise the established framework for discussing and finding common solutions to the challenges we face with the international conventions. In the end, one-off alternative or unilateral solutions can set a precedent for a policy that will not be in Danish interest at all, namely that we will no longer be able to rely on what other countries are committed to. Specifically, it is not as simple as it might seem, just stepping out to rejoin with a reservation. Such a solution provides, among other things, for: This is a matter for the Court of Justice of the European Communities to decide on a case-by-case basis. In fact, it is a widespread international assessment that it would be contrary to Treaty law to terminate the Convention solely for the purpose of rejoining with a declaration or reservation. So let me sum up the position of the government: we basically agree that there are the challenges described in the resolution in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why the government will also place the issue of modernising the European Convention on Human Rights on the international agenda during the forthcoming Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. On the other hand, we do not agree that the two concrete measures proposed in the motion for a resolution neither the repeal of the incorporation law nor a model in which Denmark withdraws from the European Convention on Human Rights with a view to rejoining with a reservation are sustainable solutions to the challenges we face with the Convention. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152834	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152842	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I found an old blog post, which means it's not that old, because it's about six months old, and it was something the Minister of Justice wrote before he became Minister of Justice, and it's about Gimi Levakovic, and I allow myself to read out: 'They've written and it must be understood as Mr. Søren Pind and Mrs Inger Løvberg are key figures in this, and it is the Left alone that has the power of government. And I want to see action... not angry words from ministers on TV. It had to be understood that it was because this gypsy boss had to be thrown out of Denmark. Now the Left is no longer alone in the power of government; now the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have entered the government. That is why I would like to ask you because I very much agree with what the Minister wrote in that blog post six months ago, and I think I even wrote something that reminded me of the fact that when the Minister expects the rules to be changed so that we can get rid of people who are as deep criminals as the Gypsy boss, who have 28 convictions for criminal offences behind them. When can we expect this proposal to affect the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206152956	Thank you. I believe that the questioner and I fully share the frustration about the particular case that was mentioned. Now something must also be done, and that is what I said in my speech, that, precisely in our Presidency of the Council of Europe, we will try to speed up the revision of the Convention. I made it very clear in my speech that it doesn't help to say that we will abolish the incorporation law because it can be used, that is to say it can be used by the courts anyway. I want to do something, and I am also frustrated by the individual case in question, but I must also say that the whole legal order cannot, of course, depend on one case and that is why we are frustrated. After all, there was a judgment last week which I think we are all pleased to hear, when there was a ruling from the same court that said that the criminals in question were not entitled to return to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153055	The questioner? No. The next brief remark is from Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153102	It's very good that the Minister of Justice is so boldly shooting down our proposal. Now it was meant to be a proposal. I need a little something to say about what the government wants, that is, a really nagging promise that the government is actually going to do something about this. What interests us is not, in fact, this convention. It can in fact be of no concern to us. What interests us is whether Denmark can pursue an independent policy in this area where it is Danish law that applies. That, in fact, is what matters. The government can then find out different things. Now we have been so willing to make a proposal. But if the government has other bids, that's fine. We just want something done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153152	I think we certainly share that ambition. I didn't mean to be squeaky. The challenge is a little that there is a resolution, and I have to deal with that on behalf of the government. So I'm just saying that it won't help to abolish the incorporation law in this context. We have a process going on and we have said that, when we have the Presidency of the Council of Europe, we will be blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. Try to change it there. In addition, we are working in the current government, and the previous government also did so by the questioner, and also the author's party, to make some restrictions that allow us to get rid of people who do not want to live in this country and comply with the rules that we have and are criminals. I'm ready to do everything I can to make sure that those who don't want to follow the law and the law of this kingdom aren't here. But we just have to be able to do it in a way so that international courts do not send them back afterwards. We must have a common interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153254	Then it might be that the Minister would reveal what the government's plans are, because what I could understand in Mr. Søren Pind, the former Minister of Justice, was to look at the interpretation that exists among judges of the European Court of Human Rights. I think that is very doubtful, because can we go in and impose a certain interpretation on a court of law? I would consider that to be quite problematic. But what I could then imagine was that we were then working to have the text changed, or at least to have some clarification added, which means that the chapter 8, which among other things. is about the right to family life, is to be understood in a very specific context, which was also the intention of this chapter from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153344	That is also what I tried to embrace at the beginning of my speech by saying that, in the view of the government, there has also been a slippage in how this is interpreted. And that is why we have the task force, both in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to prepare the work until we get the Presidency of the Council of Europe, to try to change this. The fact that we saw in the Ministry of Justice, in the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and in many other places can take a whole series of measures that allow people who are criminals and do not want to conform to this society to be deported is another discussion, but right now I have to deal with the motion for a resolution that is here, but otherwise I think we share the desire that those who do not want Denmark not be in Denmark either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153429	The next is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153433	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. What I would like to challenge a little is that the Minister himself says from the platform, and I quite agree with that that one should not change the legal basis on the basis of a single case. Now the Danish People's Party's comments on this motion for a resolution state that there are a number of Supreme Court judgments that we have been overturned on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights. I would really like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is aware of the number of convictions involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153513	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153516	Thank you. I will then go ahead with this in a written question, because there should be no doubt that the alternative is of the opinion that, of course, the European Convention on Human Rights has followed over time. You can also see that, for example, there is a difference between the two. 16 additional protocols have been concluded subsequently. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not agree with this, and that is what I heard the Minister say in the way that we should not amend a human rights convention on the basis of individual cases. As the Minister also mentioned from the platform, we have just been successful in being able to expel a strong criminal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153554	I agree with that. May I begin by saying that when I just said no before, it was not to try to avoid me or something like that, it was simply because I would not be able to answer otherwise, because I simply do not know it just to emphasise it. Then I very much agree that such individual cases can well frustrate many of us, and I must be honest and say that the person referred to earlier has frustrated me deeply, but I do not think that it should be on the basis of individual cases. That is why I was so pleased with the verdict that fell last week, after which a gang criminal must be in Lebanon and not in Denmark. I think there is cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153637	The next brief remark is from Mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153643	Thank you. I took note of the fact that the Minister for Justice, and congratulations on the new work, said that it made no difference whether or not the European Convention on Human Rights had been incorporated into Danish law. I should just like to understand whether it really is the point of view that it does not really matter whether something is in Danish legislation or not in Danish legislation, because I think that is a rather funny point from a conservative minister to take. If it is adopted by the Folketing, it means a little more, of course, than if it is not adopted by the Folketing and not written into the legislation. If, however, the Minister acknowledges that it actually matters whether it is in Danish law or not, what is actually the argument that it should be in that legislation if it is the case that the Minister agrees with the Danish People's Party? can the Minister reply to that fact that it actually has a meaning and that it will be given less weight if it is not in Danish law? That is actually a very good argument for doing so and thus ensuring that everything else equal will be easier to enforce the expulsion rules, which have been adopted by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153739	I think that is what I said now, so I have some doubts as to whether the questioner has heard the wrong thing or whether I have expressed myself unclearly. What I said very clearly was that the repeal of the incorporation law would have a very limited legal significance, because the courts would then be able to look at two other areas which could then be used as an argument for judging. If we simply say goodbye to the incorporation law, then it is not the case that we no longer have an obligation to the Court of Human Rights. In other words, this is just what I am dealing with in relation to the motion for a resolution. That's all there was in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153828	It becomes more directly binding on the courts, etc., to the Danish authorities when it is in the legislation than if it is not in the legislation. Then it will be more guiding for judgments rather than being directly binding on the courts. So there is a difference between whether something is in Danish legislation or not in Danish legislation, and I think that the Minister for Justice should say it more clearly. Furthermore, if the government agrees with the Danish People's Party that the interpretation of the conventions has gone too far, it has become too difficult to demonstrate, it will send a very strong signal if the European Convention on Human Rights is suddenly written out of, for example, the expulsion rules. Then it may be that you still cross it, leaning on it, but it will send a very powerful signal if you take it out. One final question very quickly: if it turns out that there is only one country among the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe that disagrees with the line taken by the Danish Government, then that is not the reality; everyone has to say yes and what is the government's plan B?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206153922	To take the first point, I would like to say that repealing the incorporation law, whatever the wording of the motion for a resolution, will not change the obligation to respect the Convention on Human Rights, whatever we think. So you can have some frustrations about whether it is really fair and then you can do some other things. The questioner is right to say that it is 47 countries that have to agree, but my impression is that more countries share our challenges, and before we give up and talk about Plan B, I would say that it will weaken us to start talking about Plan B enormously before Plan A has ever been implemented. I have a hope and a belief that we can do something here, because I actually believe that the questioner and I share the wish that those who do not want Denmark should not be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154013	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for this round. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154024	Thank you. For social democracy, human rights are both important and right. We believe that the European Convention on Human Rights is beneficial in a world where, unfortunately, too many people's fundamental rights are being kidnapped. That is why we do not support the resolution we are debating here today either. It is a motion for a resolution which will require the government to repeal the European Convention on Human Rights and require the government to take the initiative to terminate the European Convention on Human Rights and then rejoin the Convention with a reservation. We think that would be a very, very bad idea. Having said that, we recognise that international conventions have been written at a different time, that they stem from a different reality from the reality and the world we are living in today, and that is why we in the Social Democrat Party are prepared to challenge the approach and interpretation of international conventions just as the government is. In fact, we believe it is important that human rights and the Court of Human Rights retain their democratic and national legitimacy, and that is what they do best if we take these discussions openly. For social democracy, it is essential that we ensure that the scope of our international commitments makes sense in relation to the reality we are in today, so that we can organise our society in the way we think it should be organised, and so that we can address major challenges such as terrorist acts and refugee and migrant flows, while remaining within the framework of our international commitments. This is the balance we are constantly seeking to find. We have noted that the government also sees a need to look critically at the way in which the dynamic interpretation of the Court of Human Rights has extended the order of the European Convention on Human Rights, and we support that and we follow the work closely and help as much as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154234	Thank you, too. There is no brief comment to Mr. Dan Jørgensen. So we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and his name is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154255	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that we in the Left recognise, of course, that there is good reason for a healthy debate on the European Convention on Human Rights. We must be critical and we must be ready to discuss the conventions as we know them today. We have said that before the elections, and that is what we are saying today. To put it mildly, there is nothing as frustrating as when a Danish court cannot expel a person, for example. Because of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, even if you wish to do so under Danish law. These are criminals who typically have no interest in integrating into Danish society; people who want to hide behind conventions, we have no interest in protecting. If you read the government basis properly, you will also find that the government is looking at this issue. As the Minister said, work is already under way in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the government's basis clearly indicates that the government intends to hold an international conference of experts on the Convention as part of the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. I would therefore like to state that the Left shares the view that we should look critically at the conventions. But the Left does not share the view that the content of the resolution is the way forward. We cannot support the repeal of the incorporation law today, as we want a deeper analysis of our options for action. The Left is pleased with the work that the government has already started, and so I can say that we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154436	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154441	Well, I think it would suit the Left to be a little more cooperative. I am aware that the government has promised to go into work on this, but I think that there could be some more fundamental considerations in relation to the answer given, so what is the intention of the European Convention on Human Rights? Is it the rapporteur's view that the interpretation or amendment of the text will be undermined? You can, of course, because it is a politically agreed document. It should, of course, be possible to do as with all sorts of other political texts that we can of course change this. It is just to ask the rapporteur to lift the veil so that the rest of us can get a little smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154531	It is precisely our ability to act that we want to look at. That is why we are not just throwing ourselves into rushed legislation; that is why we want a proper analysis of this. I think it is also very interesting what the Minister has said here today, namely that the incorporation law does not so if we embark on what is being proposed here, in other words make a rapid change to the law without knowing whether it actually solves the problem, then perhaps this will lead to a failure to solve the problem at all. That is why we say that we want a proper, thorough analysis of what our options are.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154605	Well, that's okay, then. Now I agree with my party colleague, sir. Martin Henriksen, in that the incorporation law, that is, the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law, must have a meaning. This was something the alternative did not mention at all, and it seems to me that one does not matter, but I do not really think it matters whether it is Danish law that applies in this country. And that means, for example, that... Levakovic would be expelled according to the rules that we have here in Denmark. That is perfectly reasonable. If you want to beat the drum for human rights, I think it's gibberish to do it in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154648	Thank you. But that is actually exactly what I said in my speech, so I think it is very frustrating if you apply Danish law and if a Danish court wishes to expel a person but cannot do so because of a convention, then we have a problem. And that is the whole reason why we have written into the government base that we will look critically at the interpretation. Our approach, as the Minister also mentioned, is that if we can do so in cooperation with the other 47 countries, then that is an advantage. And if we can't, then we'll have to see what else is possible. But plan one should be doing this in cooperation with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154723	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. Well, that's the ride to sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206154735	After all, much policy is about compensating for disadvantages. This is also the case in this case where the Danish People's Party proposes that Denmark should separate itself from the European Convention on Human Rights. There are undoubtedly some advantages to this. We can, for example. get rid of a couple of criminal personalities who may have foreign passports, but who have lived almost all their lives in Denmark. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If the person named by the Danish People's Party in his motion for a resolution is that he has lived the last 44 years out of his 46-year life here in Denmark. The first two years of the person's life, moreover, he lived in a quite different country from that in the passport which he carries and which I suppose the proposers will try to have him deported. A more vicious person than me might argue that a person's criminal behaviour lies neither in the genes nor in the passport, but in the upbringing, and since it has mainly been carried out or should we say: not worked in Denmark, the country of the paedophile might argue that it is really more Denmark's problem than theirs. But let's just leave it alone. Let us also look at the drawbacks of withdrawing or breaking away from the European Convention on Human Rights. Because if a country like Denmark separates itself from the Convention, we must take as a starting point that all other countries are entitled to the same thing and even use Denmark's action as an argument for doing so. These may be countries such as the United States. Turkey, where Islamism is becoming more and more widespread, and where the television hosts of the state dictated, Erdogan dictated, television is being covered, etc., and it can be Russia and Azerbaijan. And if we can choose which parts of the Convention on Human Rights we do not want to follow, then I suppose everyone else can also choose which parts they do not want to follow. I'm already predicting which ones. Russia will separate itself from the duty of freedom of expression. Turkey will detach itself from the obligation not to execute prisoners. Erdogan has already announced this. And Azerbaijan will detach itself from the ban on torture. Or all three countries will choose a combination of all three parts to separate themselves from. What a party we get: more censorship, more death penalty, more torture. It may come anyway, but it will surely happen without us having any opportunity to object to it either when it hits the citizens of the countries themselves or when it hits Danish citizens who, for some very innocent reason, fall into the hands of these regimes. It can, for example, be done. be a lorry driver who does his job, or a tourist who, yes, is just a tourist. The Danish People's Party's proposal is basically about which Europe we are fighting for. In the Enhedslisten, we are fighting for binding human rights for everyone, even if there is a corner or two and there is no doubt; I could mention the exclusive clauses if anyone wants to hear about one of the problems I have with them where we might want it differently. If we really want to make changes, then the way is to propose a reinterpretation of the conventions or an additional protocol and then obtain a majority for it. Anything but doing so would be to be the errand boy for authoritarian regimes such as Russia, Turkey and Azerbaijan. It seems that there are parties in the Folketing that will take on that role. The Enhedslisten does not want this, and we therefore reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155206	There are a few brief comments. I think sir... Christian Langballe has pressed Mr. Carsten Kudsk's button, but he needs to speak anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155224	Oh, yeah! It reminds me of something... well, I'm not a global hallelujah humanist like Mr. Søren Søndergaard. I think most people recognize that. But I also believe that, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard comes up with some talk • ideological pluralities and phrases. We can do it just as we want. What I would like to do is to ensure that fair and reasonable action is taken; that Danish legislation is followed. It is objectively true, even in a legal sense, that what Levakovic has done deserves expulsion. I don't want him in this country. He's been milking the municipal coffers for millions. In fact, we have just had something with regard to advice on tax evasion, which Enhedslisten took extremely seriously. But the fact that a big fraudster simply milks the municipal coffers for millions and drives around in big cars, you don't care. I am just not, and I think it must be fair that we demand that Danish legislation applies in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155343	Of course it is Danish legislation that will apply in this country. That's why people who commit crime have to go to jail. It's as simple as that. They must be accused, judged and punished. They're going to jail. With Mr. Christian Langballe does not relate to the problem, if we take the person concerned as an example, that he has actually spent 44 out of 46 years of his life in Denmark. So you have to ask: what is it that makes us say that this is the problem of some others? And where's the limit? Should we also take descendants and descendants of descendants? There are probably some in Argentina that we can get sent to the head because their ancestors were Danes. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155441	But then I'll try to get Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard to understand. That's what's good about this debate. It is so simple that Levakovic would have been expelled if it had not been because of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which deals with the right to family life. That's what we're discussing. This means that according to Danish law it would have been possible to expel him if it had not been because the European Convention on Human Rights had sabotaged Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155529	Now I find it difficult to say that the European Convention on Human Rights has sabotaged anything in that we have signed it ourselves. It is, of course, with our own acceptance and our own goodwill. That is why I understand that the Danish People's Party wants to get rid of it. That's not what I'm questioning. The Danish People's Party wants to get rid of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is the view of the Danish People's Party. What I'm just saying is that it's not Enhedslisten's point of view. Enhedslisten disagrees. And we are therefore looking at what the consequences of the Danish People's Party's policy will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155602	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155603	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I can, of course, follow the argument a little along the way, but we just feel that in the Danish People's Party, if there is a chance that we can get rid of some people who have repeatedly violated Danish law, committed a lot of crime, and there are a lot of victims of that crime, then we should use that opportunity to get rid of them. What I am really thinking about is that after this speech, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has held, what really is the answer to the victims of crime, who are looking at the fact that there is a perpetrator that we can demonstrate, but then we cannot, because we have signed some international conventions? Isn't that a problem? There I would say that we have conventions which take too much account of the person who commits crime and do not take enough account of those who are exposed to crime. Surely they can expect that if society can get rid of the criminals, then society does.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155659	I believe that the sense of justice of the victims must be guaranteed by the punishment given to the perpetrator. And it doesn't matter whether it's a person from Croatia who happens to have gotten a Danish passport, or it's a person who has spent 44 out of 46 years of his life in Denmark without getting a Danish passport. I think that the punishment should be the same, and I think that punishment should give the victims justice. I do not understand a view that is that we should have more justice and more restoration as a victim, because the person we have been subjected to has been attacked by does not happen to have a Danish passport. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155748	But then I just want to hear this for the sake of understanding whether it is Enhedslisten's view that everyone coming from outside and into Denmark is to be regarded as being equal to Danish citizens in all respects, largely. So it is not just a question of conventions, it is a fundamental political disagreement that is, if everyone who comes from outside considers us to be equal to Danish citizens, even if there is a possibility that in some cases we can get rid of people who are very criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155816	No, well, of course it has something to do with how long people have been here. This, of course, has something to do with who is responsible. I understand that sir. Martin Henriksen and his party in this case will send a person back to a country in which the person has never stayed. What responsibility does that country have? I just ask: what responsibility does that country have for a person who has never been in that country? I think that's something other than people who happen to come by. But what I have concentrated on here is what the consequences of the method proposed by the Danish People's Party will be for the connection to the European Convention on Human Rights, and I have also set out a different method if you want to make the Convention on the Convention on Human Rights and the Danish People's Party can then follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155902	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206155918	Thank you. With this resolution, the European Convention on Human Rights will be repealed. This is because, in a number of areas, it is not possible to organise the Danish refugee and asylum policy in a way that a large part of the Folketing would like, for example. in relation to the expulsion of criminals. The Liberal Alliance is very much in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution on the problems raised by the proposal. We also think that the protection of criminal foreigners is too great and that the conventions too narrow what a democratic majority can decide. Conversely, we in the Liberal Alliance can see the point of having a strong international legal order. That is why we must always weigh up Denmark's interest in being able to conduct a sensible foreign and asylum policy in relation to not undermining 60 years of human rights work. The Government has indicated that it will work to reform the conventions in the direction that the proposers also want. This must be done in conjunction with the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. And in the Liberal Alliance we are convinced that many other European countries must have experienced the same challenges as Denmark and that there must therefore be a common interest in finding a better balance. At the same time, we note that the repeal of the incorporation law does not remove the legal effect of the European Convention on Human Rights in Denmark, as the Minister for Justice also explained. Paradoxically, therefore, the resolution will have the consequence of jeopardising the international legal order without having any concrete effect in Denmark at all. Against this background, we shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160104	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160109	Thank you. I have asked for the floor because the Liberal Alliance has on several occasions proposed suspending Denmark's participation in the international conventions. I have so little doubt now whether the Liberal Alliance still thinks so, or whether it is one of these areas where you mean something else, because you have come into government, or that you mean the same thing just not those Members who are ministers now. Yeah, I'm sorry if I sound a little confused. That is because I am Perhaps the rapporteur could clarify that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160144	If sir... Dan Jørgensen is confused, it is good that we can solve the cases here so thank you for the question. It is true that the Liberal Alliance has proposed to suspend, not international conventions in general terms, but the refugee convention. And what we are dealing with here is the European Convention on Human Rights, so perhaps that is why the questioner is getting a little confused.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160205	However, I would like to ask: does the rapporteur's party still believe that the refugee convention should be suspended?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160216	It is a little off the agenda, but I would like to respond as such to the questioner. The Liberal Alliance has the positions that we have and that we have had for a long time. We had them before we came into government; we also have them when we are in government. And what is really good about sitting in the government is that the questioner knows from personal experience that you can have more influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160239	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160241	Thank you. After all, the Danish People's Party is looking forward to the government making a proposal to suspend the UN Refugee Convention. Then it will also be much easier to send refugees back home, so we will look forward to that, and if there is a deadline for that to happen, we would very much like it to be reported today. I would like to ask something about the European Convention on Human Rights. I am fully in favour of the strategy we are using, and it is good that the government has at last come to the view that we should look at whether at least we cannot interpret the convention differently and then see if we can agree with the 46 other countries in terms of putting pressure on the court. It is an exciting work, and all sorts of good luck with it, and we shall support that from the Danish People's Party. But I would also like to ask whether you are pursuing other leads, and it can also be just some thoughts that you are making with the Liberal Alliance or within the government. For example, do you want to do something like this? Is it prepared to make reservations about those parts of the Convention which are considered problematic? It may be Article 8, as Mr. Christian Langballe has also mentioned and is the article that is typically used in an attempt to prevent very criminal foreigners being expelled because they have a family life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160352	Thank you for the question, and thank you for at least such a partial statement by the Danish People's Party to support the government's strategy to reform the conventions. Then Mr. Martin Henriksen to see if it is the case that a plan B is in operation, whose plan A should not succeed, and I cannot help thinking about the fact that the Danish People's Party on another issue of international cooperation, namely whether Europol, has totally refused to work with a plan B if it was the case that Plan A should not succeed. But I can assure you, sir. Martin Henriksen that the Liberal Alliance is preoccupied with this and we have been for a long time now that the international legal order, including the European Convention on Human Rights, needs to be reformed. We think that, when it comes to this convention, it should be reformed from within. We are no less concerned about this now. It has actually been our concern for a long time, and it continues to do so, and we must work on it in the most wise way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160443	I would just like to say that, of course, the Danish People's Party supports this, we have also informed the Minister for Foreign Affairs; now a new Foreign Minister has arrived in the meantime, but we will tell the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice the great, important and important work that is to agree with the 46 other Member States. It would be very good if you could agree with them, so we will back that up. But that is why we may have some requests that we go further, and that is why I would just like to know whether the Liberal Alliance has perhaps also had some thoughts in the government about how else to break up with the conventions. For example, is it... a possibility • and it doesn't have to be a plan B, but now I'm just asking and something that the Liberal Alliance will be able to support, for example. Is there a reservation for, for example, Article 8 or other parts of the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160535	What the questioner is really insinuating is whether to adopt a disarray strategy against the conventions. Liberal Alliance doesn't think you should. The European Convention on Human Rights is absolutely fundamental in the international legal order, but the questioner and the author's party and I agree entirely with it. But we believe that when it comes to something as fundamental as human rights, it is a convention that must be reformed from within. If Denmark or other countries, which are key players when it comes to human rights and have a strong international voice, break the conventions, the alternative to the international legal order is that we have international Armageddon, and I do not think the questioner is interested in that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160622	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, now from his own seat.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160626	I would like to say one thing: there is, of course, a difference in how the conventions are perceived. We are of the opinion that these are political contractual documents which can, of course, be addressed. In other words, it would certainly be a bizarre position to take if tax legislation were to say that the tax legislation we have now had been chiseled in with cuneiform and could not be changed. It is clear that, of course, the Convention legislation can be changed at a time when reality is changing. And if you do not agree with that, then you do not agree that reality moves and demands new approaches and challenges and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160720-2	I fully agree with the questioner that the European Convention on Human Rights is not something written on stone tablets that have fallen from the sky and therefore can never be changed. Of course it can. That is also why my party is in favour of changing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160739	Well, we welcome it, and we would also like to support the Liberal Alliance in the work that is now under way, and hope that Mr. Anders Samuelsen and the Liberal Alliance are coming through with an asylum freeze; with regard to dispensing from the refugee convention, there are many good things. We look forward to that, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160808	Then we'll be happy together, and that's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160813	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206160821	Thank you. It is, of course, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to repeal the European Convention on Human Rights and to take the initiative that Denmark should have a reservation on the European Convention on Human Rights, which will ensure that the Danish Government can in future pursue the policy of aliens, for which there is a majority in the Folketing. That is what we are discussing here today. I think, in fact, that the authors of the comments on the proposal give a very precise account of what this is about. We have also heard in the comments that have been made that the Danish People's Party believes that the Convention prevents Denmark from pursuing the policy of foreigners, for which there is a majority in the Folketing. If you look at the Convention on Human Rights, you can say that we are actually at the heart of what the conventions should be, namely to protect the individual from attacks by the state. That's a lot of principle. When the rights were passed, it was with the teaching that there may be times and circumstances in which for one reason or another it is justified that a majority or a powerful regime undermines the basic rights of human beings. That is why we agreed in an international community that it is important that we commit ourselves across national borders to respect and uphold basic human rights. That is why I think it is actually worrying that we have the discussion whether we should have the opportunity to get out of the convention or to circumvent human rights. I am really, really glad that 50 years ago there was such a visionary way of putting these principles into practice and that we committed ourselves to them. I also very much agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on the subject, who just did the thought experiment that we didn't have them, and explained how things would turn out so that we could risk a downward spiral in relation to the individual countries' wishes for what human rights principles they would like to circumvent. In fact, I do not think the way the Minister for Justice explained this is correct. As I understood it, the conventions were almost cast in concrete, and that is not the case. After all, we have continually adapted the conventions, and I think that is important to keep in mind. I also think it is important to bear in mind that we have a European Court of Human Rights which, precisely here last week or last week, agreed that a person of particular criminal inclination could actually be expelled. I think that shows us that the European Court of Human Rights is also going in exactly to assess the specific cases. With regard to this Levakovic case, which I have the impression has started all this, yes, there is a legal assessment which suggests that, on the basis of family reasons, we cannot expel the person concerned. And I feel absolutely comfortable with that. Because we have a prison system and a court that has sentenced him to a Danish prison, and that is what we are doing. That is why the alternative cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161217	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161232	Thank you. The Convention on Human Rights protects human rights and fundamental freedoms. The rights contained in the Convention are civil and political rights. Thus, among other things, protection is provided. the right to life, the prohibition of torture, the prohibition of slavery and forced labour, the right to freedom and security, the right to a fair trial, no punishment without legal basis, the right to respect for private and family life, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, the right to marry and the right to an effective remedy. In addition, a number of additional protocols have been adopted listing several rights, including the protection of property rights. Upon accession to the European Convention on Human Rights, States undertake to respect and safeguard the fundamental human rights of any person within their jurisdiction. The European Convention on Human Rights may be invoked against Danish courts and administrative authorities which have an obligation to apply the Convention in line with other Danish legislation. Furthermore, the Convention allows anyone to complain to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg claiming that a Member State has infringed the rights protected by the Convention. That is how the Ministry of Justice explains to us what the European Convention on Human Rights is about. And I felt the urge to review just what kind of fundamental human rights we all gave each other in Europe in 1949 when we looked each other in the eye after World War II and said: "We will never bid each other in this again. That is basically what is at stake here, and that is why we are opposed to this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161504	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. This did not give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161522	We live in a world where we are interdependent and I think we all have an interest in rules and that there are agreements that regulate our relations with each other, even outside the borders of the country. That is why conventions have been agreed in a number of areas, including the Convention on Human Rights, which we are discussing here, but there are others as well. It is precisely because at some point there was a clear understanding that it is an advantage that we have agreements on these things rather than that it just becomes some kind of international anarchy. I think we should be glad we have. Then you can always discuss whether there are things that need to be changed, things that may be different, etc., and that discussion is good to have. But I would very much warn against beginning such a general attack on these conventions and making a very great political effort to get them lifted or to get reservations in etc. I consider this to be extremely problematic and it may also be potentially dangerous, not least for a country such as Denmark. It is true that when you are part of a convention, there are some limitations on what you can do, but there is always that when you make agreements, and there are always different relationships, both between people and between countries. But it also seems the other way round, namely that other countries are also restricted in their opportunities in relation to Denmark. It is, after all, interdependence and mutual commitments that are at stake here. I think that's important in the back of our head. We believe that there are a number of advantages to the Convention on Human Rights • benefits that not least Danes can benefit from and that people can generally benefit from. It is, in fact, important that we stick to it and that is why, of course, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161737	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, and welcome to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161746	In the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased that the new government wants to create a space to take a critical look at the conventions. The government's basis indicates that the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of Europe will be used to look at the European Convention on Human Rights. We must examine whether the European Convention on Human Rights fits the challenges of our times, and we must do so while safeguarding our part of a strong international legal order, because we also need it. That is the policy of the new government, and it is also the policy of the Conservative People's Party. I recognize that sometimes I also think that the conventions are used as a fucking bullshit, and when it is the worst, the conventions become a bad excuse for not pursuing the policy we want to pursue. However, precisely because the government wants to start critical work on the European Convention on Human Rights during the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of Europe, supporting this resolution will be a short step in the process, which is why we Conservatives cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161905	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. And then we shall conclude with the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206161934	Thank you, President. I feel like this proposal has been poured down the board. That conclusion would not be entirely wrong to draw. However, I am actually delighted that there have been some expressions that address both the seriousness of what we are discussing and also the need for a closer look at the European Convention on Human Rights. We are quite happy with this. If we haven't quite been able to feel the way we wanted it, then this is the next best thing. I believe that the conventions and some of the cases we have had have an underlying problem built in. If, for example, we do not know what to do. I believe that the Levakovic affair seems to many as if the politicians were being used as if the people's regime were being used as if we were not really able to do things the way they should be, just because international commitments are being made. I am of the opinion that it is a good thing to have international agreements. I do not think anyone here will disagree, but it is only crucial that, when it comes to Denmark and the Danes, we can grab hold of people who do everything they can to defraud, and move forward in a way that makes them milking municipal coffers, and which, by the way, is moving forward in the life of trash and scams. So I believe that Levakovic would have been expelled if it had not been because of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the right to family life, and I would actually say that I also believe that there is a problem in it. Because what is wrong with that is that the court's judgments are dynamic. In other words, they are moving in the interpretation and away from what was the basic text and the intention to end up in a completely different place, and it is highly unsatisfactory if you believe that laws must be unambiguous. It is in this way that the very foundation of a rule of law, that is to say, that laws are unambiguous and that they do not evolve, so to speak, according to how judges at the Court of Human Rights think it legitimate to interpret them so that they end up in a completely different place. There is also a question of these so-called brides-in-laws, where it has also come to light that we cannot separate them from their spouse, even if they are married when they are under 18 years of age because they are entitled to family life. There I simply believe that legislation and/or the European Convention on Human Rights are counterproductive in relation to a general legal state. So the Danish People's Party would like the European Convention on Human Rights to be looked at in detail, so that it can of course be established that we are judging by the legislation we have adopted here in the Danish Parliament and that the courts are judging by the legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament, and that is where it all ends. It is really something as simple as the Danish people's government. It is a question of the people's voice being heard and of the fact that the policy, which is the majority of the Danes, can actually be pursued and pursued. It is a question of taking the Danes' concerns seriously. It is a question of taking reality seriously, so that you have respect for the Danes and the reality in which you live. But in any case, I can finally welcome the fact that the government has indicated that it will look into this and that the Social Democrats also recognise that there is a problem with this Levakovic case. We are very pleased about that. Mrs Mette Frederiksen addressed it here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament yesterday, and we are pleased about that too. So somehow there are porridges in things, and I will be delighted about that. Then it's just one thing, that it doesn't go on talking toasts, but that something is actually happening, that it's being lifted from this fruitful and good debate to something that's concrete, and I hope so. And we want to keep the government firm that this is not just about a lot of words, but about action. So with those words, I will end. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206162419	We also thank Mr. Christian Langballe. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161206162433	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. Parliament's next meeting will be held in approx. Ten minutes, that's at 10:00. 16.35, where the agenda will start with the first reading of Bill No. L 96. In addition, there will be a first reading of motions for resolutions No. B 17 and B 19.
