ParlaMint-DK_20160112130026	The meeting is open. I would like to begin by wishing all Members a happy New Year. I look forward to good cooperation with the Danish Parliament's parties in the coming year. Today there are the following reviews: Mette Bock (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 52 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of the documents of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission). Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and others: Question No. F 13 (What does the government intend to do to remove the poison in the Høfte 42 depot before it is too late?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160112130107	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy for the Social Democratic Party in South Jutland, Troels Ravn, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 12 January 2016, when Bjarne Corydon resigns his mandate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112130133	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The proposal was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112130209	The debate is open. It's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, the Social Democratic Party, as the first rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112130254	Thank you. When the Danish Parliament adopted the Sydslesvig Act in March 2010, it happened in the presence of representatives of the Danish minority south of the border, including Sydslesvigsk Forening, SSF, who subsequently called the adoption a piece of Danish world history. The big words had been found for the occasion, not only because it was a united Parliament that was behind the law and thus the Danish minority, but even more because Denmark as the only nation in the world adopted a law which concerns a part of the population resident in another country. As the SSF noted, the adoption in 2010 says little about the good relations between two nations. The revision of the Sydslesvig Act was already written in 2010 to ensure an evaluation of whether the law helps to clarify the framework of the Sydslesvig Committee's distribution of grants for the work of the minority. Today we can conclude that it does the law, and then this debate could sort of end here. Fortunately, good forces have taken the opportunity to look at the South Schleswig Committee once more, which is at the heart of the Danish minority's work and the link between the Danish-minded south of the border and the people's regime. The Socialists support and are satisfied that the bill extends the number of members of the South Schleswig Committee from the current 5 to 7 members with effect from the next parliamentary elections. At the same time, we note in the draft law's comments that it is the intention that the seven seats should be allocated so that as many parties as possible can have access to the work of the South Schleswig Committee. It's important. The extension of the number of members of the committee extends the work of the committee to several party groups, more politicians and thus more political hinterlands and ultimately more Danes. This is positive, and it can hopefully help to make more people aware of the work that the Danish Parliament is helping to support in South Schleswig with its grant. Yes, one might even hope that more Danes will take an interest in the Danes south of the border in the future. At the same time, the extension to seven people means that the South Schleswig Committee maintains its very special characteristics, which are the prerequisite for the committee's ability to meet quickly, acts as a political-administrative intermediary of the state's subsidies while maintaining the agreement in the decisions that is a great advantage, given that the committee is the link between the Folketing and the Danish minority south of the border. These characteristics could easily be lost if the committee with a larger number had come to look like a more common standing parliamentary committee. I would also like to highlight the fact that every two years the Parliament will have to deal with the minority in general and the work of the South Schleswig Committee in particular. This is because in future every two years the South Schleswig Committee will prepare a report which will be forwarded to Parliament for debate in committees and/or in the Parliamentary Assembly. This action will also strengthen a knowledge and connection between the Danish Parliament and the Danish-minded in Sydslesvig. It happens from time to time that there is debate about the minority and the Danish Parliament's grant. It is healthy and it is a sign of living democracy. It also raises awareness of minorities both north and south of the border. This helps to keep the debate alive and present. It is a democratic debate which, of course, also exists south of the border within the minority. We have to give room to that debate, and that is why the Socialists disagree with Mr Tugendhat. Martin Henriksen, who last week demanded that SSV had the same position as a majority in the Folketing on a specific political matter. It is, of course, bordering on mind control and therefore in no way in accordance with the Copenhagen-Bonn declarations on which the handling of the Danish minority in Germany and the German minority in Denmark is based. We must grant subsidies to support the Danishness in Sydslesvig, but not in order to buy us for SSV to think the same as us about a case that naturally affects the Danish south of the border. The Socialists can of course support the bill and we are pleased to have the opportunity to show support for the Danish minority in South Schleswig, which, as they also say, makes Denmark a little bigger. I hope that today, if not today, we can write world history so that at least symbolically confirm what Prime Minister Niels Neergaard said in connection with reunification, namely that they should not be forgotten, and we in the Folketing can continue to stand behind the Sydslesvig Act and be behind the Danish minority south of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112130749	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112130758	Thank you. In the draft law there are a number of changes based on comments from the Reichsaudit. It is also mentioned that there must be a written statement to the Folketing or that there is a possibility of a written statement to the Folketing every two years. And so also what the previous rapporteur mentioned is probably what will fill most of it, namely that an extension of the committee from 5 to 7 members will be proposed, and this will be done after the first new elections to the Folketing after the law has entered into force. It has been important for the Danish People's Party to contribute to a compromise that could embrace the entire Danish Parliament and all members of the South Schleswig Committee. In this respect, it is only fair, even though all parties have given and taken, to mention Kim Andersen, who, as chairman, has sought to bring everyone into the compromise. The Danish People's Party would have liked the committee to maintain its present size, and others would have liked the committee to have nine members. The compromise was that, after an election, the committee would have seven members. That is the agreement and we will, of course, keep our part of the agreement. The Danish minority is part of the popular Danish community. The Danes in Sydslesvig are estimated to be approx. 50,000 who feel and understand themselves as Danish. They were born and raised in areas that were previously under the Danish king but which had to be abandoned as a result of war first and then a democratic referendum. But we hold on to each other in spite of this. Today, the members of the minority and the South Schleswig Committee are seeking to preserve and strengthen Danishism in South Schleswig. It is important from the point of view of the Danish People's Party that Denmark gives moral, political and financial support to those who want to be Danish and to those who both professionally and voluntarily work with Danish language and culture in children's institutions, in schools, in assembly houses, in churches, in the work with young people and in the work with those who have come up in the years. It is a valuable and important work. It is good that the whole parliament, as I have understood it, is ready to adopt the law, because in doing so all parties say that they are committed to the minority, to the Danish-minded Sydslesvigers, and thus it is emphasised that we in this House are aware of the historical obligation that is with us Danes on both sides of the border. And with these comments, I must inform you that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131016	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131020	Thank you. The Social Democrats' rapporteur mentioned the current debate in particular. Flensborg Avis, where the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen, in my personal opinion, has not been particularly fortunate in wanting to decide how the minority and especially the minority party should deal with Danish political issues. Does the rapporteur not think that it is quite reasonable to commend the minority in order to take an independent position from the world in which they live in such a situation as now, for example? Is it really the case that the rapporteur believes that the minority should be told that they should be so loyal that they always follow the current government in Denmark at all times?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131108	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131111	It should not be said that we must always agree with everything we decide here in the Folketing or what changing governments may decide. I didn't say that either. But you can expect that when we are now in a popular community with each other, we are also loyal to each other, and then we do not fall in the back either. You can expect that. Actually, I think that's the least you can expect. When it is the case that Denmark is subjected to massive international criticism, that we are enormously pressured because of the migrant crisis, and that there are international media, international organisations that are after Denmark, lots of German politicians are after Denmark, then you as a Danish-minded party in Sydslesvig don't have to take the lead in that criticism. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131149	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131153	Thank you. I very much disagree with the rapporteur on this issue. I believe that if we are to talk about loyalty, it is a question of being good friends, you say your honest opinion to each other. And when the minority believes that there may be problems with the way we deal with border issues at the moment, I actually believe that it is to show a very high degree of loyalty to being Danish that you actually say your opinion. What if they just bowed, said thank you and said: we have to keep our mouths shut here because the government is in charge in Denmark. Then, in my opinion, we're fucked up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131228	So I have to say that the term to shut up is regarded as a swearing word and that it is not allowed in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131234	It may well be that we have different perceptions of what it means to be loyal it is so possible that we have it but I am not saying that the Sydslesvigsk Voterforening, i.e. SSV, must not disagree with Denmark. That's not what I'm saying. They're allowed to be. I fully agree that they are opposed to border controls, and I fully agree with that. I also fully agree that many German politicians are opposed to border controls, although they themselves have introduced it at the German-Austrian border, but peace be with it. What I'm just saying is that in a situation where Denmark is subjected to severe pressure and harsh international criticism and where Denmark is under pressure, one doesn't have to take the lead in that criticism. In fact, this has been done repeatedly, and I think it should be kept too good for that, and I maintain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131317	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131319	Now we've made it clear that sir... Martin Henriksen thinks it's okay to disagree. I just need to make sure that Mr. Martin Henriksen then also takes the view that whatever views may be expressed in the debate south of the border by the Danish minority, it will not affect the funding provided by the Danish Parliament, including the position of the Danish People's Party in the South Schleswig Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131350	Sir. Martin Henriksen, rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131351	There is one clear requirement which one can afford to make to SSV in relation to financial support, and that is that they are politically working to safeguard the interests of the minority. Of course. That is a demand that we can afford to make, and we also have that demand on the part of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131409	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131417	Thank you. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 81 on the amendment of the law on the South Schleswig Committee and grant schemes in the field of the Minister of Education for the Danish minority in South Schleswig, I can begin by saying that the Left, of course, will vote in favour of the proposal. The draft law has been tabled on the basis that a statement has been made on the monitoring of the law on the Sydslesvig Committee and grant schemes in the field of the Minister of Education for the Danish minority in Sydslesvig. The report concluded that the law has had the desired effect, as it has created a clear framework for the application and award of grants. Therefore, we now want to clarify the existing practice by clarifying the law so that support for construction projects will be granted as grants and secured by mortgages under German law. At the same time, the possibility of loans for construction projects lapses. In order to receive grants, institutions and associations receiving grants must comply with the grant conditions. The law provides that grants are granted only for as long as the purpose for which the grant has been granted continues to exist, thereby ensuring that the subsidy funds are used appropriately. It is proposed, as some of the other rapporteurs have also said, that this bill increases the number of members of the South Schleswig Committee from 5 to 7 when the committee is set up again after the first new elections to the Folketing. I think that would be a good thing, as an extension of the membership would allow more parties in the Folketing to participate in the work. This bill can help to strengthen the link between the Danish minority in Sydslesvig and the Danish Parliament, as it helps to ensure the physical framework for minority institutions and associations. After all, the Danish minority in Sydslesvig includes about 50,000 people, who are organized in a rich association life. Association life is important because it helps to create cohesion and improve the quality of life of the Danish minority. There are about 50 schools and almost as many kindergartens. Furthermore, there are churches, libraries, leisure homes and a wealth of associations and even a Danish newspaper. All these institutions and associations must, of course, support in the best possible way, because they give the South Schleswigers the opportunity to hold on to their Danish mental attitude, and they ensure that our Danish values are not lost. The Danish minority in Sydslesvig helps to unite language and culture and bridge the border, and this is very much needed. I know, of course, that a great deal of good work is pleased that we have presented this draft law today for the first reading in the Chamber; among other things. I know, of course, that the chairman of the South Schleswig Committee, Kim Andersen, has worked hard over recent times and is very much looking forward to the adoption of the bill. As I said earlier, I can conclude by saying that the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131756	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112131819	I would like to start by thanking the minority, thank you for excellent inspiration, co- and counter-play and a very high degree of diversity and diversity. One of the things that I think is strong is that the minority can both preserve their Danish roots, but at the same time formulate themselves in relation to the society in which they live. I hope you'll keep doing that. The minority regime is unique in the troubled Europe we currently have. A limit was set by voting on it. I didn't do it myself, I'm not that old, but in 1920 the people who lived in the area voted for the limit. That is to say, it is one of the few democratically defined limits that we have on this planet. The second, which is at least as important, is that at that time it was possible for minorities to retain their ability to speak the language, to preserve their ability to cultivate the culture they felt was the Danish one, to retain their ability to have a party that could defend their interests in the area in which they were living. This was true of both the German and the Danish minorities. That model has today been sought after in many parts of the world, and I have been thinking in recent weeks: I wonder what would happen if Ukraine gave itself the same opportunities to find a solution without weapons, but with democracy and with minority rights? Then the world would look very different, and of course that model can be used. I think it is very good that we can see that the minority plays such an active role with the other minorities in Europe who, by God, do not have equal conditions. Some of them are directly oppressed and harassed because they are minorities, and there we have a duty to help ensure that other European minorities have the same conditions as our Danish and German friends on the border. So it's important when we look at these rules, to ask: why do we actually provide subsidies? Because the committee has a special status. It is also part of the administration, and that means that we ourselves are in charge of the grant; we do not even ask the Folketing what we need the 500 million. kr. to. It is a great freedom, but it obliges us. In the view of Enhedslisten, the grant is given primarily to enable the minority to thrive in the area in which they are located and to ensure that there are good opportunities, especially for young people, for education and for the preservation of the Danish language, but also for the use of bilingual opportunities in their further adult education. It is important that minorities become a good part of society and interfere. Therefore, it is also important that there is an opportunity for them to operate their parties as they have done on both sides of the border. Speaking of Danishness, I think that sometimes goes crazy. That is why I spoke a moment ago to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Is Danishism part of what constitutes loyalty to any Danish government, where one then does not say one's opinion if it is that one disagrees? Or is Danishism just the open mind, the view and the diversity of opinions that also thrive in this hall? I mean, of course, the latter, and I think that we in the committee should work to ensure that what we need to promote is that there is, of course, as much diversity in the Danish minority as there is in the Danish people and the Danish Parliament. The legislative changes we have made are taking a small step in the direction we would like to take. We would like the South Schleswig Committee to have the same composition as the German Minority Contact Committee in South Jutland, where there is one from each party. At present, only a minority of the parties in the Folketing are represented on the South Schleswig Committee, among others. because the Danish People's Party at the constitution sat in two of the seats. I think that is untimely, but it is the constitution of the bourgeois bloc that must take responsibility for it. Our aim is that all parties should be involved in the minority issue and therefore also in the committee. That is why, of course, we can support the move from five to seven Members, albeit in a very cautious model, by not doing so until after the next elections. Now we never know when it will be, and you can hope it will be soon, so that these rules can come into force. The second is about the buildings down there, and there we agree to tighten up the rules, including in this area. I should also like to welcome the SF and say that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112132336	Thank you. Well, then, I'll tell Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, that one should not call upon the higher powers from the Parliament's platform. I don't have a personal need to correct Mr. Christian Juhl, but I am in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112132356	The tragic consequence of the war in 1864 was that Denmark lost the territory between Ejderen and Kongeåen. It left a very large number of Danes and Danish-minded people south of the new border. Already from the first years after the war, work began to support the Danish minority south of the border. During the first many decades, the Germans did everything in their power to suppress Danish culture and Danish language and mentality. The Danish-minded were to be made German. It was attempted to ban the people from speaking Danish, to prohibit the teaching in Danish and the preaching in Danish in the churches, and to ban the establishment of Danish associations. But the memory of the Danish Minds of the motherland did not disappear. After the end of World War I, in 1920 the border moved southward to the present border. There was great joy, but also great sadness, that we had to continue to leave a large Danish minority behind in South Schleswig. Both the then king and the then prime minister promised the Danish-minded that they would not be forgotten. We still remember the minority. To this day, we give economic and popular support to Danish-minded people and welcome the fact that the situation in the border country has evolved from war and enmity and demarcation to an exemplary cooperation today between the majority and minorities on both sides of the border. "You shall not be forgotten," said the King and Prime Minister in 1920. Today, almost 100 years later, however, studies show that the Danes' knowledge of our minorities is in free fall. And this dwindling knowledge, unfortunately, extends right into the Danish Parliament. There may be many reasons for this, including: the good thing that in many ways the conditions are so exemplary and that antennas always turn where there are problems. Parliament's South Schleswig Committee has a very special character. It is a small committee of just 5 members who, at the request of the South Schleswig associations and organizations, decide specifically on the distribution of the approx. 466 million DKr., which is distributed annually to the 50 day institutions, 46 schools, 2 colleges, 24 associations and 40 assembly houses, Danish congregations, Danish health service, Danish library service and much more, which today forms the framework for life in the Danish minority. The South Schleswig Committee is the vital lifeline of the minority to the Danish Parliament. The seats on the committee are distributed according to proportion, and after the last parliamentary elections, this meant that only four of the nine parties of the Folketing now have their seats on the committee. This is not appropriate, as the deep insight into the situation of the minority, which of course the Members are building up, does not extend widely into the parties of the Folketing. In the Liberal Alliance, we would have liked the parties of the Folketing to be represented with a member of the committee, however, so that the vote should reflect the distribution of seats in the Folketing. This was not the case at this stage, but we are happy to support the extension from five to seven members of the committee and, above all, the call made in the comments for as broad a representation as possible. The Liberal Alliance also supports the fact that in future every two years the Sydslesvig Committee will make a statement to the Danish Parliament on the conditions in the Danish minority in South Schleswig and Danish minority policy in general. This further strengthens the link between Denmark and our minorities south of the border, which we welcome. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112132723	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112132732	Thank you. I actually grew up in South Jutland and remember from my childhood and youth that I often encountered children and young people who had grown up and lived south of the border and were part of the Danish minority in Germany. I clearly remember that they were very proud to be part of this minority. And I remember thinking at the time, why are they? Is there anything special about that? But there is. There is And I think that is just one of the things that we should remember to recognise in Denmark. I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Left who said earlier that it is important that we, as Parliament and as politicians, recognise the minorities that exist and the values that are at stake there. But this is not just about the Danish values, because the young people I spoke to were not only proud to be Danes, they were proud to be Danes in Germany. So that is just as much what this is about, i.e. the fact that our recognition of minorities is just as much about the fact that it is another way of being a Dane, which I also think it is really important that we, as a majority, can say, go to us and learn something from. We have mentioned that this bill has several elements. On the one hand, the number of members of the Sydslesvig Committee will be increased from 5 to 7, and on the other hand, it will be laid down by law that aid for construction will be granted as a subsidy and that these grants will be secured by a mortgage under German law. And in addition, it is proposed to change the name of the law. In the alternative, we think that it is very sensible to allow the legislation to follow the existing practice, which is, of course, what this is all about here, in relation to the fact that subsidies to construction companies should be granted as subsidies. And it is also our view that it is sensible to listen in this case to the recommendations of the Reichsaudit, which the draft law also proposes. I would also like to acknowledge that the Ministry and the Minister are taking up this bill because regular adjustments, even though they are small, are actually really important for these things to work. In the alternative, we particularly appreciate the fact that the number of members of the committee is increased by 2 because, in the alternative, we believe and tend to say that more people know more, and that is also true of the South Schleswig Committee, we believe. For the same reason, we welcome the fact that the consultation responses have given rise to clarification of the draft law, so that it is clear that it is up to the electoral groups in the Folketing to ensure a broader representation on the South Schleswig Committee. In those words, I just have to say that the alternative supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133003	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133013	When I think back to my four years as a member of the South Schleswig Committee, I am thinking first of all of the many committed and sweet people I have come to know in the minority. On trips around Sydslesvig, for annual meetings, for budget meetings, for dinners and for the annual lunch here in the Danish Parliament, I have met many fire souls who are passionate about their work with and in the Danish kindergartens, schools and many voluntary associations. I have been welcomed with a warmth and a great desire to tell and show off their part of the minority, and I must say myself as a radical, that I have not experienced anywhere else where one sings louder from the high school song book than one does in the minority. It's a very great pleasure. On the other hand, I have also seen in committee that we were faced with a check by the Reichsaudit which, in my view, overturned the balance between the fact that, of course, there must be complete control of the money and that we are not stifled by bureaucracy. We have on purpose a secretariat as small as possible so that as much money as possible goes to the minority, and I would therefore like to use this opportunity to reiterate my concern that for a year and a half it has cost us one and a half employees, as far as I remember, to answer the questions from the National Audit Office, and that is all we have at all from the secretariat. It is my hope and wish that we have all learned from this process and with this bill we have found a solution which will enable the members of the Sydslesvig Committee to use all their energy in future to be a link to the Danish minority. The Radical Left would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133207	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133214	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill, which is about adjusting the law on the Sydslesvig Committee and grant schemes in the field of the Minister of Education for the Danish minority in Sydslesvig. One of the elements of the bill is to change the number of members of the Sydslesvig Committee from 5 to 7, so that there will be better conditions for a wider representation of Parliament's parties. In this way, we will ensure broader based cooperation and a broader political knowledge of the cases dealt with by the South Schleswig Committee. I think this is a very good proposal, just as I also support the intention to spread committee posts to as many parties as possible so that we can get as many parties as possible involved in the work. I believe that wider political representation can help to strengthen the link between the Danish minority in South Schleswig and the Folketing. This is an incredibly important part of our history and our cross-border cooperation between authorities and minorities on both sides of the border, which is exemplary in relation to looking around the world. We must protect and strengthen this cooperation. I agree that it is then up to the electoral groups to make a final decision on how they should be distributed, but I do think it is good that it has been added that the intention is for us to get the most out of it. We can also support the other amendments to the draft law, among others. on mortgage protection for building and construction projects and the purchase of real estate for minority associations and organisations, so that we can make the practice in force something implemented by the new law. With this, I would just like to say that we are pleased to be able to strengthen cooperation with the Danish minority in South Schleswig and that, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133356	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it is the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133407	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the broad support for the bill, not least to the Sydslesvig Committee, Chairman Kim Andersen and the other members of the committee, who I know have spent a very long time talking about how we should strike the right balance in the bill and thus the statutory review of the original Sydslesvig law that we are discussing now. I think it is enormously characteristic of the work of the South Schleswig Committee that we have such committed members. It also sends out the clear signal that it is not just any committee, but is a committee made up of dedicated members who really will be this link between the Danish Parliament and our minorities in South Schleswig. And I also know that our good colleagues in South Schleswig value the commitment there is enormously. I think it is really important, when we are dealing with the bill, to say that the statement that is being made that the South Schleswig Committee will, no later than two years after the next parliamentary elections, submit to the Danish Parliament on the situation of the Danish minority in Sydslesvig should contribute to strengthening the dialogue in the Folketing on the conditions of the Danish minority in Sydslesvig. As the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also mentioned, there are times and also times for certain people where, unfortunately, knowledge about the Danish minority is infinitely small. And that is why there is a great need for the commitment that characterises the work of the committee to be affected by the debate that we have in the Danish Parliament in order to ensure that what has been desired throughout the whole process, namely that we hold firmly to the Danish minority south of the border, also continues to live on with strong ties with the Folketing. With the bill we are discussing today, we are, of course, allowing for a wider representation of the parliamentary parties on the South Schleswig Committee. It is the intention of enlargement that the election of members by proportional representation can be divided among as many parties as possible within each electoral group. But I also think it is important to make it clear that we cannot, in the law, decide what the distribution should be. It is clear from section 52 of the Constitution that the distribution of committees in the Folketing must take place after proportional representation. And therefore, it is of course up to a sitting Parliament at any time, how to make the distribution according to the D'Hondt method. As several of the rapporteurs have also said, the South Schleswig Committee, when the law was adopted, was included in the monitoring of the law in order to assess whether the law had created the clear framework for the award of grants, which was the whole background to the law. The study carried out in connection with the law monitoring showed to a large extent that the Sydslesvig Act had had the intended effect, i.e. that a clear framework had been created for applications for grants and grants, and that a clear framework had also been created for the follow-up to the grants granted, so that it was certain that there was the adaptation and necessary control of the money paid out. The investigation also showed that it should be made clear more clearly from the law that subsidies for construction projects and the purchase of real estate should be secured by mortgages under German law. Furthermore, it should be noted from the law that the Sydslesvig Committee, when selling a mortgaged property, could re-use the secured funds for another purpose within the legal framework. And these are some of the elements that are included in the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. I am not going to explain the content of the draft law further, because I really think that the rapporteurs have already done an excellent job with each of their votes. I would just like to add, and perhaps even point out, that the intention of extending the number of Members and the election of members by proportional proportions, so that as many parties as possible can be distributed within each electoral group, is also very much based on the desire to ensure that the Folketing does not just have a few parties, but the Folketing as a whole retains the important commitment we have as a country in relation to the commitment to our minorities south of the border. Once again, I would like to thank you for your broad support and support for the legislative proposal. I think it sends an enormously strong signal to our Danish minority that it is the whole parliament that backs up. I look forward to the committee reading and, of course, if there are questions that need to be answered in this context, we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133829	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133844	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112133904	Thank you. An absolutely crucial principle in the Danish labour market is equal pay for equal work. Our whole society is built on the idea that people should be rewarded by what they can and not by what they are. In Denmark we believe in people's worth based on their qualifications, not on their gender, their ethnicity or other things. Equality is a basis for justice in our society, just as equal pay for equal work is a basis for justice in our labour market. We must therefore fight for equality and equal pay where we can, and we must fight against measures that hamper equality when we can. If we do not fight this fight, we will allow discrimination, and if we allow discrimination, we will also have allowed discrimination. Part of the struggle to ensure that men and women receive the same pay for the same work is about employees having knowledge about pay conditions at their workplace. This is an absolutely crucial part of access to the knowledge the government wants to remove today with this bill for employees in companies with less than 35 employees. The government will do this, knowing that it is Denmark's smaller companies, i.e. those affected by this bill, which has the biggest problems with pay gaps between men and women. So today we are dealing with a law that damages equality for the more than 500,000 employees who work in small businesses. At the same time, the government claims that they want to work for equality. One might wonder why we are pursuing a policy that works against equality, while at the same time being busy saying that we are working for equality. As the Minister for Employment knows, and as many of you also know, I have called for consultations in several rounds to explain the meaning of the madness here. Here, the Minister has justified this step backwards for equality in several ways... some of which he has since left. First of all, it was not possible to secure the anonymity of the employees with the current draft law. That argument turned out not to hold up at all. Later, the argument was that the previous proposal imposed excessive administrative burdens on companies. That argument didn't work out either. Since then, it has been mostly legal explanations which, frankly, seem somewhat designed for the occasion. In my view, at least, this does not justify any weakening of equality in Denmark. I hope that the Minister will be wiser in this matter and if I cannot convince him to withdraw the proposal, it may be that afterwards the Minister will enter into a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing on how we can remove the worst thistles from this bill. I have previously submitted a specific proposal with amendments to the Minister for Employment, among others. with the requirement that these statistics should be provided to the employees; that the data is not just something that the boss has completely to himself. If we are to have a sensible dialogue between the worker and the employer, it must of course take place on equal terms, where everyone has access to the information there is. So the Social Democratic Party cannot and will not support this bill. In contrast to the government, we have more than merely intentions to combat discrimination and discrimination; in fact, we will also place emphasis on words.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112134229	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112134239	Thank you, President. After all, this bill on equal pay statistics dates back to 2005, when an equal pay statistics were introduced for companies with 35 employees with at least ten women and ten men who had the same six-digit DISCO code, and this meant that from that code you could see if it was the same work they were doing. It has always been difficult to judge whether it was equal pay for equal work, because what is equal work really? I remember saying at the time that if you were to have a chance to judge whether it was equal work, you would have to have x number of women and x number of men standing next to each other and doing the same production, the same amount and at the same time. It is very difficult to get because what is equal work after all? Is that sitting by a computer? I guess there can be a big difference between the work you do there. However, in 2014, the law was then changed by the previous government, and it was said that it should apply to companies with ten employees and then three men and three women for comparison. After all, this pay statistics is not something in themselves that gives women a higher salary. This is something that must be negotiated in place in the workplace in the context of collective agreements. It must of course be negotiated there, but local wage negotiations also apply. At the same time, we know that there is a big difference between how to negotiate wages in the private sector. In some places it is the individual worker who himself is in the position to negotiate wages, and elsewhere there is a shop steward who negotiates wages. We also believe in the Danish People's Party that there should be room for those companies where it is the individual who negotiates wages. We do not believe that wage statistics in themselves provide some form of equal pay. It is the case that the companies covered by the rules from Danmarks Statistik can be sent what the salary looks like. At the same time, the law does not apply where there is an agreement built into the area. Looking at the anonymity of the individual employee, we know from experience that there are a lot of people who do not actually want to tell their colleagues what they are paid. I remember that from my time on the labour market. There were a lot of people holding the salary close to the body. No one else should see their paychecks or know what they were paid. A lot of people still feel that way, that is, that it doesn't matter to anyone else what they get paid. It does, of course, here with the anonymity that should be built into it if it was sent out that it is almost easy in the small companies to see what the individual gets in pay. If it is down to three men and three women who have to do the same thing, then you can quickly see that they get so much pay and that others get something else. At the same time, we also have the situation that if it is eight women and two men or two men and eight women, it should not report, even if they do the same work. Then it should not be reported to the statistics because the legislation that was there was with three men and three women. In general, I think we should look at something else. If we are to talk about equal pay for equal work, we need to make greater efforts in the individual companies, and we can of course always say that pay statistics can be a guide so that we can compare what men and women get, but basically there is no employer who needs to live up to pay statistics. Then, of course, you can say that individual employees can stand together and they can protest and say that they want something more in pay. Yes, yes, that is very good, but this is not the case for small businesses, because it may be a matter of the fact that when you have the work you have been given and you have agreed a salary with the employer yourself in connection with the employment, then the individual employee may not be so interested in having to look at an equal pay statistics in this regard, and then the cohesion to press the employer for something more in pay that may not be the case either. I think that the arrangement with this bill, which we go back to, is that it is companies with 35 employees with at least ten men and ten women that are being kept and that some of the services that companies receive with the legal amendment in 2014 are an excellent solution that we support in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112134737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112134742	In other words, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said a real thing, and that was that statistics do not solve the problem in themselves. I haven't heard anyone say that either. It is a tool for employees, employees, to get a knowledge of their wage conditions in the individual company and to get a knowledge of the fact that we have a pay gap in Denmark of 17 per cent. Between men and women, it is also decisive in their activities so that some of the problem can be solved locally. That is what the statistics were supposed to do; it is not the case that anyone believes that a piece of paper solves it in itself. It is a tool for solving the problem. On the other hand, the rapporteur also said something that was a terrible nonsense, namely that employees with the current legislation of 2014 can pry into each other's salary. There are many people who do not want to be able to look at what they are paid. But that is not a problem with the current legislation. I know it was a debate that was going on, but it wasn't a problem. I have the words of the former Minister for Employment for 11 June 2014: There are no problems with anonymity. And indeed I have also asked the current Minister for Employment to confirm this once again if some have not yet caught it. On December 2, 2015, it says: There are no problems with anonymity. So my question is: Why does the Danish People's Party stick to that explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112134911	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112134914	But if you have to look at the individual in a company, and if you look at the fact that, as today, there are three men and three women, that is also true for that matter, where there must be ten men and ten women doing the same thing and getting the same in pay, regardless of what, the fewer the number is, the easier it is in a company to see what pay the many who have got into the case are getting. Because if, for example, If there are seven men and three women, then it is fast to make up: okay, these three women are these, we know them, they get paid. We know the men who do the same thing, and they get it paid. They may be paid less than women. Or maybe they get more than the women. After all, there is a slight difference between what they are doing and, in this respect, the anonymity is gone. I know from experience, and it may be that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff doesn't have the experience from the workplace where you talk to colleagues about what you get in pay.Of course I shouldn't be able to say that; it may be that I'm being corrected here • that there are many who say that you shouldn't see my paycheck. I don't want you to know what I get paid. It's none of your business. This is the experience you have in a workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135028	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135031	Let's raise the level of the debates we have here a little bit and then let's just deal with the facts. That is not possible for Mr. Bent Bøgsted, no matter how good mathematical abilities Mr. Bent Bøgsted, based on the pay statistics, has to figure out what others are earning. It's camouflaged in all kinds of ways. It's also index numbers that you use. And, of course, that is something that has been included in the legislative work that has been done. I have received the Minister's and also the former Minister's detailed reply to that. It can't be done. I have thus also received the reply of the Minister and the Government, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted himself has pointed out, and perhaps he should have some confidence that they are telling the truth when they answer that it is not possible. So that Pocket Philosophical and quick calculation that on one side and on the other side, no, it doesn't hold a meter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135123	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135126	Thank you, President. It is only if the calculations that come out of it are an average of that salary. Because if there are three men and three women to look at and the men get, we'll say 130 kroner. per hour, and women get 129 kroner. per hour, it is then an average of the three women's wages that have been calculated for them to get 129 kroner. It's an average of the three men's salary that says they get 130 kroner. In class? Yeah, well, then you know what they get. I do not think you can say that you cannot see what they are paid. If you get a statistic that three women are paid so much, and you know the three women in the company, and the three men are paid so much, and you know the three men involved in the calculation in the company, then you also know what they are paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135209	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135216	Thank you. As Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has pointed out, so you cannot see from the statistics who gets what in salary. I'd like to ask about this in a different way. Can the rapporteur refer to some specific complaints that have come from employees, such as this one with anonymity, at least according to the rapporteur, is obviously a major nuisance? Are there any specific complaints? Are there any specific complaints from small businesses about the major nuisances which, according to the government and the rapporteur, they are caused by the rules in force? Is there any concrete evidence of the allegations and reasons put forward to change the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135256	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135259	Well, I think that if you look at it that way, it's limited how many employees, sir. Finn Sørensen can find a complaint about his salary. I believe that most of the complaints that come over wage formation come from trade unionists. I do not think there are many companies where they care so much about saying: Lis gets a little less than Per in pay. Actually, I don't think the average employee does. I think it's more like trade unionists. Maybe I'm wrong. But Mr. Finn Sørensen must then be able to provide figures on how many individual employees have complained that they are getting less than their colleague. I'm not gonna be able to say that. I don't have a figure on it. I don't have a figure on the other one either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135342	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135345	Thank you. Now I did not ask how many employees complain about pay. You have to go to the federations dealing with equal pay cases to find out about it. I asked: are there any complaints about this anonymity which obviously cannot be respected in the rapporteur's view? Are there any complaints from employees about this? Are there any complaints from companies about this? No, there isn't. The rapporteur cannot present this. This means that some changes are made without being able to refer to anything specific. So it's no wonder that the rest of us conclude that it's because you want to get rid of this equality. That's what it's all about... just say it straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135421	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135427	Well there is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party think that we are going too far in terms of the number of employees who should be in a company. We voted against the 2014 bill when the number was reduced to three men and three women. At that time, we were opposed to that legislation. So it's a straight line for the Danish People's Party all the way through. We voted in favour of the 2005 legislation on 35 employees, of which at least 10 men and 10 women. However, the 2014 legislation was against, and we are still gone. There has been no change in the position of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135456	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135504	In fact, I fully agree with the rapporteur that statistics do not solve the problem. But now it is also the case that knowledge is power, so I would like to ask the rapporteur why employers and employees should not have the same access to the same information.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135519	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135521	Now it is the case that if you look at the individual company and the individual employee, you can see that a lot of these small companies with ten employees and below, where for example. three men and three women, and which should be included in the pay statistics, are in fact companies where the individual negotiates his or her own wages in connection with his or her employment. There are a great many of the companies which are not covered by an agreement, and that is why it will have no effect there anyway. Then there are the places where there is an agreement and where it is contained in the agreement. After all, they have their pay statistics, even though they have only a few employees. It could then be said that where there is an agreement, if it is the contractual requirements for wage statistics, the trade union could say that it should be included in the next collective bargaining that they have. Then they could solve it that way. But in the Danish People's Party we still believe that you should not go down on such a low number of employees. It is difficult to judge what equal pay for equal work is and what equal work is at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135628	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135632	So I would just like to ask one last very brief question: does the rapporteur think that there is discrimination and discrimination in terms of pay for men and women?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135642	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135646	The figures clearly state that there is a difference. It is quite clear that there is a difference. The question is just how to solve it, and that is not done by introducing wage statistics. There may also be places where men are paid less than women. It is not the case that women are always paid less. But yes, there is a difference. That is quite clear, and so do the figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135706	Then it is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135710	Thank you. It is, as several of the authors have said, that when you have a tool that you can see the effect of, it may be very good to use it. HK's Vice-President has actually been out to say that with this roll-back of the Equal Pay Act it is clear that the government does not really want to work actively to reduce the pay gap between men and women doing work of equal value. I just want to hear: how can it be that the Danish People's Party is adding votes to the effect that real equality and improvements are not really being sought in terms of more equal pay for men and women?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135749	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135753	But it is not because we do not think there should be equal pay for equal work. It has nothing to do with it. We're just saying that a pay statistics doesn't create equal pay for equal work at all. For what in the companies where there are, let us say eight men and two women or two men and eight women? They don't have to make pay statistics, and thus you have some areas where there is no equal pay. And how do you judge that? Yeah, you can do it with the six-digit DISCO code. But there can easily be a big difference between how and how it is. Let us say that we have a company where there are four women employed and the two women have two DISCO codes and the other two women have two other DISCO codes, and then there are four men who have the same DISCO code as the two women. Then they're not covered by the statistics. A statistic doesn't give anything. It only does so if you sell your salary in place in the individual company. Then you had to go out and say that it was we in the Folketing who were to legislate on wages. Then you could get the same salary. But we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135859	Mrs Yildiz Akdogan for the last question to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135902	Thank you. Well, there's a pay gap of up to 17 percent. in Denmark. HK's vice president is out to say that a rollback with this bill is actually slowing things down. So this tool works for HK, and then the rapporteur says: well, we can't use it for anything. So that means that the Danish People's Party knows better than one of the people who has to do with this. Is that really what the rapporteur is saying that the Danish People's Party knows much more about equal pay and wage statistics than the Vice-President of the HK?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135935	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135938	No, I don't think I've said anything about that. Of course, Mrs Yildiz Akdogan may have some figures, but I do not have any figures showing that pay statistics have given a different salary in a company. I have not, but it may well be that there are some figures that I did not see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112135957	Sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140000	Thank you. I have some doubts, because in relation to anonymity in pay statistics I do not really think the rapporteur has made himself very clear, i.e. whether he believes that there really is anonymity. For the former minister says that you must know all the wages of the opposite sex and all the wages of your own sex, in order to be able to calculate your own salary or what the others are now paid. Does this mean that the Minister is not right when it is said that there is actually anonymity? You have to know all the wages first, and we are talking here about companies with more than 20 employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140042	Once again, if you look at this statistic in relation to a company with ten employees, three men and three women, according to a transcript, get the same thing, then I have to admit that I am not quite aware that it may be the minister who can correct the lack of knowledge about the figures in the statistics, is an average salary of the three women's salary or whether it is a salary for each one. I didn't just read up on what it's like there. If there are three figures for three women, you can also see each individual's salary. Then, of course, you can start to discuss whether it is Lise, Maria or Kirsten who gets one or another salary, i.e. if it is three different salaries. That's right, of course. But you can quickly pop out the three women's wages that have those salaries. Or maybe it's because the statistics show an average number. Perhaps we can ask the Minister for Employment how these figures are produced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140144	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140146	Now that the rapporteur has said that there is no such anonymity, I suppose he has somehow got into it. So my question is basically just about the same: is there such anonymity in those salaries? What is the rapporteur's position in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140203	If you have a company where there are six women and there are three women with the same DISCO code and they have to pay their wages, then all the others in the company can see that it is the three women who, unlike the others, are paid that salary. You can see that, but you can't see it from the statistics on the name itself, but you can see there are three women in the company who have the DISCO codes, and you know them out there, because they are the ones that are included in the calculations. But, of course, you can't see it directly on the name.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140235	Then there's no more on the list of speakers. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140247	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are dealing first with the law amending the law on equal pay for men and women, which deals with which companies will in future produce gender-based pay statistics. The draft law brings the rules of the Equal Pay Act on gender-based pay statistics back to the rules adopted in 2006. If the bill is adopted here, it will be companies with at least 35 employees and at least 10 of each sex who will have to produce wage statistics if the company wants to. It is also possible to draw up an equal pay statement instead if the company enters into an agreement with the employees on such a report. In the Left, we have an ambition that it should be easy to run a business, just as we have an ambition to make it easier to be an entrepreneur and run a small or medium-sized business. Most entrepreneurs focus on creating growth and turnover in a hurry, so you can pay rent and get food on the table. That is why it is useless for us here in Christiansborg to tie the very small businesses up on all kinds of administrative burdens. With the bill here, approx. 10,000 out of 13,000 small and medium-sized enterprises are relieved of an administrative burden, and this means that companies can more easily focus on growth and turnover. When it makes sense to allow large companies to draw up gender-based pay statistics, it is because large companies are much more robust and have employee capacity available. There is no doubt that there are challenges in the area of equal pay, which we must also take seriously from a political point of view, even if it is the social partners who are negotiating wages, and not the politicians at Christiansborg. The debate on equal pay is often based on different starting points: some speak of gross wage differences, others speak of corrected wage differences. And here it is important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. Gender-divided pay statistics do not say anything about the gross wage gap between men and women, and therefore it is the corrected pay gap that gives the most accurate picture of how it really stands on the equal opportunities front • pay in relation to comparable job functions. The SFI has approx. 3 years ago identified the corrected wage differences between men and women and concluded that there are a number of unexplained wage differences. On the Left side, we believe that it is precisely these inexplicable wage differences which, among other things, include: is at the heart of the challenge of achieving a more equal pay, and this is where we, too, can help to make a difference by ensuring legislation that makes these differences visible. But it has to be balanced so that no small business gets squeezed. When we on the Left support the fact that it is DISCO codes that should be used as a starting point for salary information, it is because the system is the system that gives the most accurate picture of what pay is given to people who do comparable work, of course also whether there are nuances in the DISCO codes that are not taken into account. In the Left we think it makes good sense that all companies in the future and without charge will receive a gender-based salary statistics from either an employer's organisation or directly from Danmarks Statistik. When we think it makes sense, it is because we believe that by making pay differences between men and women visible at a given percentage level, companies are helping to maintain their focus when statistics fail in from the letter box, just as the employee can ask for concrete differences. We have just crossed the threshold of a new year and there are many tasks waiting for equality to be tackled together. Equal opportunities, equal rights are important focal points for us in the Left, which is why I would like to see us discussing in the new year, in addition to equal pay issues, how we can ensure that more boys get an education because, after all, things are connected. We are talking about pay gaps between men and women and a gender-based labour market, but all too often we forget to relate to the fact that a gender-based labour market is also a consequence of gender-based educational choices. Here I think we have a challenge which will require very special attention in the years to come. On 4 February 1976 the Folketing adopted the first Danish law on equal pay. The law was to ensure equal pay for men and women for the same work or work of equal value, and here we stand 40 years later, and from Parliament's platform we discuss equal pay. Not because nothing has happened, but because we want to get to the last little piece. The SFI's report, which I mentioned earlier, points out among other things. in the case of undetectable qualifications, the individual's ability and ability to negotiate wages, as well as the gender of the person concerned, as possible explanations of unexplained wage differences. In a very short time, the SFI will conclude a new survey of the development of gender work sharing and the importance of education and training choices for gender work sharing, and here we must be alert because it is probably the gender-based labour market which is the main single cause of the pay gap between men and women. On the left side, we support the bill because we believe that gender-separated pay statistics can help to shed light on some of these inexplicable wage differences that we would like to see wiped out, and so that we can hopefully move towards a more equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140748	Then there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140752	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I think it stands at the rapporteur's very own expense that it should be the gender-separated labour market that is the main reason. As the SFI has just pointed out, there are 7 per cent who are unexplained wage differences. However, I would like to ask this question because I was aware that the rapporteur said that it makes sense for all companies to receive pay statistics. I think we can only agree on that, but what is the good point of depriving employees of rights that they have today in relation to the legislation in force? First of all, half a million employees who are no longer covered by the right of access to such wage statistics at all, and for those who remain, there are also a number of violations of their rights. It is the right to be informed that they are subject to the rules. It is the right to obtain the payroll statistics that are not available to small businesses either. That is the right to have a debate on it. At the same time, the possibility of sharing pay statistics with others is restricted if it is provided under confidentiality. What is the good point in reducing employees' rights in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140904	If I may clarify what I said in my speech, it was that it is probably the gender-separated labour market which is the most important single cause. I am sure that Enhedslisten's rapporteur shares the point of departure that the gender-based labour market is part of the explanation that we have wage differences in Denmark. I am sure that at a good place of work with a good climate of ease you could ask about the statistics that the previous government proposed should be sent out to all companies, which we actually think is a very good idea. I am sure that the individual companies will not see it as problematic if you come as an employee and ask about the statistics submitted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140944	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112140946	Then we agree on a good wording in relation to the gender-based labour market and its impact on wage differences. But all the rules are made to take account of those situations where there is not a nice and nice and nice employer who wants to hand these things over. So I have to repeat the question: why would employees' rights be undermined in this context, on the one hand, by limiting the number of companies to be covered by the rules and, on the other hand, by directly depriving employees of specific rights that they have today? How could this benefit equality? That is what I would like an answer to. What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141028	When we limit the number of companies that have to provide gender-based pay statistics, it is because we in the Left would like to see a more balanced approach to creating gender-based equal pay statistics. Just as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is for us to have a good balance and make it easier to operate. And we impose many administrative burdens on small businesses, it is really difficult for them to keep their focus on what they have to do, namely to create growth and turnover.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141102	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141105	Yes, it would be awful if, under current legislation, we were to burden our many good companies with all the administrative burdens that should lie in this legislation. Then it is good that the government can make this proposal which, I understand from the rapporteur, should relieve businesses of too many administrative burdens. That's how you have to understand it. Will the rapporteur not be a little more specific: what are the administrative burdens for which the government, with the Left in the lead, relieves our businesses? Be specific in the answer. There are many of them, so the rapporteur can just take some of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141146	We have in fact put forward a large number of proposals on how to make it easier to run a business and how to create growth in Denmark. This is one, what should we say, little bit, of the fact that we are just trying to relieve small businesses of one of the administrative burdens, namely to draw up wage statistics. In fact, I believe that there is a great deal on the palette, which is why it is important to say that for us in the Left it is important that there is a balanced approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141217	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141219	It sounds good to have a balanced approach. I got one answer. I mean, I got a lot of talk, but I didn't quite get an answer to what were the many administrative burdens that companies are being relieved of. I heard the rapporteur on the Left say that there was a great deal of difficulty in producing a pay statistics. I can say that there is not, because Denmark's Statistics do for companies. What companies have to do, including with this bill, is that they have to report. I have the words of the rapporteur's own minister. The minister writes to me in his reply: • I can inform you that the bill does not change the company's obligation to report salary information to Danmarks Statistik. In other words, all the work on making pay statistics still has to be done away with. So what is the burden relief that businesses are getting? Please be specific in your answer, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141311	Now it's just that just because you keep asking the same thing doesn't mean you get another answer. What is my starting point here is that every time we impose an administrative burden on a company it could, for example. We must ensure that we do so in a balanced manner. And the proposal adopted by the previous government, precisely that it was down to ten full-time employees, I do not think was balanced. I do not know whether the Socialist rapporteur will take the trouble to listen to what I have to say. I listen all the time). Yeah, but it's nice. Thank you. It is very polite, when asked something, that the answer is then also listened to. I would like to insist that for us in the Left, it is important that there is a balanced approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141351	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141356	I think I'm gonna follow up on where Mr. Knox is. Rasmus Horn Langhoff ended. I have asked myself the same question and would like to put it to the rapporteur: what exactly are the small businesses doing that they should not do if this bill, which is rolling back the old law, is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141423	I believe that precisely the fact that there are now 35 full-time employees means that it will be the large companies that will have to be charged with the responsibility of producing gender-based pay statistics. The large companies have the muscles in the cooperative forums which they are legally obliged to have, and in the forums you will have much, much easier to meet that challenge than you will have in a small start-up business. I am actually surprised that both the Social Democrats and the Alternative are not on the side of companies here, but seemingly have a different agenda. It really surprises me that we do not share the ambition to create growth and development in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141504	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141507	I can only speak for the alternative, and I can say that we are both on the side of companies and society. And here I would like to ask the rapporteur: what prevents us from contributing to what we can call social sustainability, the social bottom line, in terms of contributing to the whole challenge of equality, and thus eliminating the gender gap in pay today, while at the same time, what I fully agree with, is that a company should have a good basis for growth? Why do you choose not to bet on both at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141551	Well, I would be delighted if any company would contribute to wiping out the pay gap there is. That is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech, in other words that we in the Left also have an ambition to wipe out that pay gap. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, statistics do not do so alone. This is a small corner that we are now asking the big companies to work with, and I have very high expectations of the report that the SFI is presenting, and I hope that we in the Committee on Gender Equality will also discuss how we can tackle the challenges of the gender-based labour market. Because I think that's where the main challenge is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141630	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141633	Thank you. Well, the Socialists want growth and development, but I just think we still need answers. Now, apparently, I am the third person to be allowed to ask a question about the administrative burden that businesses will not have to bear by implementing this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141656	I think I have made it quite clear that I do not think it is right to require small companies with up to ten employees to produce gender-based pay statistics. What is important is that it is the large companies, i.e. those with more than 35 employees, who have the muscles, which are more robust, and who have some forums where it will be easy for companies to work, among other things. with gender-based pay statistics. I do not believe that gender-based pay statistics in themselves solve the pay gap challenge that we all agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141729	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141731	Somewhere I think it is a pity that the rapporteur has not read out what kind of legislative proposal has been put forward, because precisely gender statistics or statistics on who is in one's shop, it is Denmark's Statistics that do. The rapporteur also mentioned Rasmus Horn Langhoff. So it is not true what the rapporteur says. Another thing is that there are not so many administrative burdens, so we have not heard of anyone now. The only administrative burdens that the rapporteur can bring to bear are then not right. So the question is this: do the Left give priority to lower or lower burdens, can it be said, for companies higher than equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141820	No, I don't think you can say it's an either-or. We give priority to growth and development in Denmark; we give particular priority to small and medium-sized enterprises by means of this bill. At the same time, we insist that it is the large companies, i.e. those who have more than 35 full-time employees, who have to solve the task of producing gender-based pay statistics. I think it is very important that it is a boat and not a either or. I said in my rapporteur's speech that we have an ambition to erase the pay differences that we all agree on there, and I think we should work on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141858	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141902	Thank you. The rapporteur would like to help to eliminate the wage differences that exist, and here we actually have a very effective and useful tool which could be used precisely in relation to the ambition of the Left. HK's vice president has actually been out saying that this may be a good arrangement to try to use. Then it is my surprise that the rapporteur is not really dealing with it, nor does he have any. For that is not really there, we have just been told, after four times the same question has been asked, without the rapporteur being able to give a concrete answer. But I would really like to hear: does the Left believe that reducing wage differences is a relevant equality problem or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112141951	I certainly believe that we should take it seriously that there is a pay gap between men and women. I said it in my rapporteur's speech, and I am happy to repeat it. I believe that where the greatest challenge is, it is in relation to the gender-based labour market. And I am delighted that I can hear that there is an interest in us discussing, in the new year here in the Committee on Gender Equality, how we can ensure that, for example, we can do something about it. more boys get an education and how we can make it easier for boys and girls perhaps to choose some of the educations that they traditionally do not choose. I really look forward to having that discussion in the Committee on Gender Equality. I recognise that there are wage differences, and I also recognise that we have a political obligation to address it and also to put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142037	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142039	Thank you. This is interesting because, with this bill, we actually have a tool that can help meet the wish of the rapporteur, namely to minimise the pay gap. Nevertheless, we stand there and argue that it should be abolished. Why? In fact, we do not know that because there are apparently no administrative burdens involved, and it has actually been said by various organisations that this is actually not such a bad thing at all. That is why I have some doubts as to what the Left really wants. One would like to make a difference in minimising wage differences, but one has no alternative but to roll back a tool that could actually prove to be effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142121	Well, I really do not have an ambition, as Mrs Yildiz Akdogan says here, to abolish gender-based pay statistics. What the government has proposed, and what we support from the Left, is just that it should be some slightly larger companies that should help to fulfil the task of ensuring that we continue to have gender-based pay statistics in Denmark. And I also support the proposal made by the previous government, namely that we send out gender-based pay statistics so that all companies can follow the situation in the area of equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142200	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142202	Something puzzles me. How can one really be in favour of the law on gender-based pay statistics, which was implemented in 2006, and at the same time believe that it should not also apply to small and medium-sized enterprises, knowing that this is where the majority of Danish employees are actually employed? When all companies have to report to these statisticians, and when it's Denmark's Statistics that send it out, I'm still trying to get a picture of and live in what it looks like on the specific companies. What are they gonna do now that they won't have to do if they're backing your bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142257	I am not sure I fully understand Mrs Trine Torp's question. If you look at the number of employees, it can be said that this included approx. 1.7 million employees. I still think that it is a considerable proportion of the employees who are on the Danish labour market, who are included in this bill here, and who will, of course, have to contribute to gender-separated pay statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142330	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142333	But no matter how many or how few people are involved, what is the work? What is it that either the manager himself or the administration has to do with these gender-based pay statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142352	It is clear that there are tasks associated with creating a gender-based pay statistics, in relation to, for example, contact with Danmarks Statistik, and the small companies must be freed from the burdens where we think it makes sense to free them, and then let the large companies that have the muscles, and which are robust, take that responsibility upon themselves. For I share the ambition that I can hear from several rapporteurs that we must ensure a more equal pay in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142421	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142424	Thank you. It is very interesting to hear questions and answers when you sit here and do nothing but listen to what is being said. Because I can hear that Mrs Jane Heitmann actually does not understand the questions that are being asked at all and now I am trying to put it in a different way. We need statistics in a great many areas. Therefore, there are a large number of duties that companies must report on to Danmarks Statistik, and we use it in our legislation and in many other ways. Information is important in order to gain transparency and to gain knowledge about how society develops. As far as I understand, and I suppose that is correct, companies, including the small ones, still have to report their pay statistics to Statistics Denmark. What, then, is the relief when the legislation we are talking about is abolished and smaller companies are exempted from producing gender-specific pay statistics when they have to report to Denmark's Statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142528	I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that statistics make perfect sense. We need statistics to find out how society is developing and what route we are moving along, and I can hear that we have a common ambition that we should have exactly reduced the pay gap. I believe that gender-based pay statistics do not do so alone, but they can help us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142552	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142554	[Sound emission]... with the legislation now unfortunately not to apply, is, of course, that the pay statistics at the individual workplace become a cooperation tool. This is something that you talk about management and employees between, because everyone feels, in some way, more or less pronouncedly obliged that we have equal pay in Denmark, or that that is the objective, and I assume we agree on that. What tool do they now have at the small workplace to discuss the pay statistics or the pay difference that is at work, when we know that the greatest inequalities in pay are on small businesses and not on large ones? What sort of handles will Mrs Jane Heitmann recommend to the employees of small businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142639	I support the proposal made by the previous government to send out gender-based pay statistics to all companies. In fact, I think that when it dumps into the letter box I also said that in my rapporteur's speech there is a very good opportunity for the individual company to discuss what the situation is like on the equal pay front. I think that is what I used in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142704	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112142722	This bill is a serious restriction on the possibility of correcting the pay gap between men and women, and I expressly say the possibilities for it, because everyone agrees that a statistic itself does not. After all, it should be completely outside discussion that it is necessary, and it should be completely outside discussion, that these differences exist and that more and not less should be done to correct them. The latest analysis by the Social Research Institute, the National Research Centre for Welfare, from 2013 shows that there is a pay gap between men and women of 17 per cent. Seventy-seven percent. the difference in pay cannot be explained and can therefore constitute discrimination. Only between one in three and one in four companies will produce an equal pay statistics or an equal pay statement. 20% of companies do not inform about it, and only 42 per cent. make the statistics available to those involved, namely the employees. These facts should tell us all that there is no reason to weaken the tools we have, on the contrary, it must be about strengthening them. For years there has been a consensus in principle that wage statistics are a good tool for promoting equal pay. In formal terms, that is still the case. And it goes without saying that the differences must be made visible if they are to be combated effectively. This view is not directly attacked in this draft law either, but there are so many deteriorations in the current rules that it can only be described as a deliberate attempt to weaken the work of equal pay in this country. To mention the most important deteriorations: the number of companies subject to the requirement of equal pay statistics is drastically reduced, from companies with at least 10 employees to companies with at least 35 full-time employees, while at the same time, which is a further restriction, is covered by the rules on information and consultation of employees. The target group is further reduced by introducing a requirement that at least 10 of each sex should be engaged in the same work function, where today it is at least 3 of each sex. The consequence of these changes is, according to the Government's answer to question 22, that approx. 500,000 employees will no longer be covered by the rules on the production of equal pay statistics. And according to the Institute for Human Rights, the number of companies covered by the rules is shrinking by almost 10,000... that figure has been confirmed here today. The statistical tool itself is deteriorating in the sense that the difference now has to be calculated only as a percentage and no longer also in kroner and ear, and also in the sense that the concept of pay is no longer fixed. It is very close that the statistics that remain cannot be used for anything at all when it comes to the purpose, namely to see how wage differences generally develop in this country. Employees who are covered by the rules on pay statistics also lose a number of rights. They lose the right to be informed that they are subject to the rules. They lose the right to receive payroll statistics. They lose the right to have a discussion of it. At the same time, the possibility of sharing pay statistics with others is severely restricted, because if it is received in confidence, it must not be handed over to outsiders, whoever it is, should it not be the trade union of the employees that you think about? What do we see in the debate here today? The government and the bourgeois parties do not even want to prove their claims that the rules in force are a nuisance to small businesses and that this should violate the anonymity of employees. Of course, it has the natural reason that it cannot be documented. However, this is also due to the fact that, according to the current rules, the first wage statistics should not be available until 1 September 2016. There is simply no experience to be built on. Then why can't the government wait until 2019 for the current legislation to be evaluated? There can only be one explanation for this, namely that the government, together with its support parties, is fervently opposed to employees having some useful rules to fight for equal pay; no other explanation can be given. Equality simply does not interest the bourgeois parties if it means rights for employees and if it costs money. It's as simple as that. It is true, of course, that this work could cost money. It has to cost money, because there are hundreds of thousands of female employees in this country who have to raise their salaries. The statistics show that. That's probably where the dog is buried when it comes to the play. It is a completely misguided and short-term view, also from a corporate point of view. It would be good for equality in society if we were to get more equal pay. That goes without saying. In fact, it would also be good for flexibility in the workplace. This would be good for better organisation of work. And that would be good for better use of the means of production. Equality is a very good investment, including for companies. But in order to get there, you need to think long-term. I certainly believe that the government and its support parties have the ability to do so. They just don't want it when it comes to better equality. Enhedslisten's votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143247	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143250	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen, whether he can confirm that the bill does not change the company's obligation to report salary information to Danmarks Statistik.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143301	I can reply very briefly to that. The changes that are taking place are, of course, the loss of employees' rights. There are half a million people who completely lose the right to be included in pay statistics, and the employees who then continue to be covered lose the right to have a discussion and an orientation, as I outlined. So this bill is about weakening employees' rights, to put it briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143328	Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143330	The rapporteur of the Left felt that there were many administrative burdens, but could only think of one, and then it actually turns out that the one burden which the Left could then think of, that is to say, does not last.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143346	That is quite right. The Minister has confirmed this in an answer to a question from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. So what we have to say after this debate is that the bourgeois parties are completely undressed, because they have no arguments; they cannot argue for their reasons for weakening workers' rights and the possibility of fighting for equal pay. And it's a confession case. You can just read in the comments to the bill, which says loud and clear on page 6, and I quote: "The bill is deemed to have negative gender impact...... That is to say, you go with your eyes open into a bill that reduces equality in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143426	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143429	Thank you. We suffer badly from politicians in Denmark, there are many who are tired of us in here at Christiansborg, and I think so among other things. is because we often accuse each other of things and do not really listen when we discuss. And to be perfectly honest, one of the things I appreciate is that we have, for example, got the alternative in the Folketing; I think they are contributing something new. That is why it just makes me, to be perfectly honest, so deadly that the rapporteur says that when civil parties are against this, it is because we do not want equal pay. So what I heard the rapporteur say earlier was that there was only one explanation for being against this, and it was that we really do not want women to be paid on the same scale for the same qualifications. I would just like to know if the rapporteur would confirm that that is what he meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143515	Now I have to find exactly what I said: equality simply does not interest the bourgeois parties if it means rights for employees and if it costs money. It's as simple as that. That is what I said, and that is what the rapporteur is allowed to say. Then I just want to say that I think politicians come from something completely different. It comes from the fact that politicians are saying one thing and doing another, and that is what we have an example of here today, because the rapporteurs of the bourgeois parties and the Minister are about to stand up and say: we are in favour of equality, while at the same time reducing opportunities for fighting for equal pay. That's the kind of thing politicians get off.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143555	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143556	I can then tell the rapporteur that we Conservatives intend to vote exactly the same as we voted when this was dealt with on the other side of a parliamentary election. So it's doing exactly the same thing you've said you'd do before a choice. The text to which I referred was the one that came just before the passage that the rapporteur chose to read.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143615-2	Well, I didn't say anything about the fact that there was no reason to feel politicized about the Conservative People's Party before the elections, and that it had to be something that arose after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143628	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143630	Thank you. The rapporteur now asked, among other things. together with other rapporteurs about what others have really thought about this bill. I would just like to read out a small passage from a consultation answer: the law in force is therefore the one adopted by the former Red Government to upset the balance between the desire to promote work on equal pay and the administrative burdens which it is for employers to interpret and discuss the statistics presented. Thus, the draft law here makes a positive contribution to ending this imbalance. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is a consultation answer from the Danish Employers' Association?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143708	Yeah, I would have guessed that myself if the questioner hadn't told me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143713	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143715	I would just like to say thank you for your answer and that there has just been a hearing which points to the fact that not everyone is equally satisfied with the legislation adopted by the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143726	We already knew that. That is not what we have been discussing here today either. What we have tried to get the rapporteurs of the bourgeois parties to make is evidence of the allegations that have been made as a reason for weakening the current rules and weakening the rights of employees. After all, it is the rapporteurs who have to be the target. There is no point in referring to what the Danish Employers' Association thinks. There is, of course, some evidence to show that anonymity is being damaged by the fact that it imposes a whole lot of nuisance on these small businesses. We didn't get that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143806	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112143823	Thank you so much. We think that L 89, which we are dealing with now, is a good legislative proposal. That's our attitude... and we kind of told the government that these rules on gender pay statistics should be completely removed. This is an administrative burden for companies. It is for large companies as well as for small businesses, although we recognise that it is of course the largest for small businesses. After all, the administrative burden is that the employer can do so, for example. the carpenter master with few employees in the company must hold interviews with the employees about the wage conditions in the company, which certainly does not say anything about equal pay. Then the employer must sit and explain why the HK in the office has a salary different from that of the electrician or carpenter who does something else in the company. It is an administrative burden, and it is an expression of foolishness. I have personally spoken to many, both employees and employers, who can tell funny stories about how these conversations are going. You could probably do a fun show on TV about it if you recorded some of these conversations. There is no content in it, which is why it is, of course, a good thing that it is being removed. There are many natural reasons why women and men are paid different salaries. This is because, I believe, men and women have on average different priorities, and it is also evident when you look into society. Women choose to work more than men in certain occupations, often in the public sector. This may also be because you have different priorities when you go to wage negotiations. In the past, we have had a payroll commission which showed that, and we also know it from research, when you ask men what they are going for when they are for wage negotiations, they often respond to higher wages, where, on average, women are going for some different benefits at work. Salary is a result. It's a result of how productive you are. It is the result of a wage negotiation. It is the result of many different things. If you really want to do something about the pay conditions for women in Denmark, and I think you should do that, then you should get to grips with two specific things, I think. One is the construction of the public sector. It is notoriously helping to keep the pay of women at a lower level. This is because the public sector has a monopoly on the provision of certain services, for example. health care. There is no competition in the provision of these services, and monopolies keep wages down for employees, because what helps to push wages up in the private labour market, where there are many different companies competing with each other, is that these companies are also in competition with each other to get the best workforce. It's pushing up the salary. Therefore, private companies also have to pay the salary that employees are worth. Otherwise, they lose the workforce to other companies. So what really holds back women in Denmark in terms of wages is that we have chosen to have a large public sector with a monopoly on the provision of certain services. It is never to the benefit of employees that there is only one employer. The other is actually the top treasure. The top tax keeps the salary down for women. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that the negative employment effects of top tax are three times as great for women as they are for men. This is also due to the fact that, on average, women have different priorities. In other words, women assess the benefits of an extra hour's work compared to, for example. to do things in their spare time different from men. These are some concrete things you could do about. These are structural things in our social design that have a negative impact on women's pay. These are concrete things. Those are the things we should be discussing. These were things that ought to be done instead of discussing gender-based pay statistics, which provide a silly bureaucracy, especially in small businesses. We can, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144323	Then there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144327	It is an honest matter that the Liberal Alliance would like to go a long way forward here, but now it is this bill that we are dealing with and discussing, so that is what I want to ask. Does the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur agree that it weakens the employee's position in a negotiating situation and it could be any negotiating situation that one party to a negotiation has a knowledge that the other party, the employee, does not? Today it is the opposite, namely that the basis on which the discussion is based is a knowledge that both have, for under the current legislation, when an envelope comes in from Statistics Denmark, the employer must share the information with the usually representative of the shop steward. This means that if you are going to have a discussion about something, you can have it on an equal basis. Can the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance not see that it will be an unequal basis to have this discussion on if only one party has the information and that it will be harder to get equal pay if only one party has the information?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144433	No, I don't actually agree with that, because it's such a little theoretical approach to this question. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there are, by their very nature, few employees in small companies, and these statistics say nothing about whether there is equal pay in companies, because there will often be few people working in different job functions. Then it's completely useless. What, after all, in a wage bargaining situation means that wages are pressed up, what gives employees a good negotiating position, is that the employee has an alternative job opportunity. So you can say that you want more pay because you can go to another company and get a better salary. Or it can go well in the company and productivity increases etc. etc., and it triggers over time wage increases. These are the fundamental structural things that matter to wage formation in Denmark, not these wage statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144546	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144548	Now I think the Liberal Alliance rapporteur makes it sound like it's just tiny businesses. One gets the impression that it is almost one-man businesses. But it is also companies with as many as 34 employees. It is smaller companies compared to how large companies we also have in Denmark, but they still have a certain size and a certain weight. They're also affected by this bill. So it can be said that only employers get the information, and there will be some employers around, who get some pay statistics that look all the way up to the table and we have an average pay gap of 17 per cent, part of it cannot be explained at all by the pay committee, although the rapporteur very laudably tries to make some rather random guesswork about it. What incentive does an employer have to take a conversation if he is not forced to take the conversation? Well, if it really looks bad at work, what is it in this bill that should make the employer want to have that conversation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144654	If I were to go into the premise, I would still say that it was a good idea to abolish this pay statistics for these small businesses for the simple reason that I do not think we should have legislation that affects so few companies, as the rapporteur has said, because on the vast majority of companies this is not a problem. I would also say that if there is a company owner out there who does not pay the salary that the employees are worth, then he or she is a bad business owner. You can't survive in the long term in a market if you don't pay the salary the employees are worth while there is competition in that market. That is not the case in the public sector, and that is why I tried to problematize that the biggest problem in relation to women's pay in Denmark is that we have a very, very large public sector with a monopoly on the provision of certain services, and that keeps wages down for the people who work under that monopoly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144756	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to remind you that when I get up, it's because time is up. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144803	Thank you. It will be really exciting to have that claim documented. I mean, those places where there's something to compare with, for example. in the area of cleaning and health, etc. So it doesn't really add up. But I would like to return to something more fundamental. The rapporteur said that there are natural reasons why women are paid less than men. Is the natural reason, according to the rapporteur, that women are simply worth less than men?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112144846	Well, what determines people's wages isn't whether they're women or men or whether they're redheads or blonde. What determines what pay people can get is what their labor is worth. It is productivity that over time controls wage developments within the industries. Well, that's just it. There is a one-way link between productivity growth and wages. That's what settles it. Then it is the case that people's priorities do not need to be women or men, but people do, therefore, what they weigh, what is important to them, in a pay negotiation of course influences what salary they receive. Some will say: it is important to me that I receive a very high salary and then I would like to give up some other benefits. Others have some other priorities. And then it just turns out that, on average, men and women have different priorities. More women than men want to go part-time, for example. More women may also want to get some other benefits instead of getting a higher salary. Pay is a result, and it is then expressed in different pay when giving different priorities. But it is not a question of women. So, a woman who is skilled at her job will receive the same pay as a man who is skilled at his job if they prioritise the same in wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145017	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145020	I don't think that's really connected, sir. rapporteur. Because either it is because women are worth less than they are paid, or it is because they have different priorities. Both can't be right. I believe most that the rapporteur is in favour of the first thing the rapporteur said, namely that it is perfectly natural for women to be paid less because they are worth less, which, according to the rapporteur's logic, is reflected in the difference in pay, is it not? So can the rapporteur choose between the two reasons? What is the reason why women are paid less than men? Is it because they are worth less, or is it simply because they do not give proper priority to wage negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145105	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur can try to tie me up on such rhetoric, where I say that women are worth less than men, but I could never dream of saying that. I am not referring to women or men. I would point out that when it comes to people in a labour market, their pay is structural over time determined by their productivity, whether it is women or men. It may well be that there are some subjects in which men, because they are men, are more productive than women, just as there may be some subjects in which women, because they are women, are more productive than men. But I would never dream of saying women are worth less than men. That would be a terrible nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145153	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145156	Thank you. I just have a short question. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur referred to the fact that when men go to pay negotiations, they primarily negotiate a higher salary, but when women go to pay negotiations, women negotiate more about some benefits at work. I guess these are some studies to which the rapporteur refers. I would really like to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think is the reason why this is so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145224	I think there are many reasons for that. I think that, on average, women and men are so dangerous in this debate, namely that we talk about people in such an average way as to give different priorities in their lives, where men are more likely to work a lot, they also stay longer in the labour market, work several hours, and where, on average, women give higher priority to families and to be more at home. You can also see that 30%. of women working part-time. Then you can make all kinds of ideas about why this is so. I believe that this is largely due to the fact that we are arranged a little differently. We're not the same. There are many women and more women. It's nice. It's more ambitious. It's career-wise and goes for top jobs, etc. We have examples of it in the Chamber today, it is wonderful and good, but there are some average differences between men and women. There are some differences between the sexes, and I would say at any time that people who believe that there is no gender difference are not wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145340	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145343	I have the answer to my question. I don't have any more. We clearly disagree, but I recognise that the rapporteur answered the question, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145351	I do not have much comment to make on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145402	Then it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145407	Thank you. The rapporteur makes this clear to Mr McMillan-Scott. Finn Sørensen that he is actually in favour of there being no difference between men and women and that there should be equal pay for equal work. I hope I have understood the rapporteur correctly. However, we are dealing here with a legislative proposal which is a tool which could actually help to provide more knowledge and information and which can be actively used. What the rapporteur did not do in his speech was to look at how this tool might be used actively, and instead he spoke more about what should be done overall by reforms in society. And one of the things that the rapporteur used all along to justify doing something in other areas was that the priorities between the sexes were different and that nothing could be done about it. But does the Liberal Alliance really not have a vision to make a difference in terms of creating or at least minimising the pay gap in society? Isn't there another idealism or vision in the Liberal Alliance than talking about the top treasure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145510	When I mention the top tax, it is because it is actually something that holds women back. There is solid evidence that women react differently to top tax than men. And I think that's a problem. On the other hand, I could ask whether the Socialists do not think that it is a problem that we have a tax which hits women harder than men and which is more at the disadvantage of women than it is for men. After all, we are talking about people with relatively high wages, that is, people who make careers for many, so it is a tax that makes it harder for women to make careers. I find that problematic, and it is strange that you neglect it and make fun of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145557	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145558	It's not really me who's kidding. It is the rapporteur who minimizes a rather relevant problem, namely that there is a huge pay gap between men and women, and this is used to say that it is a matter of priorities, and women also enter into negotiations with different wishes and so on, and should we not just look at that top tax. That is what is a little strange about the rapporteur's reply, and I simply cannot really hear whether there is really any such doubt in relation to the fact that in this draft law we actually have a tool that could be very important and could provide a knowledge and information that can be used effectively. Couldn't the Liberal Alliance be just a little bit open to this possibly working?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145641	But when we talk about equal pay, the problem is how to understand it. If you have two employees, a man and a woman standing by an assembly line, and the man produces more per. hour, more gizmos, than the woman, is it so unfair that the man gets a higher salary when the value of his labor is worth more? Would it not be discrimination if the woman were to receive a higher salary than the man? I am just trying to say: what do we mean by equal pay, and what I am trying to say is that it is not about men or women. What governs and determines wages over time is the individual's productivity, how much the individual's labour is worth, whether it is a woman or a man. And I actually think that's fair. I'm not the one who makes this a man-woman question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145735	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145735-2	Well, I can be pretty impressed with Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen's abilities, and I actually sincerely believe this, to always trace the debate to top tax, competition and the size of the public sector. I think that is actually quite impressive. That is not really what this debate is about, and so I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if it is now the gender rather than the qualifications that determine the salary, does the rapporteur think that it is right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145815-2	I understand the question that it is about an employer sitting there thinking that there is a woman here and because it is a woman, he will pay him a lower salary than if it had been a man. Then I would think that the employer is a lunatic and is deeply unsympathetic and by the way is a really bad employer, because it is not good for the company. One simply cannot operate on the long track by not paying the wage that the workforce is worth, because then the workforce goes to other companies and then the company suffers a loss and misses the good workforce. That's why there are some mechanisms that control these things all by themselves. It may well be that some men's chauvinists are still out there in 2015 in some companies. I don't think there's a lot of them. What I hear from business owners is that they really do like, for example. women are often difficult to get women to do so. This is the kind of thing we have to discuss in society. But Mrs Trine Torp can ask another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145924	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145925	The rapporteur now replied at the level of the individual. I could also ask the question: if it is now for a group of women who are employed in a company that it is sexy and not their qualifications that determine their salary, is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112145942	That would be completely stupid. What I am just trying to say is that running a business in this way cannot be done in the private labour market either. You just can't do that. That is not the way a labour market is organised, and that is not how wage formation works. You wouldn't be able as an employer to tell a group whether it's red-haired women or men or whoever it is, because you're red-haired women or men, you're gonna have to get a lower salary. You wouldn't be able to say that as an employer in the private labour market. In fact, I believe that it is in this Chamber that some of the structural problems are neglected in relation to the way in which we have organised our society with the gender-based labour market and what that means for women's pay. I think that is being neglected by the left. And I do not actually understand that, because it can be demonstrated that it has a meaning. It is of course important when there is a monopoly in one area and it is important for wage formation in that area. It's pushing down the payroll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150047	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150049	I do not want to agree with the previous speaker, who was impressed by the rapporteur on the floor right now, because I have never heard a speech so remote from the world about something completely different from what we are discussing here today. We are talking about equal pay for equal work. That is absolutely crucial. That is the crux of the matter. The rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is so bold to talk about competitive society and about men being more persistent than women etc. etc. Ok, well, I've listened very carefully to the class, I heard every word, unfortunately. But I understand that next to a man I am useless in competitive society because I do not have the same ambition and so on. etc. and that I choose the children and the family over the work. I wonder if there could be that behind the fact that some people seem to think that it is because men have a higher salary than women and that it is better to bear that it is the woman who takes the long maternity leave than it is the man because the man does not get full pay during maternity leave? Could it have influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150204	I can say that Mrs Marianne Jelved is one of the politicians I respect most, not because Mrs Marianne Jelved is a woman, but because Mrs Marianne Jelved is a very, very talented politician. I have never said and could never dream of saying that men are worth more than women and vice versa. What I am trying to say is that there are some reasons why different people are paid different salaries. This is because people have different priorities. This is one of the reasons why people get different salaries. This is because you have different priorities, you choose different courses, you have different wishes for how much you want to work, etc. etc. Of course, it plays a role in what kind of pay you can get. After all, wages are merely the result of some choices and of how good you are at what you do. I guess that's what equality is basically about. For me, therefore, equality is not about getting the same salary if you do not deliver the same effort. It may be because we are doing it in here that we have become so used to that thinking, but that is not how it works in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150323	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150327	Well, that is why today's theme is not about differences in pay between men and women as such, but about equal pay for equal work. A teacher who has 26 hours in primary school receives the same salary regardless of whether it is a man or a woman. At least that is how it is arranged there, and fortunately it has been so for many years. And that is why you can also see that there are in fact more male teachers who are willing to take longer maternity leave because the pay gap between women and men is not there. So I ask again: could we not have a discussion on equal pay for equal work? What does the Liberal Alliance think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150410	Equal pay for equal work that sounds very simple, but it's just not simple in the real world. In other words, the primary school teacher who teaches 26 hours a week does not necessarily do as good a job as another primary school teacher who also teaches 26 hours a week. They are, for example. not necessarily equally good at raising the academic level of pupils. I think it should be the case that teachers who are skilled in raising pupils' professional level receive a higher salary than those who are not, whether they are men or women. I think that would be fair. It has nothing to do with gender, it has something to do with the effort you deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150457	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150509	In the alternative, we are pleased that the government in this legal text states that it recognises the need for companies to work actively with the pay gap between men and women. But we simply do not buy the argument that it is only companies with 35 full-time or over employees and with 10 from each sex in the same working position that need to contribute to solving the social problem that we also have in Denmark, with the lack of equal pay in practice. In the draft law's comments, there is a contradiction, and we have also heard this in several rapporteur speeches today, between making self-employment easier and more attractive on the one hand and the legal requirement for gender-based pay statistics on the other. This contradiction is based on the assumption that those who do business have only profit in mind, and we simply do not believe in that in the alternative. Somewhere I think that out of that attitude and that foundation there are a great many of the differences that I feel in the Chamber today. Because we simply do not believe that just because you are a small company that is going to the big market, you do not want to take responsibility for social sustainability too, for the social challenges we have in the labour market in relation to equal pay. We have been shot in the shoes that we do not want to work for companies to grow and make profits, but we do. At the same time, however, we want companies to have the opportunity, which everyone deserves, to work actively for equality. As we have heard, the pay gap in Denmark between men and women is somewhere between 15 and 20 per cent, and out of that there is 7 per cent, which is an inexplicable pay difference. As the hearing answers say, the SFI has established that this inequality is precisely the greatest in small businesses. And pay statistics can help to give small businesses an incentive to work actively in everyday life with this unexplained difference. We're not giving them that opportunity with this bill and this roll-back of the law. It is an old truth that to solve a problem it is good to know something about it, because then you typically solve it better. In this case, statistics will actually make it easier for many more companies to help solve some of the gender challenges that we have in our society and that manifest themselves in individual jobs, not least in small businesses. The rules that this bill is going to roll back were drawn up to address the lack of impact in the old legislation. That's something the SFI, among other things. points out in its evaluation of the old system. That is why we find it actually strange that the government is insisting on building on some failed experience with its roll-back of legislation. So, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked, "and AC mentions it in the consultation answers, and so does the Institute for Human Rights: Why is it that the evaluation of the new scheme is not awaited in 2019 before you start making legislative changes?" Nevertheless, the government chooses to put forward this bill at this stage, and we think that, first of all, is really a pity, and secondly, we are actually wondering about it. Well, we have a sincere surprise that you are actually choosing to table this bill right now. I am tempted to ask: What are you afraid of? I am not going to be the one to talk about courage from up here, but I still think it's strange, because it's not because it takes a lot more money. Pay statistics must be provided in advance. We've heard that before. We are awaiting the evaluation that is planned. There is, in fact, no extra burden. In any case, we have not been able to get a very good answer as to what the extra burden would be, so why do we do so? The Enhedslisten's rapporteur insinuated that the bourgeois parties do not want equality and equal pay, and I think that is actually quite wrong. We very much recognise that this is a broad wish in the Folketing, but I think that the government, the bourgeois parties, may have misjudged the business community in some way. Because I believe, and we believe in the alternative, that the business community would like to be involved in this, and we think it is such a pity that they are deprived of the opportunity to do so. That is why, unfortunately, in the alternative, we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112150951	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151008	Thank you. For the Radical Left, this is an absolutely crucial objective in our political work or it is at least one of our objectives that we want equal pay for equal work as something completely common in Denmark, and it is much, much more difficult than one might think. As far back as I can remember and it's now a few years we've been discussing these things and the inequalities behind the desire. For women there are, of course, completely legal some negotiations between the employer and the employee about the salary, and sometimes they take place individually. That is why I have come to a conclusion at this time when I want to say that I believe that good advice for women and young girls who are in the process of training is that they also demand that they receive training in their training programmes on how to negotiate wage development. It may sound awkward, but I think it is a task for the Students' Council at the various educational institutions to take up that theme so that you are prepared for it, and you can easily get a lot of good advice around by good male employees from companies who will come and give an explanation of why they think men are harder and better in terms of negotiating their wages than women are. Knowledge of inequality is crucial for doing something about it, which is why it is really a pity with radical eyes when it comes to what was at least an attempt to get a pay statistics that should make it more concrete and more present, also on smaller companies, where wage differences are actually greater than those of larger companies, if we are to rely on SFI's analyses, and I do. For then we need to bring the pay gap into the light and turn it into a general knowledge that we have and that can equip ourselves to work for, no matter what sex we then represent, that we get equal pay for equal work. What is also a pity in the current draft law, which replaces what was an attempt to produce a more comprehensive wage statistics that hit more jobs than otherwise, is that it is even more difficult to make new demands so that they should receive Denmark's Statistics's pay statistics in percentages, the pay gap in percentages, instead of average in kroner and ear. It's actually much harder to operate with percentages than it is to do it with crowns and ears in this type of case, and it's probably pure psychology. It's public education we're talking about. We are talking about how we can inform not just the employees who are in the jobs, but the people as a whole of what kind of society we have and where there are inequalities that we would like to address and the nature of those inequalities. It is important that it becomes a topic of conversation at Sunday lunch and many other places where we sit down and discuss how society feels. It is also a pity that there will be even fewer companies to deliver the wage statistics in the way we would like to see them, namely by moving from a requirement of 35 employees to 35 full-time employees. This leads to fewer companies doing it, and that again is a shame and why this? In other words, it is as if the government we have now sits, unfortunately, I have to say do everything it can, just as giving worse conditions for discussing equal pay for equal work and making it a theme that will play a role in many different areas. The bill that comes after this, which we shall be discussing in a moment, where it appears that fathers and mothers take different types and lengths of maternity leave, is basically about pay. Therefore, it is important that we do not give up, but that we find our own ways, and we are then more progressive, and who would like to see this whole theme made an agenda-setting thing in our associations and in our family life etc. Because it concerns all of us, and it helps to create a better society if we have equal pay for equal work than the society we have today. This also means that we must do what we can to equip the employees who, in the workplace, must try to obtain a hearing in order to be included in the pay statistics which can be made very simple at a workplace. Well, these aren't huge calculations we're talking about here, it's information. So L 89 is a step backwards and it is regrettable, it is even a lot but I hope we are more about doing it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151530	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151540	17% is the average difference between men and women's hourly earnings. Some of the difference can be explained by the level of education and seniority, but 5-7 per cent. The difference is quite inexplicable and must be seen as a real discrimination on grounds of sex. Equal pay for equal work must any person with a sense of justice be able to join in or what? The SFI has figured out that if the effort for equal pay takes place at the rate we see now, we will only have equal pay in Denmark in 111 years • 111 years! This means that it is neither in my life nor in the life of my children. We have a nearly 40-year-old equal pay law, which everyone supports on festive occasions, but when it comes to actually taking responsibility for creating equal pay, it looks a little more sluggish. In 2006 it was widely agreed in the Folketing that the larger companies in Denmark should conduct gender-based pay statistics with the aim of better monitoring wage developments and dialogue on wage differences in the workplace. But it turned out, among other things. in SFI's study that only one third of companies lived up to it, both because they did not know about the provision and because they did not know how to use gender-based pay statistics. So the individual companies did not really live up to the trend in equal pay. The previous government therefore decided, with the support of among others. SF to repair a law that did not work, by making it easier for companies to create gender-based pay statistics, but also by extending it to include small and medium-sized enterprises, which are a large part of the Danish employee's employment area. That change of law was not even allowed to work and be evaluated as planned, in 2019, before the current government decided to roll it back, well to notice without putting anything else in place. So the question is quite fundamental: do you think that the pay gap between men and women is a problem, and do you think that this is something that calls for political action? And, of course, it's also about what you want to do about it and what tools you believe in works. In the SF, we believe that it is unfair that discrimination is discriminated against and discriminated against on grounds of gender, and we see the fight for equal pay as a key to gender equality. We will not accept that women are underpaid in relation to their male colleagues. What, then, does it take to correct that injustice? There must be openness and transparency. In this way, wage differences can be seen, and gender-based wage statistics can contribute to this. And there must be dialogue and joint responsibility. Responsibility applies to both employers and employees, and this requires both sides to have equal access to the information on wages and salaries available, including wage statistics. And that requires that the dialogue actually takes place. With this bill, it will only happen if the employer considers it appropriate to take the initiative. For well enough, companies are now receiving pay statistics from Danmarks Statistik, but they are not obliged to share the employees with them. And then, of course, it takes political responsibility to put equal pay on the political agenda. This bill is a step backwards even before one has found out how the step that was just about to be taken actually works and therefore SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151917	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151921	Thank you. The rapporteur refers to a figure of 17 per cent. I do not know where the rapporteur has it from. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur refers to a gross wage difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151934	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151937	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151940	Then I would like to follow up on whether the rapporteur recognises that it is the corrected pay gap that gives the most accurate picture of the differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112151949	Yes, and I think I actually said that, so there are parts of the pay gap that can be explained, but then there is also an inexplicable difference in pay, and that is what interests me, because that is what indicates that there is actually no equal pay for equal work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152005	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The last in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152014	Thank you. There should be no doubt that we in the Conservative People's Party want equal pay for equal work. If you have the same education, the same amount of experience, the same skills and qualifications, the monthly payout should not be lower simply because you happen to suffer from the privilege of being a woman. Equal pay is progressing in Denmark, but hardly anyone in this Chamber believes that it is moving fast enough. We cannot be satisfied with equal pay in 111 years' time, if the current rate continues, according to the article that Berlingske brought before Christmas. But what is the root of the nettle? I can't help asking myself. Like one of the previous rapporteurs, I do not believe that there are many employers who sit and think about themselves: what is a woman, I just draw 5-10 per cent. She's not worth as much because she's a woman. I simply do not think so, but of course I cannot rule out the existence of a few, but I do not think that is the general picture. I think that the core of the problem is that many women put their light under a bushel and do not know their own value, and that is why it is easier to accept the wage bill that comes from the boss. Too few banks on the table and say that is not good enough! I think it is a mental challenge for many women, at least in my own company, when I discuss wages with them. In addition, I also find it crazy to deny that in many homes women continue to undertake a greater task in relation to the household and young people, and that is why you might rather ask the boss for more flexibility, such as homework days, than necessarily more in the payroll, depending on the value of life for the individual. As a politician, I am not going to judge what the good life is, that must be defined in the individual family. We politicians can push for equal pay, but I do not think we are the ones who solve the problem. It is clear that the legislation lays down the formal framework for equal treatment, which all employers must respect, and the wage structure for men and women must, of course, follow the principle of equal treatment. However, we must also be careful about what we impose on companies for this purpose, because we cannot be guaranteed for the effect. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party believe that the government's proposal is positive and supports it. It makes better sense to raise the limit to companies with at least 35 employees, as these companies are also covered by the rules on information, consultation of employees and thus have a firm structure for cooperation between management and employees, which we think is useful in having these talks. With these words, we support the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152310	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152315	Thank you. Is it the impression or opinion of the Conservative People's Party that this draft law places a burden on companies? And if the rapporteur wishes to answer yes to that, then the rapporteur may make a suggestion as to what kind of burdens are actually being relieved. My second question is: is it the rapporteur's impression that there are problems in current legislation with anonymity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152345	I have seen the answers given on anonymity, and that is not immediately what concerns me most. That is also why I have not highlighted it in my speech today. I think it's hard to figure out these codes and exactly how much you should be able to figure out. But it was a deliberate choice that I did not mention it in my speech. In relation to this one with a burden on the business community: I think it is certainly necessary to take it seriously when consultation answers are received from the Danish Employers' Association, for example, in which it is written that it would be considered a burden relief not to have to deal with and discuss the statistics. The employers' association of the financial sector also mentions the treatment of statistics as a burden relief. I am aware that the reporting to Statistics Denmark must be made regardless of what, so it is not there that I see a burden relief, but I think that we must respect the answer that employers themselves have given, after all, it is they who are sitting here with it every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152440	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152443	Well, thank you for the answer about anonymity. It makes it easier to have this discussion. We don't have to agree, but it makes it easier if we kind of agree on the facts. Compared to this, companies have to live up to the equal pay law. Whether this law is implemented or not, they are subject to it. And it is, of course, about equal pay for equal work, so that we must not discriminate. So these 7% that the pay committee thinks is going on and that can't be explained, we're going to have to exterminate. That's what payroll statistics are meant to do. I assume you'll agree with that, since you're not going to roll the whole law back. But how is it going to give us better tools to put an end to the fact that there are fewer companies taking these important discussions with their employees? I don't see how we're going in the right direction with this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152546	Actually, I don't think we're ever gonna make it to the 7%. I'm gonna kill you. I do not think we should do that either, in the sense that I do not believe that we should necessarily strive for complete equality if there are some women who have other priorities. I mean, if there are some women who have different priorities, then we must respect that. Then there was another question about how this helps them along the way. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I think this is a lot about women making this movement. I think it was an exciting suggestion that Mrs Marianne Jelved had earlier on about training and training in pay talks. I remember my first conversation. Well, I wasn't very qualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152625	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152629	Thank you. The rapporteur started by saying that there should be no doubt that the Conservative People's Party is in favour of equal pay for the same work. And that is what we are discussing here today, which Mrs Marianne Jelved so emphatically established. That's fine. But can the rapporteur not understand that this doubt arises when one sees and hears the rapporteur support a draft law which drastically reduces employees' chances of pursuing the objective of equal pay for equal work? After all, there is a reason why this gender-based pay statistics has been introduced, and the rapporteur must be in favour of this when it comes to large companies. That is because it must be the tool that employees and businesses need to bring closer to the objective that the rapporteur says the rapporteur has. Because that equal pay doesn't come on its own. That is the argument that women also have to use when they are out negotiating wages on companies. So when the rapporteur is deliberately in favour of reducing the rights of workers today, it is no wonder that we are questioning whether the rapporteur really means it by means of equal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152738	In the Conservative People's Party, we are certainly serious about equal pay, but I think the rapporteur should recognise that sometimes we politicians can see different ways of achieving an objective that we can share. I do not think that, as politicians, we are helping each other by talking up the differences more than they are. In this particular case, we have considered from the Conservative side that the effect that might be because I also recognise that there can be an equal pay effect in this case, we do not believe that we are in line with what it imposes on companies. And that is an assessment that needs to be made on a case-by-case basis. We could easily achieve equal pay in Denmark by introducing a very, very violent legislation here from the Danish Parliament, but we also have the recognition, for example, that employers and employees agree things out locally, so I really think that we respect that we have a common goal, but that we have different ways of achieving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152831	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152835	Thank you. I can easily acknowledge that. In this particular case, however, the rapporteur and the other bourgeois parties do not indicate a way forward. It is, of course, a proposal which unilaterally reduces the rights of employees and the ability of employees to work their way towards equal pay for the same work. After all, there is no alternative: it is just a deterioration of the current opportunities to fight for equal pay for the same work. So the only burden taken away from employers is a duty to sit down and discuss equal pay for equal work with employees. That's the essence of this bill. That is the tax exemption that employers have. How could this promote equal pay for the same work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112152928	I believe that the fundamental difference between the rapporteur's and my view is that I do not believe that politicians can solve everything. This problem is solved primarily by the fact that we women get better at telling each other that we have to knock on the table if we are not satisfied with the wage bill that comes from the boss. I myself have been surprised when I have talked to my female acquaintances and friends about how reluctant they are to pay. I think we are going to be the longest in the world when, as politicians, we start talking about how important it is for women to have the courage to take this fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153000	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153004	I would just like to address the last thing the rapporteur said, namely that politicians cannot solve everything. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. But I do not believe that the individual woman can solve everything herself. That's one of them. Therefore, we have such a great model in Denmark; it is something that employers and employees' representatives sit together and negotiate. I just want to ask you a question. Since there are different ways of creating equal pay, why is it that the two sides, namely employers and employees, have to be put differently in the dialogue that must be about wage differences?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153053	Several questions were asked. The last thing I just noticed was why you have to be different from information. It can be said that both an employer and a worker are familiar with their own pay situation. That information, however, is common. After all, there are opportunities for that I have used myself to look up what exists in pay statistics. With the education I have, with the experience I have, what is the average in my area? It does not need to be centered just around the individual small workplace. There are plenty of available statistics that you can look up with. So that way, I actually think you as a woman can get the information you can benefit from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153135	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp for the second time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153139	But I also heard before the rapporteur say that the rapporteur did not really believe that they were there 7%. It was ever possible to remove, and at the same time the emphasis is also placed here at the end, at least that it seems to be up to the individual woman to provide equal pay. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the message of the individual woman's own equal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153207	No, I can't confirm that because I didn't say that at any time. Compared to the 7%. Nor does the rapporteur correctly quote me. What I said was, I don't think we're ever gonna get rid of it. I think we are getting very far, but I recognise that there may be a split back that is based on different preferences, namely more flexibility rather than more in the payroll. As to whether it is the individual responsibility of the individual woman, we do not escape the fact that when the rapporteur sits in a pay negotiation with his boss it is not quite the case here that it is a one-to-one. Then you sit and look a person in the eye and ask for what you think you are worth in salary, and in that case it is an individual responsibility in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153249	Thank you. We shall now turn to the next brief remark, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153253	Thank you. Well, it's fine that women have to learn how to knock on the table, and it's also good that women obviously have to straighten their backs a little more. But then the only question is whether it is only women who have to take that debate. What about the men? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153318	Well, I think it's a good thing if there are men who want to tell their female colleagues that they have to demand more in pay. I'd think that was superduper. But if we're gonna get rid of this pay gap, it's in the negotiating room that the magic is gonna happen. We're not gonna get out of this. No matter how much we do here on the part of the Danish Parliament, it is in the negotiating room that the results have to be fulfilled. And if there are male bosses, of course, they can contribute that way. However, it will not be forgotten that it is the individual who is in the situation who has to negotiate it home. I think there are more women who are not quite so aware of their own value and who may think that it is a little unpleasant to have to say to the boss: no, I would like to have more in pay. It may be that we disagree on whether there is that gender difference, but it is my clear impression that more women find it difficult, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153409	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153413	Thank you. Then the question is this: we cannot solve this whole pay gap, as the rapporteur says. It gets a little touching and doing and feeling something, I think, because then the question is whether equal pay and thus equal opportunities cannot be measured using statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153438	With the statistics we have available today, one cannot measure whether a woman has entered the negotiating room and has said that you know what, I don't need any more pay, but it would be very flexible if I could leave early every Thursday and Friday, because there I am picking up children or if I could get a homework day a week. I think we should have this kind of flexibility. It is an individual choice, and it is therefore difficult to measure in statistics. That's why I don't think we're gonna get the whole 7%. I'm gonna kill you. In my opinion, the rest of it must be justified, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153511	Then we are through the rapporteur's line and we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153522	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs. The government wants there to be equal pay between men and women when they do the same work of course. I don't think any of Parliament's parties disagree with that. Where there may be disagreement is how best to support further work in reducing the pay gap still between men and women, and the debate here today has clearly shown this. So I would like to sum up why I and the government want to change the rules on gender-based pay statistics. The government's bill will create a relevant and workable tool to clarify whether there is an equal pay problem in a company. For the government does not believe that it gives more equal pay out on the individual company that many will be sent a pay statistics for employees who do not do the same work. In those companies which do not have men and women doing the same work, gender-based pay statistics will not say anything about whether there is an equal pay problem in the company. The government also wants to restore the previous link between the rules on gender-based pay statistics and the rules on information and consultation of employees. In this way, we make use of the established structure of cooperation between management and employees, which the social partners have helped to define. This is why it is clear from the draft law that gender-based pay statistics are for the purposes of informing and consulting employees about wage differences between men and women in the company. The law on information and consultation of employees states that the information must be made available, if possible, in written form. As companies receive gender-based pay statistics from Danmarks Statistik or from an employer's organisation or prepare it themselves, account has been taken of the possibility for employees' representatives to be provided with gender-based pay statistics. Let it be quite clear. Finally, we insist that companies are provided free of charge with gender-based pay statistics from Statistics Denmark or an employers' organisation. In this way, we improve companies' knowledge of the rules on gender-based pay statistics and we support companies' compliance with the rules. Equal pay doesn't come through rules alone. The rules must provide the best possible framework for the work of creating equal pay, and this work requires the cooperation, will and commitment of the social partners. This is true at organizational level when agreements are negotiated, and this is true at the individual workplace. I hope that both employers and employees with the new rules and the improved service of companies will take up the challenge of reducing gender pay differences. Finally, may I mention to Mrs Marianne Jelved, who stated that there were demands in the 35 full-time employee bill, that it is true that the draft law in the external consultation contained such a demarcation, but when we became aware that it was different from the law on information and consultation of employees, and became aware of the consequences of it, it was corrected so that the draft law as it stands contains requirements for 35 employees and not 35 full-time employees. I am now looking forward to the work being done in the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153932	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112153936	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister agrees with himself that anonymity is not a problem in current legislation. And I would also like to ask whether the Minister agrees that the only burden relief experienced by companies is that they do not have to discuss with their employees or employee representatives when problems arise because of pay statistics, i.e. when they get a pay statistics home which show that something is actually worth talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154008	It is clear, as the existing law has been drafted, that the previous government has done much to ensure that no anonymity problems arise. It is clear that the lower a cell size there is, the greater a theoretical risk there is for anonymity problems. This has not been the determining factor for us, but it is the case that with the cell size that is down to in the existing law, there are significant biases in relation to general validity or validation of statistics. That's one. The second is unfortunately, it can be said as far as the existing law is concerned that when you are down to that cell size, it does not necessarily say anything relevant about equal pay problems in the company in question because there is no requirement that men and women should do the same as the basis for the pay information contained in the statistics. And so the statistics for many small businesses become completely meaningless.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154106	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154109	The Minister must return just now and also remember to answer the question of burden relief that I asked just now. In relation to what the Minister answers about anonymity and the usefulness of these statistics, it can be said that now the cut is equal to 35 employees. However, it is not the case that a statistic with 34 employees should be useless and that a statistic with 35 employees should be useful. In other words, a lot of cuts are being made in relation to how many companies there are now not going to have these talks about the figures. I find that problematic, but leave it at that. In the comments to the bill, on page 6, the Minister for Employment and the Government writes that the draft law has negative effects on equality, i.e. this bill is something that weakens equality. Will the Minister not elaborate on what is being referred to there? This impression is not given when you hear the Minister's Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154202	I must draw attention to the fact that speaking time must be respected. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154207	It is a relief to the administrative burden on businesses that management in a lot of small businesses should not take the initiative of having talks with employees about something that is fundamentally meaningless, because it does not necessarily say anything at all about potential equal pay problems in the company. At least that's one factor. Another is that, with the methodological demarcation made in the government's legislative proposal, we are sure that it is very valid information that is provided to the companies and the employees who receive the information. Therefore, they can form the basis for reflection on, for example: to bring proceedings before the courts or the Equal Treatment Board. What's the last of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154256	There are other opportunities to discuss this. Speaking time's up. And the next one, sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154300	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there are no problems with the issue of equal pay for equal work in companies with fewer than 35 employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154314	You can see from case law, from complaints that there may be equal pay problems in all types of companies. If there is a presumption that there are equal pay problems in a company, then it should of course be addressed, for example. in relation to the Equal Treatment Board. We want this, and there are requirements in the legislation for equal pay for equal work, and it is the managers of companies who are responsible for ensuring it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154343	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154347	Thank you to the Minister for the recognition that there are probably also problems with equal pay for equal work in companies with fewer than 35 employees. That is also confirmed. I think it is the Social Research Institute that says that the difference between men and women in wages is greatest in small businesses, i.e... the category below 35. I would just like to ask why we want to reduce the tool that makes it possible to work and work together in the individual company by weakening the requirements of equal pay statistics and working with it, thus weakening employees' rights. If you recognise that there is a problem of equality in terms of pay, why weaken the tool that needs to be used to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154441	This is because the tool is not necessarily workable and does not necessarily say anything about potential equal pay problems in the company concerned. It is not fair to small businesses that they should receive material from Copenhagen which they are obliged to discuss with their employees if it has no statistical validity in relation to equal pay problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154501	Thank you. And the next brief remark is from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154506	Thank you. The Vice-President of the HK has been expressing his concern that this law should be withdrawn. One of the arguments is that transparency and the knowledge that comes with it disappear with the introduction of such a legislative proposal that the possibility of these statistics disappears. The concern is expressed by Mette Kindberg, who says that with the roll-back of the equal pay law it is clear that one does not want to work actively to reduce wage differences between men and women doing work of equal value. I really want to hear what the Minister's comment is on the concern expressed by HK.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154554	The government wants equal pay for equal work. We want to work actively for it, and we look forward to working on the gender-separated labour market on the basis of SFI statements this year. When we do not want to apply the existing legislation, it is because it is not valid in relation to a lot of small businesses. And it is not okay to force companies to discuss something that is statistically not valid in relation to equal pay for equal work in the particular company.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154623	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154626	But the way I read, among other things. HK's Vice-President's comments do not seem to be there. After all, it's a question of whether you want to use this knowledge, this tool that the pay statistics provide, or whether you don't want to. And what I am actually hearing from the Minister is that this will not be done because it will create some unnecessary problem, perhaps some additional burden, and that it is not valid. But can't we at least wait for an evaluation so that we can see what the result is before you start saying that this doesn't work? Isn't it a little early to quit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154705	No, it is not too early, because it is not valid, and it is a distortion of the debate that should take place in a company when we talk about equal pay. To force companies to discuss the pay gap between, for example: 17 male electricians and 5 female HKs in the company in question have no meaning. It is not a question of equal work and therefore, on the basis of such information, we should not force the company to hold such discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154728	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154732	I'm just gonna try to understand what the minister said. Is it correct to understand that the Minister said that companies should not be burdened with receiving pay statistics? And if that is true, why does the Minister have it in the draft law as it stands? Why hasn't it been tampered with by the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154758	Businesses must be serviced by providing valid wage statistics that they can use in a qualified debate with their employees on whether there are potential equal pay problems in the company, and that is what we ensure with the requirement for the six-digit DISCO codes • the size of the company that we have put into this bill. That is why we have ensured that our legislative proposal can form the basis for further legal processing or negotiation, if that is what you wish. This is not guaranteed by the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154829	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154833	[Sound emission]... so that the burden lies in obliging companies to have a dialogue with employees on wage differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154844	When I used the term 'deliberate', it was linked to discussions on something that was not meaningful in relation to equal pay in the particular company, for example. Because you compare the pay between 17 male electricians and 5 female HKs. It has nothing to do with equal pay for equal work-considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154901	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154906	Well, you can say a lot, but pay statistics • and that is also what several of the consultation answers say • helps employees out in the workplace, especially if you have to negotiate wages later on etc. etc. So if you remove the tool that is, you will also remove an advantage for the employees. What is the Minister going to replace?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112154931	It is no disadvantage for anyone to remove wage statistics that are not valid in relation to the subject under discussion. And at macro level there are plenty of wage statistics from Danmarks Statistik, from professional organizations and others, where, if you wish, you can go in and for different professional groups compare wages for men and women in different functions. We just want the equal pay statistics to be valid where we force companies to have interviews with employees on equal pay statistics. And that's what we're gonna make sure of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155003	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155006	Now the employees are most interested in the company in which they work, which is why it is also interesting for them to see if there is now equal pay there. For there are some companies where you find that there is actually a statistical difference in wages, even if the same is produced. But my question is this: does the Minister not care whether employees will be able to obtain statistics that will help them in their specific workplace?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155043	No, I'm actually preoccupied with a secure and valid statistic. I am concerned that it is ensured that where such statistics are received there is in companies where there is a basis for discussing these matters • information and consultation • where there is a point of departure for the parties to the agreement to continue working on them and where there is a professional basis which means that if there is a presumption that there are problems, there is statistical evidence to be able to take it up or report it to the equal treatment board or courts. That is what we are ensuring, and that is what is by no means ensured by the smaller companies in the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155123	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155139	The debate is open. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. The first is from the Social Democrats, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155157	Thank you, President. The Socialists believe that it is important that we strengthen women's incentives to become self-employed and thus improve wage compensation for maternity leave for both men and women. We do not believe that it is sustainable that less than a third of the more than 20,000 new entrepreneurs are women. The previous government carried out L 194 to ensure this. This created the basis for the equal treatment of employees and self-employed persons with regard to social security in connection with pregnancy, childbirth and adoption. In doing so, we also laid the foundations for a stronger equality between self-employed workers and employees, which is just as opposed to the fact that women are economically worst off in the event of maternity. I think that is one of them. is worth listening to the LO and FTF, which emphasise that the draft law will have clear gender equality implications for both sexes, and not least the Craft Council, which represents 18,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, among others. Dofk, who writes that they are deeply frustrated by the prospect that the Barsel Foundation will close before it gets started. Worse still, the Craft Council believes that the closure will be a major step backwards for equality and especially for young women. What goes back to the hearings is precisely that there is a need for a maternity compensation scheme implemented by the former Socialist-led government. And why shut down something that's in demand? There have been start-up problems, but why not solve them instead of completely abolishing the scheme? The Socialists hope that the government will come up with a similar regime revised, otherwise we will just have the status quo and cannot create a basis for self-employed people, for whom there is clearly a demand. We ask: what is the alternative? What is the alternative to the current rules? What should create improved equality for self-employed people? We Social Democrats believe that rights that guarantee the possibility of being with your child in the first time are important. We want a labour market where it is easy for both mother and father to realise their entrepreneurial dreams without having to abandon their parents' dreams, which the abolition of maternity compensation for self-employed workers does not support. That is why the Socialists cannot support the bill to repeal the law on maternity compensation for self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155431	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155436	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether I heard it correctly that the rapporteur said that this maternity compensation scheme for self-employed workers has had start-up problems. Is it not true that, for 2015, all the collections have been cancelled, for example, collections have been made, for example? pensioners who have just been elected once? They have also been charged for being part of this maternity compensation scheme for self-employed persons. So it is, in fact, an expression of the fact that legislation has been made back in 2013, which certainly does not work, and that is why the proposal is about repealing the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155527	After all, it is an honest thing to say that there is a system that has had difficulty in getting started. And that is true, and the Minister has said so before that there have been some problems that way. But then why just shut it down? Why not open the door for us to negotiate and for us to discuss together what we should do then and how we can then adapt the current legislation so that it actually works? Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155556	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155600	I think that the Financial Committee back in October or November decided on the extra cost of about 30 million. kr. That's a lot of money for a scheme that doesn't work. This is probably more an expression of the fact that the previous government was very, very busy so busy that it stumbled on the road to establishing a new law to set up a maternity compensation scheme for self-employed people. And then we're left here with an area that certainly doesn't work. And perhaps it is just to make it a little short to say that there have been start-up problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155640	In other words, it can be said that the employers' organisation The Crafts Council has pointed out in this way that there are no insurmountable challenges in current legislation. So there's no need to just pour it out with the bath water. Let us now meet together, let us now look together at how we can make this work, instead of simply abolishing something that would be of great benefit, especially for the equality of women who are self-employed in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155707	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112155716	Hello, Chairman. After all, this draft law on maternity compensation for self-employed workers came into force under the former government. It was in this way that anyone who has a self-employed activity or who receives B-income in the form of a fee had to pay a contribution of 328 DKK. annual. It has then turned out that for those who had to pay, it has been very difficult to understand administratively. If you get a small fee of perhaps 5,000-6,000 kroner, you have to pay for this scheme. It was also this scheme that meant that those who had established solar cells, solar panels on their houses, were considered as independent operators who had to pay for the scheme. There were a lot of problems. It is not the case that the Danish People's Party does not believe that we should have a maternity scheme for the self-employed; it should just be done in the right way. This arrangement, which has been so far, does not work according to the intention we at least think there was. It is quite unreasonable that those who have a small income from something independent, as Mr. Hans Andersen, you have to pay for this scheme. If the target group gets in, we are down to 45,000 people, as the bill says. But it would be a very expensive scheme if you had to pick out those who had the very small income and had to pay. How to ensure that it becomes a system for working with and dealing with is what the government has tried to find out, but has not come up with a solution yet. I also understand that it is the case that the government has not given up on finding a system, but that the system is being abolished here precisely because of the inappropriateness of it. The problem is also that it was intended for entrepreneurship women. Women, who were entrepreneurs, should have an easy approach to it. They should be able to have maternity leave. But this also led to the question of whether an entrepreneur can be away from his business, how much he must take part in the work, and whether he can afford to be too much away if he has started up as an entrepreneur without the work he has done so far being lost. These are also some of the issues that need to be properly addressed. I know that there are opportunities for working a little side by side if you are a self-employed person or an entrepreneur, but that is far from the best for them. I am also aware of some people who have said: well then we might as well shut down while we go on maternity leave. We cannot be away from our business ourselves for as long as is actually required. It is also a problem that needs to be addressed, and you have to see if you can make it more relaxed. And I hope that the government will take this into account when it comes to whether or not we can make a new arrangement. But in the Danish People's Party we do not have a solution in the form of an optimal arrangement. We can just see that this is problematic, and that's why we support this bill. This also means that those who have embarked on it before the entry into force of the law can, of course, keep their maternity leave and receive support there. However, this is a problematic system, as we see it, but we also believe that work must, of course, continue to be done to find a solution for those who are going on maternity leave, whether it be women or men.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160056	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160100	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I am pleased that the rapporteur says so clearly that there should be a system so that the self-employed can also be covered by a maternity scheme. I am glad to hear that, and it is fair enough that you do not have a specific proposal for it. We must work on that together. However, what amazes me a little is that the rapporteur has obviously been given the impression that the government is also working to find a solution other than that which is being shut down here. Can the rapporteur say anything about what he has to do with it? And if you want to, why should you scrap the previous scheme instead of just patting the horse a little and finding a way to solve the financing problem and then get a more durable solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160150	Well, that's what the Minister for Employment has been talking about during the run-up to this bill. And the impression is that the Minister for Employment has not given up on finding a solution but does not have an optimal solution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160205	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160207	Thank you. At least I am relatively fond of the joyful message. And then I look forward to putting the minister on the platform when it becomes his turn, and then we have to try to ferret him out a little bit about the direction in which his thoughts are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160220	I have no comment to make on the fact that Mr. Finn Sørensen is looking forward to putting the minister on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160230	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160237	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the rapporteur's speech. I took note of what the rapporteur said in his speech, that is to say that we must find a solution for those who want to have maternity leave in another way. I fully agree with that, and that is also what my own rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has said. Kasper Roug, said on the platform, that if something does not work, you have to either repair it, or you have to try to find something else that you can make work. Because what is likely to happen here today, if I can count the votes correctly, is that the government is given a mandate to clear this up. That doesn't solve the problem. On the contrary, we are just back at the status quo. So what do we do? Where does the Danish People's Party stand? From the Social Democratic point of view, we have said clearly that we are trying to repair this law or sit down in the Ministry of Employment together with the Danish People's Party and everyone else who wants to help solve it here, and try to find other initiatives that could strengthen entrepreneurship among women and also ensure better maternity conditions for entrepreneurs, self-employed people, etc. Is DF in on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160341	Well, this bill eliminates the problems that exist. I think we agree that it is inappropriate for a solar cell owner to pay for a maternity allowance, that is, for a pensioner who has established himself as a solar cleaner to pay for it, or for a fee recipient who has been out giving a lecture and gets 5,000 kroner. or 10,000 kroner. It is therefore unreasonable that, if you have a small income, you should pay for something you can never benefit from yourself. There is also a problem here with entrepreneurs, i.e. how much they have to leave their small business that they are stacking on their feet if it is a matter of maternity. There are some issues. Now we say yes to removing this law, and those who are in the process may be allowed to continue. But it is also obvious from the Danish People's Party that we have to find a solution, and we should like to continue working on this in the spring. It is not the attitude of the government that you will try to find a solution before, but where there are problems you will have them removed with this bill. We still have the group left who would like to have maternity leave. We also believe in the Danish People's Party that we must find a solution, but we do not have the optimal solution for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160459	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160501	But it could be that we could find the best solution together. The best way to find it is to enter into a dialogue and enter into a debate. So I would like to hear the Danish People's Party, if we didn't join together when the minister doesn't invite us for coffee to talk about this... should invite the minister for coffee and get a dialogue on how we can solve the problems that are unsolved when you roll this law back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160528	Now I don't know if the Minister would like to invite the Social Democratic Party for coffee and talk about this. The Minister may want to do so. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff can, of course, test whether the Minister was interested in it when the Minister comes to the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160544	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160547	Thank you. Yes, yes, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Now Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, of course, that it is in relation to this bill, and it is clear that you invite for coffee. It sounds like DF like the rest of us would like to find a solution to this problem, but it also sounds as if DF is very confident and believes that it will be dealt with by the government. Does DF have any agreement with the government that it should:
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160630	We do not have an agreement in writing, but it is my impression that the Minister, like the Social Democratic Party, is interested in finding a solution, and the Danish People's Party is also interested in finding a solution. This coffee meeting may also be about a new proposal for a maternity leave. It doesn't have to be about this bill. I assume that the Social Democratic Party would also like to come up for coffee to talk about new measures that might help them among the self-employed who need maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160656	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160658	Of course. But it's a little special to invite you to make coffee by simply closing down what's already and without saying why and what the background is for it. And then we must obviously have confidence that we will be invited to something that would so much like to do even better or at least make the scheme work. What does Mr. Bent Bøgsted that in the near future, of course, we will have to look at a scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160733	I agree. I absolutely believe that we must look as soon as possible at finding a system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160740	Then it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160744	Thank you. Now, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that the Minister for Employment did not have an optimal solution to the abolition of this law. But then the rapporteur also said that we are now saying yes to removing it, and then we have to work on it. I hear this as if DF is interested in having a maternity fund for self-employed people, so that we can provide, among other things. women entrepreneurs the opportunity to contribute both to our society with children, but also contribute in terms of their profession. I would really like to hear: now that there is such a willingness on the part of the DF in relation to a maternity fund, what initiatives will DF take so concretely to move forward with that we will just get repaired or put in place an alternative to this now that DF says yes to abolishing the law? Does DF have a concrete initiative, just one, for how to move forward from here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160846	Well, we do have that in the way that we talk to the Minister for Employment about how to solve the problem. Because the removal of this law means that we solve the problems of those who have a small income and yet pay for it. We also remove the problem for entrepreneurs who have to shut down their small business if they are going on maternity leave. Not all entrepreneurs can say: we just put someone else to run our business. You can't do that in a startup phase. This is a huge problem for entrepreneurs and, of course, we need to find a solution to that. So the Danish People's Party's initiative is that we talk further to the Minister for Employment about how we can find a solution for those who need maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160931	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112160935	I am a little confused because, on the one hand, the DF will not help repair a proposal that could improve and, on the other hand, did not accept the offer of a joint effort to talk to the Minister. The only thing the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party would like to do is to talk further. I think that when you say no to a legislative proposal, you must also have some specific initiative, an alternative just one example of what you want to go ahead with discussing how we can just allow the self-employed to go on maternity leave as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161012	Well, it is precisely to find a solution that covers the 45,000 that may potentially be covered by a maternity leave. The law in force includes 218,000, of which only 45,000 could potentially make use of the scheme, and that is where we need to find a solution for them. We must have sorted out all those who have a small income, as we say, that is. those who are paid on a fee and have a small income and those who have a small self-employment with a few thousand kroner in income and who will never be able to make use of the scheme. We're gonna have to take a look at that. Then we must find a solution that covers, among other things. entrepreneurs, but in a way so that they do not get into the situation that they have to shut down their small business. They may have to do so with the legislation that is in force today and that we are abolishing here. There are some who may have to close their small business, and we would like to avoid that. We should like to feel that entrepreneurs can drive on and still have good contact with their business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161111	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line with the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161131	With this bill, the government proposes to abolish the compulsory maternity compensation scheme for selfemployed workers, a compulsory scheme which in the autumn certainly did not work. A great many people, who could not be described as self-employed, received a levy on contributions to the maternity compensation scheme. This was what I mentioned earlier, for example. whether pensioners who had taken part in medical trials or had been subject to an election procedure cannot be described as a selfemployed person. This also meant that the Finance Committee back in October last year decided to cancel all contributions for 2015 to the scheme following the recommendation of the Minister of Employment. This meant 31 million in the first place. kr. in extra costs to the taxpayer, a very boring matter and a result of the fact that the adoption of the maternity compensation scheme back in 2013 under the previous government went too fast. A possible targeting of the scheme so that there will be as much coincidence between contributors and compensation recipients as possible would also mean that at least the compulsory contribution rate here would increase from 328 DKK. ed 1,500-1,600 kr. annual. And the marked increase in the contribution rate will not help to make it easier to be self-employed. Furthermore, we consider that the impact of a maternity compensation scheme on promoting and improving conditions for entrepreneurs and self-employed people will be very uncertain. Ase has previously carried out a study which shows that their members, i.e. the self-employed, are in favour of such a maternity compensation scheme. In fact, only one in ten self-employed persons in the study considers that a compulsory maternity compensation scheme solves the main difficulties experienced by self-employed workers in connection with maternity. And only about one in ten self-employed people imagine that a compulsory maternity compensation scheme will cause more young people to start their own business. In other words, the closure of the maternity compensation scheme does not alter the main challenges facing self-employed workers in the context of maternity leave, which is, of course, the fact that an independent person is away from his business and his customers. Already today, there is the possibility of half-time maternity leave or otherwise ensuring that one's business also lasts after a maternity leave. Overall, this bill means that we will end the compulsory maternity compensation scheme for self-employed people with additional costs of 50 million. kr., i.e. a very expensive and temporary measure. Against this background, the Left will support the bill to dismantle an arrangement that did not actually work when it came to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161436	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161440	Thank you. Does the rapporteur agree with the Danish People's Party that there should be a system in this area and can the rapporteur confirm that this is something with which the Minister for Employment is working or would like to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161456	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we do not believe that this maternity compensation scheme is, in general, the most important for ensuring and promoting growth and development in Denmark and for making it easier to be self-employed. We do not have any current plans to replace this useless maternity compensation scheme with a new maternity compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161528	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161529	Thank you for a very clear answer to one question as well. I always appreciate that. But then the conclusion must also be that the Danish People's Party has over-interpreted something and maybe have some rather naive hopes that haven't really got the impression that the government, and thus the Left too, should be working to find an alternative model for it, which is now wanted to be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161556	As I said, we do not have any current plans to put forward a new legislative proposal which would include a new model for a maternity compensation scheme. We believe that there are other ways in which we can promote growth and development, promote and improve the conditions of self-employed workers and also ensure that people actually go that way, even if they might at some point consider going on maternity leave. Because you can go on maternity leave. After all, you can go on maternity leave according to the general rules on cash benefits. That opportunity is already available today, and it will continue to be after today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161634	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161636	Thank you, President. Well, I hear it's gonna be quite a cold cup of coffee that DF invites to. This means that the DF obviously cannot expect the government to come up with an alternative anyway. Then I hope that DF will consider talking to us. But my question to the rapporteur is as follows: do not make an impression on the Left when, among other things, it does not make an impression on the Left. The Crafts Council, which represents 20,000-25,000 entrepreneurs, says that it is deeply worrying if the bill in question is adopted? Doesn't that make an impression on the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161722	After all, what remains after today's debate is that with this bill we are now dismantling a useless scheme that has been awkward to a great many independent traders and all sorts of other people, and which, overall, will cost the Danish taxpayers about 50 million. kr. Then I have read and taken note of the Council's position and view that they would have liked to have seen another scheme, but I also consider that Ase, to which I can refer, had comments on the previous proposal, i.e. in 2013. There they had comments on the scheme and they did not see a maternity compensation scheme as the main reason for entering and becoming self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161812	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161813	In other words, the Left does not really have a solution in that only a third of all entrepreneurs are women. In other words, the Left does not really have anything they want to put in place either, I can almost notice. But how on earth does the Left intend to solve that problem of equality for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161838	I think that becoming an entrepreneur or ending up a self-employed person, whether you are a woman or a man, is generally about the framework conditions we have in Denmark. I regret that the Socialists do not want to be involved in promoting a business-friendly society in which, as a result, it is very easy to be self-employed. This is what the government, together with the other bourgeois parties in the Folketing, has taken a number of steps towards, and we will continue to go that way. So, overall, we find that a maternity compensation scheme is not what helps to create the most independent and most entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161928	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112161931	Now I think that the rapporteur of the Left should turn the rhetoric down a little bit. There's no need for us to shoot each other all sorts of things in our shoes. Of course, the Socialists want to promote entrepreneurship. We have every interest in this, and it is also one of the intentions of the current legislation, in which the rapporteur draws attention to the problems associated with this legislation. However, if the rapporteur backs up a little and looks at what was actually the fundamental problem that this scheme should try to solve, then that problem will not be solved by the fact that the law is now being removed as long as the government is not involved in providing alternative solutions. One of the problems is to create better maternity conditions, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party quite rightly pointed out, for both men and women, while they are in entrepreneurs, so that they do not have to close down the business and stop entrepreneurship because they want to have children. So it's all about reconciling the opportunity to start a family with being an entrepreneur, and today there are not very good conditions. The rapporteur knows very well that there is not. So why can we not find any alternative solutions together?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162048	In my view, the system of self-employed maternity benefit, ordinary daily allowance, for a period of time, is an excellent and good one. When you ask Ase what the main barrier to becoming self-employed is, it is not a maternity compensation scheme that is being pointed out. These are a number of other things, i.e. the general framework conditions for self-employment, which must be promoted. We are sensitive to this. We want to promote entrepreneurship in general, but we do not want to go in and create a compulsory maternity compensation scheme, in which the contribution, if you follow the Socialists in this matter, should be increased from DKK 300. to about 1,500-1,600 kroner. in a compulsory scheme. So we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162144	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162147	My humble wish here today is that the Left will accept the outstretched hand that comes from the Social Democratic Party and that I also experience comes from the Danish People's Party, and use it to say: Well then let us sit together and try to find some other solutions that can promote entrepreneurship, including among women. We are interested in many becoming entrepreneurs, but we can see that very few women are becoming entrepreneurs. What can we do to get more women entrepreneurs? It is also very good for the economy and growth and all that. And how can we ensure that it becomes more compatible to set up a family while at the same time having your business running? Because there are problems today, the rapporteur cannot escape that. So there are people who have to shut down their business. It's hard to keep maternity leave and then come back again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162236	I would like to take part in discussing measures to promote more female and male entrepreneurs. I'd love to. I just do not think that a compulsory maternity compensation scheme is the answer. There are a large number of other things, and that is therefore generally better general framework conditions. We would very much like to discuss this with the Socialists, and I welcome the fact that the Socialists are on their way in this direction together with the bourgeois section of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162304	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162307	Thank you. It is the case that two out of three entrepreneurs are men. The Danish Business Administration's figures show that. Between 2001 and 2014, the number of women entrepreneurs has not increased very much; in fact, it has only increased from 31%. 34 per cent. There is no doubt that we want more women entrepreneurs to come. It is good for equality, it is good for growth, it is good for the economy, it is good for all of us. And that is why I am a little surprised when the rapporteur refers only to one particular organisation, Ase, in order to justify why we have to abolish it here and that there will be no other action. For the Council of Craftsmen has been out to say that such a scheme is necessary, and in fact the Danish Entrepreneurship Association has also been out to say that despite campaigns and initiatives there has been no move in relation to getting more women entrepreneurs. One of the arguments for the slow pace of this move is that women between the ages of 25 and 35 have a barrier which states that they must also have time to reproduce to society; that is, they must have children. Can the rapporteur not also take this into account when he talks only about framework conditions? Because it is also a question of there being a period in a woman's life when she is going to have children, and that means that she has to go on maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162429	Yes, and the rules are already the case today that you can also receive maternity benefit when you are a female entrepreneur. Those rules are there, and they are also being applied. So is the discussion: How can we get more both female and male entrepreneurs in Denmark? We in the Left believe that these are the general framework conditions that we have to work with there and not create a compulsory maternity compensation scheme, which, if we were to go along that path, would mean that this contribution, which is currently about DKK 300. Every year, it was supposed to be 1,500-1,600 kroner. annual. And we don't think this is the right time to send off now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162513	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162516	Just improving the framework conditions will not cause more women to drop having children. Well, there is a period in a woman's life where she chooses to have children and where she may also want to be independent at the same time. Then, through a maternity fund, you can have rights and opportunities. The rights and opportunities the Left would like to deprive these future independent women. There are various actors who have been on the field and highlighted the importance of this effort. The Council of Craftsmen has been what the Danish Entrepreneurship Association has been, and VIRKSOMME women have also been advocates of this, but yet there is only one argument to which the rapporteur refers, and that is from the trade union Ase, and then he says that we should just have improved framework conditions. Will we get more women entrepreneurs by simply improving the framework conditions without actually improving women's ability to take maternity leave with a clear conscience?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162612	I believe that promoting conditions in general to be self-employed can bring more female entrepreneurs and more male entrepreneurs into play. And I do not think that we should set up a certain compulsory maternity compensation scheme and then believe that that is the solution. I believe that being self-employed in this way is what our society must build on, that some people make that choice. And it's an opt-out of other things, but it's also an option for you to be master of your own house. We think it is good that some people want to be, and we want to create even better conditions. And, of course, we would like more women entrepreneurs to come into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162701	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley's position. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112162718	If you, as a politician, make a mistake, you have to be prepared to recognise that you have committed it. That is why, of course, I would like to start by saying that this was a mistake when, together with the previous government, we funded the maternity scheme for self-employed people, which was not linked financially. There is no point in forcing a lot of people to contribute to a system that they have no opportunity to use. It was, of course, also a stupid mistake because we were actually warned against it through consultation answers from both the LO and the Danish Employers' Association and also through some questions during the discussion of the bill. That is why we have recognised that this was a mistake, by supporting the government in that it had to be corrected and that those who had been wrongly drawn into contributions should have their money back. However, it is quite wrong if such a mistake is used as an excuse for not taking any action at all to promote equality among self-employed people, and it is, unfortunately, quite clear that it is the government's agenda. It was actually said quite frankly and frankly by the rapporteur of the Left that it really does not seem to be a priority task at all. That is also what this draft law says, because one simply abolishes a scheme, partly rightly, in relation to the fact that it was a wrong form of financing that we had found and is not trying to replace anything else. If we had really wanted to promote equality in this area, we would have invited all the parties of the Folketing to a real debate on finding a different solution. But all we have got is a meeting where we got some calculations that showed that it would not be coherent if the whole group of fee recipients were taken out of the scheme. Well, we also had a cup of coffee that we could barely drink before the government had given us a message that it was not going to do anything other than abolish this scheme. I think that is a pity, because in a number of consultation responses alternative models are actually proposed, but when you see the government's consultation notes, that is its answer, you can see that they are all just poured down the board. There is not the slightest courtesy or attempt to see if they could be used for anything. I think that there are some good suggestions in the Danish Journalists' Association's response, in particular the suggestion that one should try to examine a model in which this maternity scheme for self-employed people was run together with Barsel.dk, in other words, together with the compensation scheme for employees. Of course there will be a little different rules, but somehow you could run the two things together in financial terms. I am well aware that it was also rejected by the previous government, but having seen the arguments of the Danish Journalist Federation, I think that it should be examined in greater detail, and I think that the Minister has rejected that model too quickly and without any real arguments. There is, however, an argument that if you now run the two schemes together and run it under Barsel.dk, this will mean that employers who contribute to the compensation of employees will pay disproportionately much for a maternity allowance for self-employed workers. I think the Minister should have put forward some calculations on this when he then rejected the Danish Journalist Federation's proposal so that we could see if it was so bad. But that is something we must ask for in the committee's work. I would say that if the Minister had had a real will to investigate that matter, he would have proposed a postponement of the bill until there was a clarification of the benefit rights of the self-employed and invited to negotiations with a view to finding a viable solution. It should be strange if we could not find a solution in relation to the fact that it is a rather small group we are talking about. It is estimated at 1,700 people per year. After all, the cost of financing this maternity allowance is a deductible operating cost, so employers would not bear the full burden themselves. The tax payers would also contribute to this and, as I said, I think I am wrong, but it would be a very small extra cost which would be borne by the employers within Barsel.dk. But the Minister obviously does not want to, and now we are going to find out whether the Minister agrees with his party colleague, who has said from the Chair that equality among self-employed people is not at all something worthy of priority. Then we can be so smart about it. I would just like to say that the Enhedslisten, like the other opposition parties, I think the Socialists have in any case clearly announced that they would, of course, be happy to take up a real debate on this issue. However, as things stand now, we must unfortunately vote against the draft law, as we do not see that there is any will on the part of the government to resolve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163228	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163245	Thank you so much. We were opposed to the compulsory maternity compensation scheme for self-employed people before the elections and we are pleased that it will be abolished. It also turned out that it was right to be against it, because the scheme has not worked and has led to absurd cases where people, who cannot in any way be described as self-employed, have been charged a fee for the scheme. I would also like to say that there are probably no other countries where there are such good opportunities to go on maternity leave. In other words, there are public subsidies in Denmark for people who want to go on maternity leave. And, in principle, we do not think that any self-employed person should pay for the fact that others want to go on maternity leave. I also believe that public support is not something that self-employed people should be on. This is completely contrary to the whole entrepreneurial thinking. That is why we are also pleased that this system is now being abolished, and that is why we can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163359	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163404	I stumbled over the fact that the rapporteur, when talking about maternity for self-employed people, said that self-employed people should not be on transfer income. So what does the rapporteur mean by that? Does the rapporteur think that if you do not have a lot of money for which you can live while you are doing so, you cannot be self-employed and at the same time have a family and have a maternity leave with your child?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163431	Well, I think that being an entrepreneur is not a good thing, that there is also access to, for example. such a compulsory maternity compensation scheme as the one we are abolishing today. Some have suggested that you should be able to start business and so on. and be on cash benefits at the same time. I think that the system that we are now abolishing is a little in line with that thinking, and that is not a line of thought that I share. When you look at countries where there is a better entrepreneurial culture and where more people want to be entrepreneurs than is the case in Denmark, these are not countries where there are more opportunities to be on public support while you are an entrepreneur. These are countries where there are better framework conditions and where it is more attractive to start your own business, because the potential benefit of succeeding with a company is greater than it is in Denmark. That's the way it is. It is certainly one of the things that comes into play when you consider becoming an entrepreneur, namely that you weigh the risk against the potential gain. And in Denmark, unfortunately, we have arranged ourselves in such a way that the potential gain is relatively small compared to the risk you take when you start your own business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163558	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163559	Now it gets so little general, and that's fair enough. But I just want to say that basically I do not see a contradiction between being self-employed, engaging in it and fully supporting it and wanting to be there for your children. I mean, where's the contrast? Why should special conditions apply to entrepreneurs and self-employed people as opposed to all others? Why shouldn't they be as interested in being parents as all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163626	Well, they certainly are. I had my own business and had little children while I had it. That's not what I'm questioning. I am simply opposed to other people being forced to finance it. Nor would I wish for myself that other people would have other entrepreneurs, other self-employed people would have to finance that I would go home with my children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163651	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we proceed in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112163702	Thank you, President. I would like to start by saying that in the alternative, we recognise that the existing maternity compensation scheme for self-employed workers is not optimal, among other things. because the groups which are to contribute to the scheme are simply too broad. There have been examples of people who have received B-income for a consultancy task, which has also been charged money for the maternity compensation scheme. So we are completely in line with those who say that there are child diseases in the scheme. On the other hand, we deplore, in line with some of the other rapporteurs, the fact that the government is so quick to abolish the scheme that the government will not listen to many of the good proposals for improvements, which can be read in the consultation responses, for example. Among other things: In fact, the Danish Journalists' Association has proposed three different models that could be inspired by, yet the government has chosen to ignore the good proposals and stand firm on a roll-back of the maternity compensation scheme. That is a pity, because one of the reasons why we have the whole consultation apparatus is to be inspired by the good ideas that come from the organisations entitled to be consulted. So we would have liked to have listened to some of the answers to the hearings. Several of the consultation responses also correct the government's argument that there is no demand for a maternity compensation scheme for self-employed workers. In several of the consultation answers, a picture is given that it is actually out there in reality, among other things. The Danish Journalist Federation has conducted a study demonstrating that there is indeed a demand among their members. Last month there was a consultation on this, and in that consultation I took note of the fact that the Minister for Industry and Growth, who also took part in that consultation, said that it is not good enough that it is only 29 per cent. of the self-employed, who are women. That's how far the government and the alternative are agreed one hundred percent. We would have liked the government to have intervened to correct this trend, but it is doing a little the opposite in this draft law: it is undermining a tool that is actually very good at adjusting the difference that exists among the self-employed. We would have liked to have made a proposal for an improved system rather than abolishing the current system, and we still hope that the government will open up that door again or leave it in the dark. The Government also has the argument that one of the reasons why the old system is cumbersome is that there are many atypical jobs and therefore it is difficult to make a scheme that covers everyone. But in the field of unemployment benefits, you're looking at this thing with atypical employment, so why isn't the government inspired by this work in connection with this scheme? That is also one of the things we are wondering about. Then there is also the fact that we are talking a lot about female entrepreneurs and female genders, which must be treated equally with men, and there will be a maternity equalisation scheme for self-employed people, in addition to creating better conditions for female entrepreneurs, thus making it easier for some of the men to go on maternity leave. So this isn't just about women; it's also about giving better rights to those men. So we thus find it difficult to understand in the Alternative why the Left, as the Danish Liberal Party, wants to restrict what we see as the freedom to both decide to be independent entrepreneurs and at the same time have some proper conditions in the field of maternity. With these comments, we shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164031	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. For the Radical Left it is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164048	It is then the second bill that the government is putting forward, which is a retreat, as you might call it. I actually feel sorry for the government, and I do because it's so easy to give up. Of course it has been some complete, I was just saying foolishly now I said it then • errors or misunderstandings or ways of categorizing the target groups that we have talked about, i.e. those who should be target groups. I have also received a strange letter here in May from the employment system, which is quite correctly addressed to Marianne Jelved, Buddingevej 44 B etc., and which begins with a dear Marianne Jelved. They have been informed that I have been given new jobs in the last six months, and they would very much like me to report on how I have obtained the new job. I could have made some fun of that, but that's the kind of thing that happens, and then you have to correct the mistakes. You have to find the solutions that are to be found. What's funny about being in politics is that you don't just give up, but you actually get creative and try to find some answers. That is why this is not the last time we are discussing this issue in Parliament. I'm allowed to mention sir. Finn Sørensen here with a little recognition, because I actually agree with a great deal of what was said by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur here on the floor of this particular speech. So we could work on one way or another and try to see if we could find better solutions, because it is a huge problem that women are not respected as equals with men as entrepreneurs. They don't, because you can clearly see that. There's only 25%. of those who become entrepreneurs, who are women, and that is really unfortunate, because women are actually very, very good at making things work and developing. That is why we should do more in this context to bring them in. I should also like to mention here that this is actually the result of a really old agreement from the mid-00s, where the Conservative People's Party had a minister named Carina Christensen, who was a family minister. A broad political agreement was reached that something should be done to increase the opportunities for women to become entrepreneurs, and some of the barriers were often that they were simply so disadvantaged when they got pregnant. I know that because I have dealt with the subject in several different contexts, and that is a correct view. There is another issue that has also been revealed, and that is that there are very many reasons why fathers do not take maternity leave. We can look at self-employed workers, how little maternity leave is taken by men in that area. It's one in ten taking maternity leave. So it's too bad. We are talking about equality, and we are talking about equality, as if Denmark is a pioneering country in this area. I really think it lags in those places where it hurts just a tiny bit, understood in the way that we have to think creatively and find some new solutions. So we have to do that, because this is just too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164405	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's now SF, and it's Mr. SF. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164419	SF recognises that there are a number of practical problems in being able to run an attractive maternity fund for self-employed people. The creation of the existing fund was approached in a way which justified a great deal of dissatisfaction, among other things. with charges for people, some of whom were rather surprised or angry, since they were not really self-employed. A rather unlegant way of setting up a maternity fund for hatred. The SF does not consider that the answer is a short-circuit closing down the fund. A hole in a good boat, by the way, must be repaired. You don't sink the whole ship. In several of the consultations we can read that professional organisations and also employers' associations would like to participate in the constructive work of finding a sustainable solution. The challenge for us is to make it attractive for women to run their own business. I think we are all also talking about the importance of entrepreneurship and the need for women to have a better foothold as self-employed. Indeed, equality is a word that virtually every party is trying to look up for, and that is where we just have to recognise that better maternity conditions are one of the means. The solution is not to scrap a law which, admittedly, has a number of weaknesses. The goal must be to replace this law with another law that's better. The SF votes against the bill, but is willing to participate with the professional organisations in creating a new law to the benefit of women, the business community and indeed, in the longer term, the overall economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164623	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. Those are the rapporteurs of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164637	We were against the introduction of this system, and it should therefore not surprise anyone that we are also in favour of abolishing it again with the same arguments. I think that the two legislative proposals that have been dealt with in this Chamber today very well show that there is no real respect in imposing administrative burdens on companies. As a company, it is not a gift to be told by the Danish Parliament that it is now time to make pay reports and additional payments to a lot of different funds. I think that there has been a general tendency here in the Folketing to introduce new arrangements as an attempt to solve some problems. But as a company, you really find that you are just being burdened with some trouble. We have to be careful about that. We must be careful to push things down over people's heads; things that are claimed to be to their advantage, but which they do not want. There are all these small payment schemes for internships, for maternity, for a number of other purposes. I believe that most small traders are not even aware of what they are actually paying for through all the collections they receive. And I think the politicians in here still have some idea that they are doing companies a favour by introducing all these schemes. You don't. You just put the companies in a bit more trouble. To imagine solving the problem for entrepreneurs by having such an extra payment for going on maternity leave is also very far away from reality. That is not at all the problem with entrepreneurship among women. It is a very, very difficult situation to have to leave your business in the middle of it all, and it can very badly be done for most entrepreneurs just to suddenly leave their business for longer. That is the problem. It is not a question of having a maternity scheme or not having a maternity scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164830	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164835	Thank you. I was just a little surprised to hear from the Conservative rapporteur that the draft law that the rapporteur's colleague, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, has just supported is precisely about obtaining pay information, including from small businesses. That's not gonna change with that bill. So I do not know whether the Conservative rapporteur is in the process of pulling the plug on a previous legislative proposal, which the rapporteur's colleague has just supported. I think it's a little mysterious. But just to see if it is all a big misunderstanding: compared to the previous bill we have just discussed, nothing will be changed in terms of the company's obligation to report pay data to Danmarks Statistik. It is completely unchanged, there is no burden relief in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164926	I think this is a misunderstanding. As I have read that bill, it is about fewer companies reporting pay statistics than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164933	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164937	Then the Conservative rapporteur has completely misunderstood the bill. I have here verbatim from the country's Minister for Employment: I can inform you that the bill does not change the company's obligation to report salary information to Danmarks Statistik. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164954	I'll take another look at that. I'm not the rapporteur on that bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112164958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments. We have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165014	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs. The background to the proposal is of course familiar to everyone. The maternity compensation scheme adopted and established in 2013 proved unable to meet the real test. The target group was not defined in a durable manner, and this was due, among other things, to the fact that the target group was not defined in a sustainable manner. the request for freelancers to be included in the scheme. But this very wish resulted in far too many people being charged a contribution to a scheme to which they should not reasonably contribute. This meant that the Ministry of Employment, together with the ATP in autumn 2015, had to look at whether the scheme could be better targeted. At the same time, a unanimous Parliament agreed to stop the collections for the scheme from 2015 and instead allow the state to bear the cost of the contributions, and I would like to sign for that here today. In the view of the Government, it has not been possible to find an appropriate arrangement to replace the existing system. A targeting of the scheme would include: dramatically increase the individual's contribution from just over 300 DKK. to about 1,500 kroner. The reason why I am setting out the background today is that, regardless of whether it is politically felt that there should be a maternity compensation scheme for self-employed workers in Denmark, this cannot be the system that the government is now proposing to abolish. It does not work as intended, and it will not. I am not saying this to criticize those who are behind the system; I say it in recognition that it is simply extremely complicated to organise such a system of compensation for self-employed workers, which also the social partners and changing governments have had to go through now about. Ten years of trying. And in view of this, the government does not have current plans to establish an alternative arrangement. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this bill does not change the right of self-employed people to maternity benefits on the approx. 115 kr. It's an hour. What is changing is the obligation of the selfemployed to offset the cost of maternity for each other in the range between DKK 115. and approx. 167 kr. It's an hour. That is why it is the question of whether the anti-discrimination approach underlying maternity compensation schemes for employees is an anti-discrimination approach based on the fact that we do not want professions to target men in order to avoid maternity compensation costs. The whole consideration and the basic thinking of these structures do not really make any sense to self-employed people who decide for themselves what they want to deal with and whether they want to be self-employed. And that is why the question is whether it is not basically wrong to think that it is other self-employed people who have to finance what is the wage or earnings differential for self-employed people. We have made a lot of calculations in this government about it, but all the calculations we have made have shown, we can say that the closer one gets to a meaningful definition of the self-employed, the more expensive it becomes and the more one concentrates on a group of companies that do not want to be covered by the scheme. So we are not in a position to propose an alternative arrangement of this nature. In those words, I look forward to the further work of the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165411	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165416	Thank you. On the part of the Social Democrats, we see an unresolved problem that we would like to solve, a problem which both makes it harder to be a family for children and makes it harder to be self-employed. We want to do something about that. We're not stuck on how to solve this problem, but we're stuck on the fact that we want to solve the problem. So that is to say that the Minister of Social Democracy is today seeing a hand in helping to solve this problem, and I hope the Minister will accept that. I am also listening to the fact that many other parties have come forward with the same message, i.e. that there are problems with the current law, but that the problem is still unresolved. So my friendly call is simply for the Minister to call for negotiations on alternative solutions and for us to allow ourselves to think a little out of the box when we meet about what other measures could be taken to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165522	This government wants some growth. We want growth throughout Denmark and we really want to improve the framework conditions for entrepreneurs. But with the experience we have here, we are of the opinion that the right way is not to find ways for a relatively narrow group of companies to pay for other conditions for self-employed people, and that is what we are talking about here. That is why I am not sure that, in relation to the growth initiatives we might want to work with for entrepreneurs, we should point to the Minister for Employment. However, as a representative of the government, I have taken note of the willingness of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165607	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165610	I would be very happy to meet with the Minister for Employment, but of course I would also like to meet with the Minister for Business and Growth, and who else will have to deal with this area. I just think that the government should accept the outstretched hand and take it home with itself that we are ready to do something in this area that can solve these problems. Whether it will be in negotiations before the growth package, or it will be part of the negotiations on the growth package itself, is not really what matters to me. What matters to me is that we have a problem that we should solve. It's not with this bill that it's going to be solved, but it shouldn't stop us from solving it in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165649	What was in my reply was a comment on, we can say, not to put a tow in each other's eyes. We've been working on this for 10 years. Business organisations have been working on it for 10 years. I've been working on it myself for 10 years. I do not think it is possible to find a model based on the basic thinking of a maternity compensation scheme for employees. However, we would very much like to discuss with all interested parties the opportunities to improve the framework conditions for entrepreneurs, including for women entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165724	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165728	Thank you. Despite the fact that the Minister is polite and says that he has noted that there is an outstretched hand from the Socialists he can count all the rest of us also with regard to having a debate, then I think it sounds like a really depressing message. The conclusion is that, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, the government does not think it is important to promote equality in this area. That must be the conclusion we come to and then the conclusion that the Danish People's Party has over-interpreted some things. And that's too bad. I just feel the urge to confront the Minister with what this is really about. For now, like the fact that there are no problems with discrimination in this area, the Minister uses the same way that there can be with employees, and that is why it is not interesting. But that is not the main point at all. What this is about is promoting equality among self-employed people, just as we would like to promote it everywhere else in society. This is done by ensuring that the loss of pay for women and men on maternity leave is not as great as it is with the current maternity allowance. Does the Minister not agree with that, is that what it is all about in its simplicity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165845	Well, if there could be a viable solution to what was delimited in a way, so that it did not contain excessive speculative risks, or in such a way that not too many protested against being part of it because they considered it meaningless.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165901	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165904	The current Finance Minister stated back in 2005 when Barsel.dk was adopted that a solution should be found for self-employed people who were not covered by this scheme, i.e. Barsel.dk. What is the Minister's position on this? Is it something that has been scrapped so that the words of the current Minister of Finance do not weigh so much now, or what is it like?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165934	As mentioned, a solution following the methodology that we have now sought to work for, both in the organizational world and through changing governments, and in which I myself have been part of it for ten years, I simply do not believe in. If we want to improve the conditions of entrepreneurs, we must try to go a different way than the one we have gone here so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165952	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112165954	Which way could it be? Does the Minister consider it a problem that less than a third of self-employed workers are women?
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170011	I would very much like to see a much higher proportion of women among entrepreneurs and self-employed workers. However, we need to be aware that there are some particular dilemmas that cannot be resolved by forcing other self-employed people to pay for such compensatory schemes for entrepreneurs, among others. this, that absence from the company means a great deal and probably means for many more than the compensation itself between the 115 DKK. and then the 165 kroner. It is the logic of both maternity benefit and compensation that if you are active in the company, you cannot receive any of these amounts, and that is a real dilemma for entrepreneurs and self-employed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170052	Thank you. Well, then we owe Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen an extra round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170055	Thank you. I'm glad I didn't remember wrong. Now I have to rewind, but I saw that there was such a small concession in what the Minister said when I pointed out that the problem of equality as such is if there is too much gap between the earnings you are used to and the one you can get on maternity benefits. That is, of course, what is in it, because if you level that gap, there will be a little more women and, hopefully, more men taking this maternity leave, and that is good for equality. I would just like to say to the Minister: we have, of course, recognised that it cannot be made to happen if it is only within the small group that is actually the target group for this. Then you have to think out of the box, and that is what I think the Danish Journalist Federation has done by saying: could there be no arrangement by running it with Barsel.dk? So I would just like to say that if the Minister does not want to blur the calculations that have been made on this occasion, then the Minister must be confronted with it so that we can see whether it really is any problem at all to do so in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170211	When it comes to the previous calculations, they are based on calculations made by the previous government, to which I have relied. And we need to be aware, in relation to the Danish Journalist Federation, that there are different interests for the third group and freelancers and then the single self-employed. For the single self-employed whom we are left with here, the absence from the company means a great deal. It is not only a question of wage compensation that matters. And as my previous answer showed, it is a real dilemma that if you work during your maternity leave, you cannot receive maternity benefit or maternity compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170253	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I therefore propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170311	The debate is open and we are giving the floor to the first rapporteur, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170332	The world around us is constantly evolving, as are the digital aids. That is why, in this Parliament, we have a duty to ensure that the legislation goes with it. When the police tell that they experience that in custody in surrogate with mobile phones and other equipment that can be used to communicate with, then the problem has to be solved. Whatever reason there may be for being in custody in surrogate, it is deeply problematic that with your equipment you can influence the investigation, that you can contact sources, or that you can threaten victims. It needs to be tightened up so that it will also be punishable to bring phones, iPhones, tablets, etc. In surrogate prison. May I at the same time say that we in the Social Democratic Party would like to see greater control over these communication tools. Last week, it emerged that a in custody terrorist object has had access to a smartphone just during his custody. From here he is said to have uploaded photos to Facebook and Instagram, and you can only imagine what else he has used the phone for. It is deeply, deeply reprehensible and must under no circumstances occur. That is why the report from the Social Democratic Party is quite clear: let us adopt this proposal, but let us also make sure that the laws we adopt are complied with in practice. I therefore hope that the Minister will proceed consistently when it comes to stopping the smuggling of mobile phones in prisons, and we are happy to support it. With those words, I must say that we support the proposal here today and that we are also happy to take further discussions on how we can ensure that the legislation is complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170610	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. And then it's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170621	Today it is a criminal offence if, as a prison or arrested, you have an improper possession of a mobile phone or similar telecommunications equipment when you are in a prison or a closed prison. The same rules do not apply to persons in custody in surrogate. At the same time, when there are examples that people in possession of this equipment have made police investigations into criminal proceedings difficult, it is of course a cause for concern that we in the Danish People's Party are pleased that the government is now acting on the proposal here. When it comes to ensuring that the police are able to investigate matters that may be criminals in order to bring those responsible to account, we are of course interested in providing the police with the best possible tools for that very purpose. At the same time, it is worth noting that the proposal does not concern the question of when the possession of the equipment in question might be unlawful, but merely extends the ban to persons in custody in surrogate. This is interesting when the debate on control options is raised. I think it is worth a debate and can only support the proposals and initiatives that the Minister of Justice has put forward in the past to be able to jam if that is what could stem some of these problems in this area. However, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I can say that we intend to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170800	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Gundelach. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112170809	Today, as has also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, it is illegal to have a mobile phone in a detention house or in a closed prison. It is stated in section 124 of the Criminal Code, and there is good reason for doing so. Among other things: there are all the possibilities to influence witnesses and plan escape attempts and many other things that are not equally wanted. It is therefore logical that we should have this ban in the penal code, a ban that applies in closed prisons and in detention houses. I hope that in the negotiations on the criminal justice economy we can have room for more raids, because it is no secret that, in spite of the rules of the criminal code and the ban etc., yes, there is a blossom, among other things. After all, cell phones in prisons on a very large scale. But this is a debate that we will have to take up later. The proposal we are dealing with today is a proposal to extend this ban to those who are in surrogate prison, as it is called, that is to say, young people sitting in institutions, or mentally ill. Of course, we can support that. Exactly the same consideration applies to this group as to others. We must not tolerate mobile phones being used in such situations. Having said that, and the Left thus supports the proposal, I also find reason to commend the government because it makes it clear in Section 5 of the comments that there has been a practice for a number of years that many people have been convicted of mobile phone ownership in cases where it has not been illegal to have a mobile phone. So there are, as far as I am aware, a number of up to 50 people in the last 10 years who have been convicted without a proper legal basis, and the government also notes that. To put it mildly, it is a matter of legal certainty that such a thing can take place and I am therefore pleased that it will be corrected. The government has written in the comments that the Attorney General is now going in to investigate these cases. If so, this must lead to a resumption of proceedings and the persons concerned are likely to be acquitted and compensated. That's all we can do in a legal society. But it is worrying that this practice has been able to take place. I am glad that it is now being corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171056	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171106	This proposal, as I understand it, would criminalise young people or, for example, young people. people in psychiatry with mental illness, who sit in what is called a custody watch, improperly possess electronic communication, as it is called, that is to say, with a mobile phone. So it is a group of people who are not ordinary in custody but are under 18 years of age or suffering from mental illness, i.e. some groups who are relatively weak. As I have understood the existing rules, it is also not a question of whether they should be allowed to own a mobile phone or not. There are already opportunities for a ban on communicating; that is to say, they must not talk to anyone without being monitored, among other things. Because, of course, if you are in custody, you should not be able to reconcile explanations with others outside, or warn other fellow criminals, etc. What is the question then is whether to criminalise it, that is. impose some form of punishment on them when they violate the ban, perhaps even a prison sentence. And that is in some way obvious; in other words, because ordinary people in prison are being sanctioned in this way, it should be the same, as several rapporteurs have pointed out. Probably, however, it will not really have any effect. In other words, when you read the hearing answers, you can see that both the Danish Psychiatric Society and the Children's Council doubt that it will actually have any significance because there is already a ban and that it will be possible to impose an extra penalty, thus having no real preventive effect. So if you want to punish, yes, you can say that it is fine, that is, if it is for the sake of punishment, but if you want to prevent young people in custody from having a mobile phone, you may have to do some other things. And some of them might benefit by being able to talk a little more with their family than they can today just as an example. But having said that, it is not a proposal which, for us, is doing a great deal of damage. This is probably something that we can vote for when we have received answers to a few clarification questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171337	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171348	It is a finely small proposal that the government has put forward here which makes it a criminal offence for persons in custody to have a mobile phone or similar communication equipment at a secure 24-hour institution or the like. I guess you could say it's hard to be against. If you try to think about it a little, i.e. whether it should be the case that people who are in a situation of custody should be able to have communication opportunities with others outside or not, I think everyone will agree that they should not. If you do not think it should be allowed, then it should surely be punishable so that there may be a sanction, if that happens. In fact, it should be the case that you only have things that you criminalise if you are also prepared to punish. We could discuss other things where we think we should decriminalize because we are de facto not willing to give a penalty or are willing to follow up. But here it makes sense. I find it difficult to see what the arguments are against, and that is why we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171501	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171509	Thank you. The bill we are now considering aims to criminalise the improper possession of mobile phones and other means of communication for detainees in custody. This applies, as we have also heard several rapporteurs clarify, i.e. young people under the age of 18, such as: are placed in a secure youth institution and persons who need to be placed in a psychiatric ward while in custody and the investigation is ongoing. In the alternative, of course, we agree that it is very problematic that there are cases where a person in custody in surrogate can use his mobile phone and the like to counter police investigations. This is an issue that we recognise, and it is something that we will work to prevent. Then, of course, we also think, like what the rapporteur of the Left has said, that it is problematic that it has apparently already been the case for a number of years that people have been convicted of violating it here without a legal basis. So in this way we are glad to see that it is corrected. Having said that, I have to admit that I am actually uncertain about the exact extent of this bill. Is it merely an opportunity to sanction those who then abuse the mobile phone with a penalty? The police are already able to tell people there that they are not allowed to use their mobile phones. Or are some of these young people in custody in surrogate who today find that hard to read out of the bill. So we have put a number of questions to the Minister for Justice to clarify exactly what the scope of this bill is, but we are, of course, prepared to resolve the issue outlined. In those words, I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171657	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the Radical Left rapporteur, Emrah Tuncer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171705	Of course, none of us disagree that the police should have the best conditions for solving crimes, and that is why we must, of course, give them the best conditions so that the perpetrators who are in custody in surrogate will not be able to influence a possible investigation by means of a mobile phone or other communication equipment. So, although it is not clear how big the challenge really is, we are on the basis of optimising the conditions for an investigation. Nevertheless, in Radicals, we believe that the bill raises some fundamental issues in relation to the enforcement of the law, the prosecution and the protection of young people who are not in custody when they come to live with young people in custody in surrogate. Questions that pop up could be: How will one in the individual department where young people live create an understanding that some people may be in possession of mobile phones and other communication equipment, while others under the same roof are not allowed? If the young person in custody in surrogate lends or forces himself access to a mobile phone or other communication equipment by a young person who is not in custody in surrogate, how do you determine whether there is involvement in a crime or whether there is coercion? In addition, we see an educational challenge and a challenge in relation to the important relationship between staff and young people, because the teaching staff must act as a watchdog and have the role of reporting when they find that the young person has made use of mobile phones or other communication equipment. So, as a starting point, we are not against the bill, but we are going to ask the Minister some more detailed questions, and it is clear that when there are some sensible answers to them, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171854	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. So is it the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen? No, okay, then we go ahead in the rapporteur's line, and that's the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171913	We in the Conservative People's Party also think that this is an excellent little proposal which, as we see it, closes a gap in the law. Of course, it makes no sense that, if you are in custody in surrogate, you can influence the investigation that exists by having access to a mobile phone. We think it is quite natural that it is punishable in that situation and we are prepared to support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171949	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we will be through the rapporteur's line and then we will give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112171957	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The aim is to criminalise the improper possession of mobile phones or similar communication equipment in custody in surrogate. The possession of a mobile phone or similar communication equipment is now punishable by arrest or imprisonment in a detention house or in a closed prison. The same does not apply to persons in custody in surrogate, for example. In this way, the draft law will close an inappropriate gap in the acquis in force. In relation to the question from the alternative, it is the case that, for those in surrogate who are subject to secret correspondence, it has not so far been punishable if they were in possession of a mobile phone. So from now on it will be punishable for up to 7 days, if you find such a cell phone. That's the way it is. Against this background, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for the various contributions they have made. I look forward to further discussion in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172117	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172122	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I mean, what I'm still not sure about is whether we're expanding the circle. Because today it is a concrete assessment, so the police can say that you are in surrogate and that they need you not to use your mobile phone. This bill does so that it imposes a penalty, which has not been done so far. What I am really in doubt about is whether the draft law does so by saying in the future that it is now in force per year. automatic when you're in surrogate custody.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172155	No, that's what I was trying to say in relation to letter secrecy etc. After all, it is they who are subject by the police that they must not communicate with the outside world, and it is not an automatic that naturally follows. So it's a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172207	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172211	Yeah, that's exactly it. So what the Minister is saying is that it is still a concrete assessment by the police, and what we are doing with this bill is that we impose a sanction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172220	Yeah, we'll clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172223	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160112172234	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 January 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
