ParlaMint-DK_20160205100004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Liselot Blixt (DF) and others.: Bill No. L 115 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorization of Healthcare Workers and Healthcare Workers). Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Anders Samuelsen (LA): Request no. F 18 (What can the Minister say about the consequences of the amendments to the Law on Publicity in the Administration adopted by Bill No. L 144 in the parliamentary year 2012-13, including what forward-looking considerations do experience give rise to?). Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Ulla Sandbæk (ALT): Hasteforskning nr. F 19 (Will the Minister explain the current legislation and practice in cases of withdrawal of residence permits for students who have worked too much, including whether the Minister will make changes in this area in the light of recent cases where students have been shown not to be staying in the country for the purpose of studying, despite the passing of all courses and examinations in the study?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160205100044	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 9 February 2016. It is first Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, as rapporteur for the authors of a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205100113	Thank you. Today the Danish People's Party has chosen to call this inquiry debate, as we think we need to debate the care area. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, we have asked the Minister to explain the current remuneration system for care and network families, focusing on the fact that several foster families have experienced a direct or indirect threat to the termination of the lease or to have their foster child moved if they claimed help or support for it, including explaining whether the Minister will make changes in this area. A number of my intergroup colleagues from Jutland had a meeting in the election campaign with a number of foster families who needed to tell us how and what challenges they saw in this area. There is no doubt that there are very many foster families who dedicate their lives and their hearts to helping vulnerable children and young people. They open their homes and they open their families. Unfortunately, we have also seen the opposite. I think that we have all seen the documentary about the care girls who were abused and seriously violated. It is unforgivable that these failures and abuses can take place in Denmark. We also remember the Mern case, where two foster parents were convicted of violence and abuse of nine foster children for a period of 20 years. We all have a great responsibility, a responsibility to safeguard our children and vulnerable young people. That is why today we in the Danish People's Party are looking forward to a very good and wide debate in the area, where we are debating challenges and solutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205100302	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205100312	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. I fully agree that today's debate is a very, very important one. And let me start by stating that foster families in Denmark solve a large and valuable task. The great strength of foster families is that children and young people who cannot live with their parents can grow up in a foster family with an everyday life that is much more similar to that of their peers, where they will just experience that they are part of a family. We know how much it means for children that they grow up with stable relationships with adults who want them and where they also feel they belong. There are three types of foster families: the network care family, what we call the ordinary foster families, and then the municipal foster families. A network care family is a family which, by virtue of its personal relationship with a child, it could e.g. be aunt and uncle or grandparents • are approved to have the child or young person in care. Network care families are not paid, but instead have the right to recover the costs of having the child. This is true, for example. board and lodging, clothes and furniture for the room. Then there are the other two types, the ones we call the regular foster families and then the municipal foster families. Both foster families are paid or paid for having a foster child. Salaries and other questions about the more contractual terms of the foster families are not regulated by the Services Act, but it is therefore a matter of agreement between the foster family and the municipality. It is therefore up to the individual municipality and the foster family, if we want to enter into agreements, for example. fixed wages with notice or remuneration in the form of remuneration or perhaps something quite different. What makes the best sense for the individual foster family and for the municipalities to agree can depend on several things, for example. whether it is a child who alone needs to be able to live with the foster family for a period of time and, moreover, is otherwise quite well-functioning or whether it is a child with very great needs and that it is required that one or even both foster parents have no employment other than caring for the child in question. It may also be the case that the foster family does not take care of the foster family business on a full-time basis, but in other words, the child alone is relieved, e.g. A couple of weekends a month. That is why it is good and important, I believe, that there are wide possibilities for the foster families and municipalities to make the agreements that are best suited to the given situation. Yes, we have seen terrible stories, most recently with the documentary here the other night, which showed a terrible picture of failure and lack of supervision of a stay in a foster family. When you look at these terrible individual cases, you may also get a wrong picture of what the broad reality really looks like. I would like to try to unfold that. Back in 2014, the Ankestyrelsen made a major study of the cooperation between municipalities and foster families. It was a study which showed, I would say, a slightly different picture of the relationship between foster families and municipalities than the impression you get immediately when you see the wording of the question debate today. Basically, in this study, the vast majority of foster families are satisfied with the cooperation they have with the municipality, and the satisfaction is also great when the municipalities have to assess the cooperation they have with the foster families. Of course, there are also cases where cooperation is difficult. It may not be avoided. But this study demonstrates that it is, in fact, far from and fortunately, but far from being the norm. I must therefore say that I do not agree with the basic premise on the question that it is generally difficult for municipalities and foster families to make cooperation work. On top of that, I would also like to stress that it is obvious that the municipalities only benefit from working with the foster families and that the alternative, i.e. if they do not work well with the foster families, is that the children who need to be placed outside the home must then be forced to be in both more expensive and perhaps less family-friendly settings instead of being in a location. What municipalities and foster families have to do to avoid conflict is, of course, to conclude clear agreements on the framework and conditions of cooperation. It must never be the case that the child can get caught up in a dispute between the foster family and the municipality about e.g. pay. The most important thing is the child's well-being, and that there is tranquillity and stability around the housed child. That is why we need to do something, for example. Clear agreements are made on the level of remuneration, when and how such remuneration may be renegotiated, what support and supervision the foster family needs, and of course also agreements on cooperation with the biological parents. We have done a great deal together in the pool of rates to strengthen the foster family area in recent years. Back in 2014, we launched a greater review of the foster family area, where among others. The Ankestyrelsen's study of cooperation between municipalities and foster families has made us wiser on how the area works. This review also led to the fact that the stake pool parties with the 2015 stake pool agreement set aside just under 81 million. kr. more than four years for a major foster family initiative, including: to ensure more stable placement patterns and a better framework for the work of foster families. As part of the initiative, there were among others: a change of law where the requirements for when to move a child from one location to another were tightened so that children alone can be moved when it happens for the sake of what is best for the child. With the change of law, network care families were also given the right to more professional support, so that they get the necessary help and support to create a positive development for the child and also support to find out how to deal with, for example, conflicts with the child's biological family. These changes have just entered into force on 1 October 2015, so it's just about three months since it's come into force. Then funds were also set aside for a number of other initiatives to support better care provision. One of the initiatives is guidance to municipalities on good practice for the remuneration of foster families. This guide is intended to provide examples of good remuneration models and inspiration for how, for example, the negotiation of remuneration and the determination of other terms can be handled. The guide will be published during the autumn. Then funds were set aside to investigate alternative models to cover the costs incurred by network care families in having a child, and that study is being initiated here now. Another initiative is then a manual on placements in foster care, and it should be a manual that focuses on the good course. The handbook shall provide guidance on the conditions that typically present challenges, e.g.: cooperation between the foster family and the child's biological parents. As part of the agreement, a community care network was also set up. This gives the municipalities even better opportunities to cooperate and exchange good experiences, for example with the organisation of continuing training and supervision for the foster families. Finally, an initiative was launched to help spread networking methods to municipalities, for example. family rotting. Then, of course, as we have the habit of doing in connection with the pool agreement, an overall evaluation of the initiatives is planned, but first, of course, they must be given the opportunity to work. It is then an evaluation that is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. So, in conclusion, I would like to repeat that we have no reason to believe that cooperation between municipalities and foster families is generally bad. In fact, overall, there is great satisfaction on both sides of the table, and in cases where there have been challenges, we have taken several steps together to strengthen the care family area, most recently with the rate pool agreement. I will, of course, follow these initiatives closely, and I also have the expectation that we will do so in the pool of rates, because we have a common interest in creating security and stability for the children and young people who are placed in foster families in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205101253	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205101301	Thank you. Let me first say that we in the Danish People's Party are extremely pleased with the initiatives we have taken together. This is where we really like network care families, which we have worked hard to do even better and to promote. Let me start by saying that in the Danish People's Party we take seriously the inquiries we receive, and I am familiar with the study, but I am also aware that on 31 January 2015 there was an article in which the National Association of Nursing Families was out to advise families not to bring children in. The article stated that the conditions for foster parents in today's Denmark are so bad that the National Association cannot recommend anyone to become a foster family. It stated: "The reason for the spectacular call is that foster parents are not regarded as equal partners when case officers and experts formulate and review the action plans underlying the placement of children. As a foster family, you can make the crucial difference for a child who has come to a bad start. We're with the child in custody 24/7, and we're gonna have a very close relationship with it. The problem is that we are not taken seriously in the cooperation around the child," says Marianne List, Vice-President of the Nursing Family Association, to Jyllands-Posten and continues: "We cannot recommend anyone to become a foster family at the moment. Both because the cooperation is not equal and because the insecurity in the job is excessive, she says. Director of Social Relations and Employment in Aarhus Municipality Erik Kaastrup-Hansen tells Jyllands-Posten that he sees criticism primarily as a trade union struggle to provide better conditions for members, but that it must of course be taken seriously. In the municipality association KL, which negotiates terms and tariffs to foster families, head Tina Wahl emphasizes to the newspaper that there are no plans to make an agreement for foster parents. ▪ When I have talked to foster families, several have mentioned a number of challenges. For example: they may feel threatened to go down in pay if they do not partner right, including the municipality will then find another foster family for the child. There have also been examples that I have received that if they do not agree to the adoption of the foster child, you will find another place for the foster child. There have been challenges, many seem, with lack of support and help, and then there is the grey area on the question of whether you are an employee or a self-employed person. Then there is the whole question, as the Minister also mentioned, of network families and of why they are not paid, and if I understood the Minister correctly, a study will be undertaken in this area. And then there's the whole area about the payment of holiday money etc. In the Danish People's Party we think it is important to ensure a good environment for children placed in care, even when there is a conflict between a municipality and a foster family, because then it will ultimately hit the children, and that is of course not appropriate. Children's Conditions have also described that they experience that the conditions of employment of foster families, or rather the lack of family employment protection, contribute to the failure of children. Children's Terms have through among others. FagPhone contact with foster parents who experience challenges in their cooperation with the municipality. They have experienced that there are foster families who do not dare to approach the municipality with requests for supervision of a specific educational approach, and they are afraid of the consequences it may have for the placement. They have also experienced that the municipalities can write down the fees without consideration for the needs of children or for whether they have changed, and also the fact that you can move around with the children if the foster family does not agree to it. In the Danish People's Party we are well aware and have not mentioned that this is generally the case. But when there are challenges and we get inquiries, we also think we should take them seriously. That is why there have also been a number of studies under the former minister who has launched these studies because there were challenges in this area, and we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is important to follow up on. Today we have just received the SFI's evaluation of the first part of the child's reform on continuity in placements. And it clearly states that: "There is a need for better professional management in the municipalities to ensure a better knowledge and decision-making basis for possible application of the law. The results of the examination of the new legislative rules in the municipalities suggest that the social workers have not applied the law as much as they could; primarily because they are uncertain about how the rules should be interpreted and what documentation requirements they require. Against this background, we highlight three points of interest which are important for the future implementation of the law: 1. Concrete case examples from the Ankestyrelsen 4. Professional support in the application of the legal rules and cooperation with parents 5. Framework for the handling of cases. These three points can all respond to the uncertainty of social workers regarding the application of the rules of the law on continuity in placements. It was a quote from the sub-report that has come today. We've got it late, and everyone hasn't gotten to read it yet. But I would certainly urge you to look at it. Now the President has risen. Thank you for the floor and I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205101857	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205101905	We're completely under the floorboards. It has had huge consequences for my family and for our own children, and if I had known how much we had to fight with the municipality, I'm sure we hadn't done it. It was actually flat out it, a woman whose family had taken a child as a network care family, said to me, after for years having had a fight running with the municipality about the conditions that were around the family. She had asked me for a meeting because she could hear that it was the same for a lot of other network care families. When you are a network care family, you are typically either the sister or friend or what looks like to the mother who can no longer take care of the child. This means that you are part of the network or family around the child to be placed. What is real for the children is that their network care families spend an incredible amount of time in front of the computer, because they have to fight with the municipality about supporting documents, that is, what the municipality should cover and what the municipality should not cover. I think that is completely unreasonable. People who take on the huge task of taking a child into account simply need to have some conditions where bureaucracy is minimized and proper conditions are created for them. Everything else simply cannot be right. And that is, of course, the reason why we have put some money on the 2015 rate pool and I look forward very much to the models that should make it more clear what kind of framework you are dealing with coming in. I am very much opposed to the fact that the foster families annex to annexes have to enter and negotiate with a municipality, and this is really the same thing that happens in terms of pay and working conditions for foster families. There is a different type of rule, but it is the same problem, namely that the person you negotiate with can take from you some of the most precious, namely the child you love for that is fortunately it has come to love from you. As far as the negotiation of pay and working conditions is concerned, it is not, of course, like the ordinary labour market, where, in the extreme, you can either lock out or strike. That is what lies in our whole model, so if the negotiations break down and you cannot come up with a solution, then it is the tools you can use against each other. But I guess no one imagines that you should strike from your child. At times you may want to do so when they don't want to wear shoes in the morning or something, but to lead it into a consequence that is more than five minutes' anger that they don't want to tie the laces, doesn't go, and that means that the foster families do not have an opportunity, if the negotiations break down, to say: we need to have better conditions. That is why I believe that we have a special responsibility, both on the part of the legislator and, in particular, on the part of the municipalities, to create orderly and proper pay and working conditions for these groups. In other words, one has to take into account that there are groups here that do not have the same opportunities when negotiating wages as all other groups have. I simply do not think that has been taken seriously enough. I do not think it has been taken seriously enough by the legislator; I do not think it is taken seriously by the municipalities; and I think that you put the foster families in the totally unfair situation, that when they ask to have relationships that are very similar to those of all other people, and that roughly compensate for the huge work they take on, you can quickly get to where they say: is it because you do not care about the children you care about? That's the counter-reaction. That is simply not fair. I don't have the big chrome-plated solution to that. I have contributed to the fact that we have taken the step of having some money set aside to try to solve this, but we simply have to take seriously that is at the heart of the problem. And once we've talked about it, we'll have to split it up as well: there are municipal foster families and I think the minister made that very clear and they're meant to be a much more professionalized type of foster families than what you call the regular foster families. These are two different categories. And then there will be the network and family care families, who have only joined in 2007 - it is a completely third category. I believe that, once we have some of the investigation work in place, it is incumbent on us, as the Parliament, to take seriously the division of it, including legislative ones, in relation to how we deal with pay and working conditions, that we have established very clear guidelines in terms of taking seriously the fact that this is not a normal wage negotiation, as is the case between other social partners. There are so many grey areas, and we have been incredibly bad at dealing with it. And I would say that for us Socialists, one of the most important things is that we are put on the ground for all children to have a fair chance in life, that they get a proper start, that they have the opportunity to live out the dreams they have for their lives, regardless of the fact that they come from a family background that has burst together, and therefore they have had to be put in place. That means that for us, this is also nuclear. We do not want to be involved in any abuse; we do not want to be involved in the collapse of places; we do not want to be involved in the incoherence of the conditions surrounding the foster families that exist and the existence of grey areas. That's not gonna work. You should never be able to threaten to take the children from a family because you cannot agree on the conditions. There are a lot of problems to address, and there are no easy solutions, but we need to set a course for us to have some serious conversations with each other about these very vulnerable children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205102434	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205102450	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate, which is about the relationship between the foster families and the municipalities. This is a relationship in which we all have an interest in working for all parties, but above all for those children who, unfortunately, cannot be with their real families. Then we offer them something that we think may be almost as good, and in the case of families that are not working, it should be much better. Because the child's well-being is crucial, and in everyday life the foster families make a huge effort, and they help to ensure that children and young people can have such a kind of backup father and mother, when their real father and mother are unfortunately unable to take care of the parent role. Nursing families are fellow citizens who give their own human profits to others, and for that they must be thankful and helped. But thanks are only a poor word, as they say, and of course there must also be a remuneration, and that is what we are discussing here today, in other words what the conditions are for it. So we share in the Left, of course, the interest of the questioners in good and constructive cooperation between the municipalities and the foster families. Fortunately, if we are to look at the general picture, that makes sense. A study was carried out by the Ankestyrelsen back in 2014 on the very subject we are talking about here today, and this study shows that the vast majority of foster families are satisfied with the cooperation with the municipalities, and this also applies to the other way, i.e. that the municipalities are satisfied with the cooperation with the foster families. So it is the general picture that cooperation between municipalities and foster families works well. Does this mean that there are no thistles in the garden at all? No. There are challenges with regard to the remuneration of the foster families, and there are certainly also examples such as those mentioned by the rapporteur for the questioners in the reasons why we are here in a question debate, and this is also dealt with in the Ankestyrelsen's study. It is not so much in relation to what we should say about the total amount, but perhaps more structures and some discussions and negotiations that can sometimes go into a stalemate because there is a lack of clarity. And then, unfortunately, there are examples that care does not work as it should. I assume that we have almost all seen the horrible TV 2 documentary put in hell shown here the other day, which showed that it is not a lack of money that makes things go wrong. In that case it was the lack of such basic human qualities, the ability to feel neighbourly love, which was the problem with the completely diabolical, crazy family from Skælskør, which thus got more than 1.6 million. kr. Just in one year to have four foster children. The challenges we see go first to the way in which remuneration is paid and, as the Minister also mentioned, the remuneration of ordinary and municipal care families is not regulated by law, nor is there any agreement in this area. It is a matter of agreements between the foster family and the municipality. And the form of remuneration used today by a great many municipalities, because it is recommended by KL, has some built-in inappropriateness. Because, on the one hand, it is fair that you get more pay if you have a foster child who requires something special, but, on the other hand, it also means that we get an unfortunate incentive structure, where the foster family gets less pay when it goes well for the child, and more when things go badly. So, the better you do the job, you can say, the better the child gets it, the less you get paid. You get punished, if I may say so, for success. So it is a real dilemma, a real dilemma we are faced with, and some of the work we have started is looking at how to solve it and whether there are more appropriate models. This could be the model that you work with in Aarhus, where you go in more and look at some average considerations. This is one of the initiatives that is being launched as a result of the pool discussions we have had, where we have put no less than 81 million. kr. I'm gonna go check out this area. I will conclude by reading out a proposal for adoption, and it is all the parties of the Folketing that are behind it, so there is certainly no likelihood that it might end up being adopted. It sounds like this: Proposals for adoption • Care families including network care families must ensure continuity and stable adult contact for children and young people who cannot live with their parents. Therefore, it is important that any disagreements between the foster family and the municipality about the framework of the cooperation do not lead to a child getting caught. The Folketing urges the government to work to create security and stability in the care family area, including following closely the mapping of remuneration models that are being prepared. At the same time, the government is encouraged to ensure that the implementation guide to good practice on remuneration and contracts is disseminated to the municipalities when it is completed, so that there are fewer disagreements between the foster family and the municipality, which may damage the continuity of placement. • V 21).
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103022	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I shall include the proposal for adoption in the further negotiations. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103034	As several rapporteurs have said from up here, there are still foster families who are refused the support they think they need, and there are stories of foster families who are either directly or indirectly threatened with their being fired or the child being moved to another place if they require extra or other support. And that's unfair. Although things are going well in many places, and you have to remember to say that, it's not okay that we hear about those experiences. I think that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil actually unveiled an extremely important point and she did it much better than I could do it and that is the point that foster families do some caring work for our welfare society and that the piece of caring work is quite, very special because they do not have the same conditions as other groups in our society to demand their rights on the labour market; very many of them will like to highlight the joy of doing the caring work that it is to have a foster child with them. For the vast majority of foster families, there is both love and a sense of family that is completely genuine, even if it is not biological; you make a big difference as a foster family, you feel that the work is really important. At the same time, foster families also live with the negative aspects of this care work, i.e. poor working conditions, low wages and high levels of stress. They never have the opportunity to go home, they never have the opportunity to close the door, they have opened their homes to a child, and that is a particularly heavy burden. If, at last, they were to demand their right and then experience indirect threats to find another place for the child, that is to use the good heart of people instead of giving them the recognition and rights they deserve. I think that, in general terms, we find that foster families are being used as a saving exercise. Since the child's reform, more and more children have been sent to family care instead of to the institution, and I think this is a good idea as a starting point, but at the same time the municipalities are being pressed on the wallet; we know that the re-priority contribution that the government is agreeing with the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party intend to support will mean billions of dollars in cuts in the municipalities in addition to what we have already experienced. After all, the two things together mean that more and more of the more strained children will be cared for by the foster families. And it means everything else equal that there will be more of the stressful work and that foster families will need more support, more education and more supervision. So it goes without saying that when foster families get as little education as they get today, the equation simply does not go up. It is therefore the very clear starting point of the Enhedslisten that the foster families must have very, very transparent and, in such a way, indispensable rights, and therefore it is also good that there is a clarification work going on in relation to remuneration. At the same time, we think that the second part of the equation is missing, because the municipalities have yet to be guaranteed the financial resources that actually need to be provided, on the one hand, in order for the municipalities to ensure proper conditions for the foster families and, on the other hand, in order for them to be able to carry the cycle around the foster families, i.e. the case workers, for example. will have a ceiling on the number of cases they have, so that there is actually time and resources for the individual; that you get some social services that have a proper focus on holistic interventions; that there is also access to external supervision and foster family consultants with proper time for that and continuity of the courses, as others have also pointed out. And we can afford the welfare. It's about priorities. So, to conclude, we have reached a place where the conditions of the foster families are too much about the economy behind it, and far too little about what should be at the centre, namely the children and their best interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103523	Thank you. There's one questioner for the moment, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103528	There are hardly many who would like to be fostered after hearing Mrs Pernille Skippers's svada. To bring some facts into the debate, I can inform you that if you have two foster children, for example, you receive a salary of typically between DKK 32.528. and 56,924 kr. a month. In addition, a tax-free sum of approx. 5,500 kroner. for board and lodging and an amount of between 428 and 644 DKK. a month for clothing and an allowance of between 116 DKK. for the youngest and DKK 1,008. to the elderly, i.e. a total of between DKK 38,000 and DKK 64,000. a month. Does Mrs. Pernille Skipper think that this is a bad remuneration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103621	First of all, I would like to oppose the fact that the amounts allocated to, for example, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). The children's clothing or the children's allowance will be included in what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen outlines as a salary. I think it must be a mistake from Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen's side. He started his svada by talking about facts, and then he includes sums specifically intended for the children as remuneration for the foster families. Furthermore, I am not saying that it is a salary that means that you have to go for lye and cold water, but it is certainly not a fantastic salary either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103708	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103709	That's amazing. Speaking of salaries to parliamentary politicians, you think 50,000 is a fantastic salary, but when you talk about foster families, you think that $57,000. isn't an amazing hire. I must say that I find it very difficult to understand the Enhedslisten. And then I'd like to know how many more percent of Enhedslisten thinks we need to pay for foster families, since I can now understand that 57,000 kroner, and that's the pure consideration that it's the pure consideration that apparently isn't enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103743	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103744	Sir. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen can give some thought to what I think about the importance of foster families and the quality of members of parliament when I have the views on the remunerations that I have. But I have not stood by and said that we must raise the salary extremely. On the contrary, I have been saying and pointing out time and time again that we need clear guidelines, we need proper supervision, we need proper training around foster families. And then I just have to say that they are lifting a piece of welfare work for all of us. It's very central what they do, and they don't just do it 37 hours a week, they do it 24 hours a day with everything they have, their entire home and their family. It's extremely stressful. Fortunately, fortunately, many people are doing really, really well and get a great deal out of it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103835	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103839	Thank you. I'd like to hear Enhedslisten about one thing. Now that we are discussing remuneration, I am aware of the fact that some municipalities are running on a flat-rate basis. Does Enhedslisten think it was a way to go? I think that, among other things. is in Copenhagen and Aarhus. Is this a way to go, so as to avoid the debate and to make the child squeeze between negotiations in the municipality and the foster family?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103903	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103905	I fully agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl. A path to walk can be fixed remuneration, it may also be that one gets a proper agreement. However, there should be no negotiation between the individual foster family and the municipality, because then we risk that children will be used in the conflict that may arise. So the less we add to the individual family individually, the better so that we can relieve and remedy the conflicts that Dansk Folkeparti has also pointed out there unfortunately exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103937	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103940	The fact that you have these fixed salaries also affects the fact that many are reduced in remuneration because you simply have a flat rate. What will Enhedslisten's attitude be if the foster families are reduced in remuneration, as has happened in several places?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103957	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205103959	I think that is a bad idea, but it depends on where the flat-rate payment is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104005	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104010	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skippe for a good speech with many good points. Now there is a little debate about the level of pay, and I would really just like to hear whether the rapporteur can't confirm that when you read these figures for how much the remuneration is, you have to remember to draw 121⁄2%. If they are to receive them, they must return their foster children to a day-care institution or elsewhere, because you cannot take a vacation when you have your children with you. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm whether it is true that one should remember to draw 121⁄2%. from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104042	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104044	I would think that was a fair way of calculating it, and I think it is a very good point that very foster families have a problem in being allowed to take a proper holiday with the foster children as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104057	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104103	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate about the conditions for network and care families in Denmark. We can all hear that here we all agree that these families, who go in and take responsibility for some of society's most vulnerable children and young people, are doing a great deal of work that we all appreciate. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance also believe that it is perhaps time to start talking about the more general conditions, the framework conditions, for the care area in Denmark. In concrete terms, it is proposed that we should discuss the remuneration system and the municipal government's activities in relation to negotiations, but we do, in fact, think it is obvious to discuss the more general conditions. Of course, this applies both to remuneration and to cooperation with the municipalities, but also to the entire employment relationship, including pension conditions, notice of termination, insurance, holidays and the like. Therefore, in the Liberal Alliance, we look forward to the hearing we will have here later this month and hope that the parliamentary parties, all parties, are prepared to take a more general discussion on how to ensure better framework conditions for care and network families in Denmark. The fact that some foster families feel that they are threatened directly or indirectly with resignation, if they claim help, is, of course, completely unheard of. It goes without saying that good cooperation between the municipality and the foster family is absolutely essential for the child's well-being in the foster family, and one fears, of course, that this vulnerable foster child will get into trouble if there is no good cooperation. I believe that both municipalities and foster families are interested in good cooperation, and that is why I believe that if there are conflicts, they stem from unclear legislation. As in many other areas, the law is also very complicated in this area, and the system is extremely heavy. This makes it difficult for both foster families and municipalities to navigate it, and I think that is what we find at the heart of the problem. Because when you can sit and discuss annexes back and forth with a case worker, discuss what the municipality covers and what it does not cover, it is because both parties are not aware of what the municipality covers and what the municipality does not cover. So I think our task here in the Folketing is to prepare the legislation. Because if the legislation is clear and you know what is being covered and what is not being covered and when, then I do not think there is any basis for so many misunderstandings and disagreements, and I believe that this can strengthen cooperation. That is also why we in the Liberal Alliance want to look more generally at this issue. I think we need to talk about debureaucratisation, which has become a bit of a buzzword, but which is important in this area too. As far as remuneration is concerned, again I do not think we can look at remuneration in isolation, because it is linked to the general conditions that it does for everyone else who has a job. You not only look at the payroll, you also look at pensions and the general conditions you have, and of course that also applies to network and foster families. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we support the text adopted by Mr Lalor. Jan E. Jørgensen previously read out, and as among others. calls on the government to work to create security and stability in the area of family care, and we look forward, as I said, to the hearing that will be held later this month and hope that we can then have a broad debate on the general conditions for foster families.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205104538	Thank you. When you experience some of the cases that we have experienced recently, with very serious failures in foster families, there are two things that become incredibly important. One, of course, is to solve the problems that are about these really, really bad failures. That's the most important thing. But another thing that is also incredibly important is to ensure that all the good foster families who do a great job are not demonised. I think it is an ordinary human thing that if you are a foster family who has made yourself available to an exposed child and hears such things in the media, you think: as long as no one now suspects us; as long as people now know that we are decent people here in our family and that we are really doing as well as we can. Therefore, it is important that we do not use such a case here to demonise the many good families, but perhaps in reality it is using it even more to recognise the families who are doing a really good job. It is vulnerable children who are the real target in the debate we have today, and it is children whose lives have taken a turn over which they themselves are not masters. They are children who need to be separated from their families and who are totally dependent that society in terms of municipalities and in this case foster families • network care families, municipal foster families and so-called ordinary foster families • do the right thing. Every irregularity, conflict and disagreement between the actors responsible for ensuring that these children are restored to a good childhood has a potential negative impact on children. Therefore, it is also a good thing that DF puts the area on the agenda so that we can review it and ensure that it works as well as possible. It is indeed a very, very good thing that there are foster families. In the alternative, we have a huge respect for the families who make the work for vulnerable children to have a safe everyday life, a life project. Because it's a life project when you take a exposed child into your family. Well, it is crucial for the child's opportunities to thrive and to have his or her opportunities in life, and it affects the family forever. Therefore, we are pleased that the Ankestyrelsen's study, which is only one and a half years old, tells us that most of the foster families experience good cooperation with the municipalities. It is especially the cooperation between the family consultant and the family that gets good judgment in the study, and it is very good, as the family consultants have direct contact with the families. It tells of good cooperation in everyday life, which certainly has a positive impact on the children affected and their lives. When you look at the cooperation between families and the authorities, you can see that the assessments are still largely positive, but with a greater proportion of assessments expressing dissatisfaction from both municipalities and families. It also points to the fact that the problems we have been documented in the area of care are more about overall cooperation. When you ask the parties about the problems involved in cooperation, they answer that it is primarily a question of pay problems, i.e. the wage fixing for foster families. It brings with it a lot of bureaucracy. Today we have had concrete examples of families who have been deprived of part of their remuneration without justification, and that is something that needs to be looked at, of course. We need to control the working and wage conditions of foster families. As Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil also says, it may well be that very good individual agreements need to be made depending on whether you are a network care family, a community foster family or a so-called ordinary foster family. The Ankestyrelsen has also found, when examining a large number of cases, that the families have been successful for almost 40%. of the complaints relating to the transfer of a child to another location. We are aware that there may be many reasons for that figure, but it is too high. So it is not to talk about very good cooperation between municipalities and foster families, and in particular the good work done by foster families, even though there have been and are a number of cases that are unhappy and totally unacceptable. There are thousands of collaborations between municipalities and foster families that work very well around the country, but there is of course reason to be super attentive to the area. There are specific things that need to be improved, and they can be improved a little bit. That is why we are also pleased that the DF has taken the initiative on this question debate, and we think that the text of the proposal for adoption that has been tabled addresses the challenges in this area well, both overall and in relation to the specific issues of family remuneration. We believe that this attention to the subject can further improve conditions for those who, as I started by saying, are the main target group in this matter, namely children who have come into a situation where they are dependent on society in terms of municipalities and foster families being able to do the right thing in a situation that can be both really difficult and really complex. We look forward to helping to improve the conditions for network care families, municipal care families and ordinary foster families for the benefit of vulnerable children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205105039	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. It does not appear that the Radical Left is present, so we move on to the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205105053	SF's starting point will always be the child's or the young person's perspective... it should also be in this discussion. Children and young people in custody are an exposed group. Many have a history of failure, abuse, violence, and mental vulnerability, and the placement has been the only way to ensure security and care. The most important task is to ensure that that is the case. Although placement in those cases is the best for the child, it also involves separation from parents and often also from the network. That is why it is so important that separation, uncertainty and insecurity are replaced by stability, continuity and lasting relations. A number of children placed in care do worse than their peers in terms of education, work, and well - being later in life. One reason is instability and breakage. We should do everything possible to limit that. Every child is unique and has its unique history. What is good for the individual child must therefore always be based on a specific individual assessment. Each placement therefore requires a thorough examination of the child's needs and a good matching between the child and the place of placement, be it a foster family, a place of residence or a day-care institution. If a foster family is to be able to take responsibility, it requires ensuring that the family has the necessary resources and competences. That is why it is necessary for continuous development of competence and supervision to be part of the conditions of employment. Many vulnerable children and young people have a history with which the adults around them have found it difficult to cooperate. This puts the children at extra risk if the cooperation doesn't work. The Ankestyrelsen's report on the cooperation between foster families and municipalities generally shows, yes, that there is satisfaction with the cooperation, but it also shows that conflicts around care provision are one of the most common causes of conflict between a municipality and a foster family. So how many of the breaks the children and young people are experiencing because of conflicts about remuneration, we do not quite know. We must ensure continuity for the child, by making interruptions and terminations of care provision on the basis of objective reasons in relation to the best interests of the child and not due to differences in remuneration and working conditions. That is why this debate is important, but it is also because there has been a major development in the area of placement, both in the context of the placement reform and as a result of the child's reform. The family care area has become more and more professionalised, not least in connection with the introduction of the municipal care families. The foster families must be able to take responsibility for children who are in greater need than just a family that can care for them. Complex problems require more than a big heart. This requires a social educational effort and therefore requires both special qualifications and cooperation with other professionals. The area therefore ranges entirely from family and network care to family care to municipal family care, with different requirements for the degree of professionalism; but common to all of them is that it is not just a job that you can quit if you are dissatisfied with pay and working conditions. This should also be reflected in the way in which remuneration is paid, and it should therefore be considered whether the way in which remuneration is linked is actually appropriate for the development of family life. One should, for example: consider whether an agreement in certain parts of the family care area would be relevant. We in the SF are also concerned about creating good transitions to adult life, among other things. in the form of after-protection. You know what I mean? I mean, you know what I'm saying? be that you stay a little longer with your foster family. Here, too, it must not be a dispute over the remuneration of the foster family that determines whether or not the young person is protected. Unfortunately, it is often, or sometimes at least sometimes. I would like to sum up that we should follow closely the local authorities' practice in this area, including the mapping of remuneration models and the evaluation of the rate pool initiatives that the Minister has also mentioned. Children and young people need a clear framework for their placement and adults who are responsible for them can work together to create the best conditions for care and support. It is quite unreasonable for children and young people to get into trouble because they cannot agree on remuneration, pensions, holidays and so on. I have to say that the SF supports the proposal for adoption that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205105541	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205105551	Thank you. I have simply looked forward to that debate today because I think it is important and so necessary. I'd like to start by playing with completely open cards so I don't get the Ekstra Bladet or anyone else after me. Because I have shares in this case myself, in the sense that my parents are foster parents and have been for almost 14 years. That's where I got my first little foster sister who's still with us today. When asked, I say that I have six siblings, three of whom are foster sisters, but they feel like normal family. I would never dream of distinguishing between those things. It also means that my parents earn money from being foster parents. They are what they call ordinary foster parents, but I can reassure that I am not getting allowance from my mother and father anymore, so it is not because I have an economic interest in fighting for better conditions for foster families. In the context of the child's reform, in which my Conservative colleague, Kiær Benedike, played a key role, we strengthened the use of foster families. This also means that today there are a large number of children who now come to foster families who may have come to an institution in the past, and that gives an even greater job for foster families, because they are children who have even more in their luggage, who need to know how to handle as a family. But I think this is the right development, because I believe as a human being that family relations are one of the most valuable things. And even though we have some 24-hour institutions where I also know that staff are doing an amazing job, I do not think there is anything that can replace the ties that you associate with a family. So in this way we think it is a more appropriate method of placement, and if we are finally to make it up to money, which I really think is irrelevant, then foster families are also quite an inexpensive method of placement compared to the other tools we have to use. Now that we are setting up to use foster families more, it is also quite worrying that the foster families' organization is actually going out to warn against becoming foster families. I remember that some time ago the City of Copenhagen was looking for a foster family on Facebook for an infant who could not stay with her mother. I think that was a bit of an eye-opener for many that you were out to announce on Facebook for something so essential. Rather that they did it than that they hadn't done it, but for me it was just an example that we have to talk about how to make it more attractive to be a foster family. What the foster families themselves point to is that they feel a little trapped in no man's land. When they ask KL, the answer is: you are at least not employees, so we will not make any agreement with you that contains pension or something like a period of notice. Despite the fact that my mother today works full-time as a foster mother, she will theoretically be able to be terminated at one month's notice. There's an extreme uncertainty in the job. So she also has other children to support, and I understand that this is a great uncertainty for a great many foster families around the country. When you ask SKAT, they say: No, you are not self-employed, so you cannot be allowed to use the benefits that would be in it if you got that stamp on your neck. So you're not an employee, you're not self-employed, you're basically not really anything. And I understand that there are some foster families that find extremely unsatisfactory, namely that public authorities cannot agree on what they are basically. Then there's this schism with holiday money that I mentioned earlier. I can understand foster families who pay 12 1⁄2% every month. of their tax in holiday money, so when they come to pay out, they are told: Well you can't take a vacation if you have your children with you, because that's your job. So if you want your holiday money, you can drop the kids off at a 24-hour institution or at another foster family, and then you can take a vacation. Fortunately, I don't know a single foster family who's done this. I have never come across a foster family who has chosen that solution, because of course you take a vacation with your child, because the child is part of the family. But that also means you pay this 12 1⁄2%. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. I do not know many others who would accept that it was an element of their pay. I also think it is important to say this when we talk about the level of wages, as there was a little talk about earlier. Then there's the entire pay model. There's been talk about it today. The paradox of being punished for being good at your job gives a completely wrong incentive structure. It is also something that needs to be dealt with. Then it is also important to say that there is a huge difference between the municipalities in this matter. Some municipalities do very well, but there's also a very big difference between how much these foster families get covered in the municipality they live in. I know of foster families who have children from several municipalities. In one municipality you get covered if the child is to be confirmed if it wants to go to leisure activities. There is no problem in getting support lessons at school, if that is what is needed. In other municipalities you have to get out of the pay you get for being a foster family, even pay for all the extra things that may be: camping school and everything else, so you just have to keep an eye on, when you talk about the level of pay, that it isn't, after all, because you get everything that concerns the child. Finally, I would just like to say that this cooperation with the municipalities, which are sometimes threatened, is so unacceptable and totally unacceptable. Now the President has risen, so I should like to round off, but thank you for raising this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110205	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social and Interior Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110220	Then the time has come to thank you for a good and constructive debate, which clearly shows a great deal of commitment in this very important area. Because it is indisputable that foster families are undertaking an important and also a very, very valuable task of creating security and stability for the children placed in care. I would also like to thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard for being very open about exactly the personal experience of the work, and I think that only enriches the debate. And it is also an enrichment of the debate that there is good and close contact with many of the Danish foster families, who fortunately have more nuanced pictures of how everyday life is and how things work. I am pleased that there is also agreement in the pool that the many initiatives that we have put into the sea with the aim of ensuring stable placement courses and also a better framework for the work of the foster families are something that we are keeping our hands on. Because these are initiatives that we all have an interest in following closely otherwise we would not take such initiatives so that we succeed in creating security and tranquillity for the children who are placed in foster families. So, in those words, I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you for highlighting an important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110356	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Is it as rapporteur or is it for questions? Questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110408	I would like to hear from the Minister, when we now have the survey here in the summer of 2016 on the remuneration model, whether the Minister intends to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110421	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110424	The short answer to that question is: Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110428	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110431	I would just like to acknowledge this, and I would like to say to the Minister that we look forward to it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110437	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110443	That is just a comment on it, because Mrs Karina Adsbøl also asked in her rapporteur's speech about being focused on how to examine alternative models of cost coverage in relation to network care families. I would just like to say that it is also part of the work that we saw when we have looked at it that we are discussing jointly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110501	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard who has also just signed up with a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110508	Yeah, thanks for that. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she could be open to looking at whether municipal autonomy somewhere has won too much in this area, in the sense that there is so much difference between municipalities in what ways children will be supported. I can really be a fan of municipal self-government when the citizen has a choice and can say: now I am moving the municipality, because I will not put up with this. But children placed in care do not choose which municipality places them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110536	Let me start by emphasising that I am a great supporter of local self-government, but I fully agree that there is a huge difference between what you are working on and what you are compensating for. This is also the reason why we have agreed to draw up this guide, because the municipalities are also asking for knowledge about different models, different ways of doing so. I do not think there is any way around it, and I think it is quite important to make it clear that the municipalities have an interest in the functioning of this area, for the sole reason that they can see that it is precisely for the benefit of the children who need accommodation by being placed in stable foster families.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110617	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110620	Thank you for your answer. I look forward to the further work we need with this area. Finally, I would like to stress that it is not specifically the remuneration that I am thinking of in relation to different models, but it is here that in a municipality the child has the right to go on a week's holiday a year and get it paid, and you may have the right to receive subsidies for your confirmation and other things, while in other municipalities it is completely unthinkable. This gives very different conditions and differences in what children are actually entitled from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110652	However, part of municipal autonomy is also that there are different levels of service. It is clear that it can easily create discussions, in relation to whether you do one in one municipality and not in the other. However, I still believe that it is important to establish in relation to the different conditions and frameworks that this is not something we regulate in the Services Act. That is why such guidance is quite important, because I think that the municipalities have an interest in the proper functioning of this situation and that they do not play each other off against each other, as it were, in terms of the organisation of both work, the maintenance and conditions for foster families and foster children in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110730	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205110738	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party would like to thank you for the debate. I can sense that all the parties in the Folketing are in complete agreement that we should look at this issue, even in relation to our joint proposal for adoption, which I am of course pleased that we have jointly made, because that is exactly what moves us when we have to act on it. I would also like to comment on something that was said in this Chamber today, including what Mrs Abildgaard has just asked, because it is quite true that today there are different levels of service around the municipalities, which means that some people can get help and others cannot get help. This is, of course, a problem that we have raised repeatedly in consultation, which I think we should also look at, possibly also in debates on the area of adult determination. We're gonna have to take a look at that. Then I fully agree with what has been said today that it is of course important not to demonise an entire professional group. That may often be the way you think about it. It is quite true that there are a lot of foster families doing a huge job and taking children into their hearts. Therefore, it is also really difficult for many foster families if they suddenly have to get rid of the foster child again, because a municipality chooses to either move the child to another place, or, after the new forced abortion law has passed, we have heard some examples of this if you do not want to adopt the child, the child is removed. So I think there are several challenges we should have looked at. The foster family area is a huge area. It is about a lot of things, including the right match between the foster family and the child, so there is less breakdown in the placements, and then it is also about the challenges that are also about what Mrs Mette Abildgaard said in her speech, precisely that there are some grey areas in the area. So we in the Danish People's Party are looking forward to being invited to discussions with the minister, and we are also looking forward to the conference that will be held in February, where the headline is: What do we want with the foster family area? It also gives us something more to work on when we have what it is all about. Finally, thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111016	We thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 9 February 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111038	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111051	After all, there is no tradition at all that there is any debate at all on draft supplementary budget proposals, and there is not, of course, because it is a relatively technical and therefore also relatively out-of-date legislative proposal. However, when I choose to speak today at the first reading, this is because, in this way, when we deal with the draft supplementary budget, we are at the same time taking a position on the arrangements made by successive governments in 2015 and the work we have done in the Committee on Finance. And now, as a member of the Committee on Finance, I think that in general we are doing a good and sober job of praise to both the chairman and all the members of the committee. But it is also imperative that we stress that it is, of course, the case that a government must at all times ensure that it has a parliamentary majority in relation to the actions taken, whatever the colour of the government, and that is why I think it is appropriate to be criticized in relation to the arrangements made by the current government in relation to development aid. As you know, a short time ago this week, the Foreign Affairs Committee dealt with this issue and also expressed its criticism of the Foreign Minister. That is why I would like to point out briefly that a majority of parties also intend to criticise this bill in connection with this bill. It is about the Social Democracy, the Conservative People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Alternative and the Radical Left who intend to make this criticism in connection with the report. I also hope, of course, that the Minister will explain here how he intends to ensure that this issue is not dealt with in the future. After all, it should not be the case that we get Estrupian dimensions into Danish legislation where a government makes arrangements without having the support of the Folketing. With these words, of course, I must inform you that, in addition to the very remarks we intend to make together with a majority in connection with the report, the Social Democrats will, moreover, vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111343	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111347	I understand that this is the fact that according to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has not spent enough money on development aid in 2015, which is why Mr. Benny Engelbrecht takes the floor. I should like to hear from the majority who believe that the government should have spent some more money on development aid, is there any agreement on where the money would come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111414	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111416	The criticism that a majority agrees to make is that parliamentary support must be secured. Well, I guess so, too, sir. Ole Birk Olesen agrees that you should have. It is such a more fundamental question, that is to say, that we as a government have to make sure that we have a majority behind the measures that we take financially and economically. So here we are dealing not with the substance of the proposal, but with the principle of not having a majority in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111450	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111453	Now it is the easiest thing in the world to obtain a majority in favour of spending some money in one area. It is now harder to obtain a majority for where to find the money. So I'd like to ask Mr. Benny Engelbrecht: If the majority had decided that in 2015 we would spend a very high amount of money, let's say 10 billion. kr. More on development aid in Africa, it would then be the government's duty to spend 10 billion. kr. More on development aid in Africa, if this majority did not at the same time indicate where the money would come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111521	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111524	Now it has to be said that, in principle, it is therefore the responsibility of the current government to secure parliamentary support. I also understand that the criticisms made by the Foreign Minister have been taken into account. And, of course, I hope that such incidents do not happen again. I can also stress that it is, of course, essential to ensure that things are consistent, but that will also be the responsibility of the government. If a government can see that there is a parliamentary lack of support for its policy, then it must act accordingly or resign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111601	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted No, there is one who wishes to speak for a brief remark. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go. So it's good to get in, 'cause then I can see it from up here. Here you go. Pelle Dragsted Sorry, I'll be right back).
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111618	Well, the rapporteur should not be sorry, because I came very late because it was the very last thing, sir. Benny Engelbrecht said that made me press the button. And, of course, it was just like that at the last minute. The rapporteur says that it is of course important to ensure that you have a parliamentary majority. But was the government in doubt as to whether it was present? The reason I ask that is that it is quite interesting what is being asked here. I mean, is social democracy against what happened? But what about the way in which we finance, among other things? the immigration on which is happening to Denmark at the moment, among other things. by tagging in relation to foreign aid? So how are you supposed to handle it? You're supposed to deal with it per year. When we see new people coming across the border and thus have to take more in relation to foreign aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111702	I think that expression, sir. René Christensen is looking for that DAC, not to tag. René Christensen Yes). That is true, but as I understand it, there is also a majority in favour of supporting the government in that DAC, that is, using funds from development aid to deal with the refugee situation in Denmark. So there is no real challenge to this, whereas in this particular case there has not been a majority behind the government's actions. And I think it should be the case that we can present things here in the Chamber. Moreover, I would like to say to the question of whether the government has had doubts as to whether there has been a majority in relation to it, that I think the Minister should come up here and explain it. I guess we should leave that to the government itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111757	Thank you. Then there should be no further brief comments. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205111807	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur also said, the examination of the draft supplementary budget is usually a mere formality, and it is also rare for rapporteurs to speak at all in this debate. As the submission also shows, this is, after all, a formal approval of the changes in appropriations made by the government last year, i.e. in 2015. It is not a question of whether we are for or against, that is, there is no economic discussion, but it is a purely budgetary approval of the budget change in the year that has gone by, as stated in the statement made in the statement, on expected post-financing. So it is usually a mere formality. This year, however, we are in a slightly different and somewhat special situation, because when the draft law here can normally be adopted automatically without debate, that is to say on expected post-financing, it is because, during the year, the government has ensured that, in all the changes in appropriations it has implemented, it has had a majority behind it, and this is where we have a problem this year. For as most people have probably discovered, when it comes to these huge billion cuts in development aid in 2015, the government has just not secured the support of a majority in the Folketing. On the contrary, the government has ignored a majority of the people by ignoring a motion for a resolution which required the government to take back this money which had been taken without having a clear legal basis for it, which the other day also put a considerable nose on the Foreign Minister, and in this respect I would like to commend the Conservative People's Party for having taken part and stood firm in this and saying that it is not in order. Now we are standing here today, and the Minister for Finance is asking us to approve the supplementary appropriation bill on expected post-financing, and that puts the Danish Parliament in a dilemma. Because can we just approve an additional appropriation which will stamp out the government's cuts in development aid, for which it has not had a majority? In fact, we should vote the bill down and that would mean that the government should resign. However, although the Conservatives deserve praise for being ready to take some steps here, it is hardly a step they are prepared to take, and that is also understandable when they are the government's support party. On the other hand, I do not think it is right that we should set a precedent for the government to be able to make such substantial changes in appropriations during the year, in other words in the billions class, contrary to what a majority of the House wants. That seems to me to be a serious democratic problem, indeed, it is a bit subversive of how our people's government works. It should not be something that separated us across party color; it should be something that worried us all, regardless of which party we come from and whichever government sits. That is why I am also pleased that a majority has already indicated that the work of the committee and the report on the legislative proposal will correct a criticism of the government, and at the same time make it clear that the automatic nature of the adoption of the draft supplementary budget requires the government to make sure that it has a majority behind the actions it is taking in the future, because the expected post-financing precisely presupposes that there is confidence in the government. And I also hope that the Minister of Finance will take the floor and respond to this criticism and I hope that he will also make it clear that this is not something that will be repeated in the coming years. Because otherwise this formality will suddenly no longer be a formality. In the Enhedslisten, in the light of this debate, we will be dealing with how we ultimately vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112156	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112202	Sir. Pelle Dragsted says that the government has set itself up against expenditure that a majority in the Danish Parliament is in favour of. I'd like to have Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted to answer whether in this Parliament a single law has been passed on whether a single act has been adopted in the Parliament's Finance Committee on expenditure which the government has not paid with an actual appropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112234	But now the problem is that this is a small amount of consumption. A certain level of development aid has been adopted by a majority in the Folketing, and the government has wanted to change this already in 2015, i.e. before adopting the Finance Act 2016 and that is fair enough, because that is a political position. And we may disagree on that, but when you make such arrangements, you should ensure that you have a majority behind you. That is precisely why a majority has indicated, first through a motion for a resolution and then a nose to the Foreign Minister, that this has not been done properly, and I am rather annoyed that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is taking this rather polemical approach to it. Because I really believe that the rapporteur, even though he is now supporting the current government, can see the problem in that. But let us now say that there was a government which the rapporteur did not support and which made major budgetary adjustments without securing the support of a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112330	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112334	I believe that the controversy is entirely on the Enhedslisten side. I do not think that a majority in this Parliament or in the Parliament's Finance Committee has allocated money to something that the government has not also honoured. So it is the other way round that there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament who has expressed a wish that more money should be spent on development aid in 2015, but this majority has not been able to come together to indicate where the money should come from. And that's the easiest thing in the world. In principle, the majority would say that the government must now grant the money for a space trip to the moon without being able to point out together where the money should come from, and that is what Mr. Pelle Dragsted is the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112425	In fact, I find it a little worrying that the chairman of the Parliamentary Finance Committee has that approach to this. For there is no question of a majority in the Folketing wanting to spend more money than was originally provided. A Finance Act has been adopted last year, for 2015, which involves a certain consumption of development aid, and that consumption the government has wanted to reduce. So it is not a parliamentary majority that comes and tells the government that more money needs to be spent, but a government that chooses to spend less money than a majority has decided, without making sure that there was a majority behind the smaller allocation, and that could be many other things. It could be a government that came and said that it would spend less money on some of what the Liberal Alliance thinks is a good idea, without securing a majority. So it is not a question of travelling to the moon or anything else, but it is a question of a fundamental democratic problem and that significant downward budgetary regulation should also have a democratic foundation in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112512	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112520	Thank you. After all, as has already been mentioned here from the platform, there is no custom to speak in today's debate, but the additional allocation for 2015 contains substantial cuts in development aid in funds that had already been allocated. Cutting funds which had already been allocated is a problem in itself, but the part of the additional allocation with which the alternative has serious problems is that it does not contain the recovery of funds which a majority in the Folketing imposed on the government. When I go to the platform here today, it is because with this draft supplementary budget, if an expected post-grant, it is manifest that the government has chosen to go against a majority in the Folketing, and that is what I and the alternative think is a deeply serious situation. So a majority of the Folketing voted to protect just some of the funds that had already been set aside for development aid in 2015. It was money that was budgeted in the organisations for projects for the world's poorest. In other words, the government took well over 2.7 billion. kr. It is a fact that the Commission has not been able to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Committee on the Environment, It is, in itself, scandalous. Global inequality across countries and continents is one of the absolutely greatest challenges facing the international community. We have a world in the greatest imbalance since World War II, and millions of people are on the move because they do not see a hope for better times when they are. It's very serious. Our world is becoming less and more closely connected and at the same time more and more unbalanced. Where there is hope, there is reason to stay. That is why it is more important than ever that we should not just close ourselves to ourselves. We need to push for positive changes all over the world, and much more needs to be pushed on than we are doing today. A majority of the Folketing had then ordered the government to repay 1.4 billion. kr. of the funds already committed, so that development aid for 2015 would end up at 0.8%. of GNP. But the government chose to oppose a majority in the Folketing. It is to undermine democracy and not take the Folketing seriously. We are here because we are elected with the composition that the Danish citizens have wanted and that composition must be respected. I think it is a serious democratic problem that the government does not listen to a democratically elected majority. I would like to read out the nose that has been given: a majority in the committee finds it highly questionable that the government does not intend to follow the majority of the people. It is a cornerstone of Danish democracy that the government's actions must be consistent with those of the majority, even if it disagrees. Otherwise, parliamentary democracy will become erode and it will be impossible to create trusting cooperation between the government and the Folketing. The government's refusal to comply with the majority of the parliament means, in the specific case, that a number of aid projects have had to be cancelled, leaving people without the help they need, while Denmark's reputation as a credible partner in relation to developing countries likes a crack. • If we are to strengthen confidence in the political system and if we are to maintain a well-functioning democracy that we can all be proud of, then we need to uphold key principles and not just compromise when it does not match the priorities of the government's redistribution between rich and poor. So we are sitting in here because we are elected to represent democracy. It is a harmful signal to send out that the government can ignore the majority of voters. That should not be possible, and it is a principle that we should all play a part in maintaining. That is also why I have taken the floor today. I think this debate is important. We must remind each other of the responsibility we have in here, and we must jointly ensure that we do not start to introduce a practice that damages faith in democracy. I would therefore urge the Minister to take the floor and help debate this and, depending on how the Minister handles this discussion, the alternative will consider how we are going to vote on this additional allocation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112912	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112916	I would like to ask Mrs Josephine Fock: when the alternative came together, among other things. The Conservatives and Enhedslisten and decided that they would require the government to spend more money on development aid in 2015 than the government had thought, what was agreed among the parties about where the money would come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112937	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112940	As has already been said here from the platform, we have not made an agreement on this. What is basically for me here is that the government chooses to oppose a majority of the parliament and I think that is the important debate. We need to be able to trust that if there is a majority in the parliament, the government will abide by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112956	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205112959	Yes, but there's just the fact that all the other expenses incurred in 2015, there's also a majority of the parliament. Then there is a parliamentary majority next door, because there is one or more parties that so change sides and say: we need both money here and spend money there. But the money has to come from somewhere. So if you want to spend more money on foreign aid, you have to find them some of the other places where you have said you have to spend the money too. What was agreed in the circle of parties about where the money would come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113029	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113033	I think I have just answered that, namely that this was not the part we were discussing. So, what we are discussing is that we are dealing with a financial law from 2015 which the government chooses to prioritise differently, and of course the government is entitled to do so. There is then a majority of the people who say that we do not agree with the change in priorities. Then it is problematic that we have a government that overhears that majority of the people. I can't believe that the Liberal Alliance is taking this position, that is to say that it doesn't matter. The Liberal Alliance, like all the other parties in this House, should ensure that it is important that there is always a majority in the Folketing in favour of the decisions being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113111	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113119	Thank you. It seems a bit odd that people, for example. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, who takes money from the Treasury and gives it to villa owners and to owners of large cars in the form of tax and tax cuts, now hascelerates that others would have liked to have kept some of this money and done as planned, namely give it to some of the world's poorest. It is, of course, a clear example of which class positions, in my opinion, exist in the Liberal Alliance and what an antisocial view is behind those views.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113154	Was there a question for the rapporteur? The rapporteur is welcome to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113203	I also heard it more as a comment. And then I'd say I don't want to interfere with how the Liberal Alliance prioritises it, I think it's entirely up to the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance has been elected and has some views that I respect, of course. But, on the other hand, I also assume and hope that this is what I said before I said that all parties in this Chamber respect the fact that there should be a majority in Parliament when we make decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113225	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113228	I try with a further short question which I understand before was perceived as a comment and that is quite fine. Is it not to turn things upside down to say that a government which spends the money in advance without having a guarantee of its majority is in fact the one responsible for the absence of the economy when you are in such a situation as you are doing now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113255	I would say to that that I find it problematic that we have a government that is going in and prioritizing against Parliament's decision. Yeah, and that's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113311	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160205113329	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 9 February 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
