ParlaMint-DK_20160817100005	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 8 June 2016, it was decided that the responsibility for certain tasks relating to Boards of Appeal has been transferred from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, from the Minister for Children, Education and Gender, and from the Minister for Environment and Food to the Minister for Business and Growth, and that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 24 June 2016, it was determined that the responsibility for the Administrative Library is transferred from the Minister for Education and Research to the Minister for Culture. The notifications will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). In my opinion, the Royal Resolution of 8 June provides that the responsibility for the Telecomplaint Board, including Title VII of the Act on Electronic Communications Networks and Services, is to be transferred from the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs to the Minister of Industry and Growth per year. On 1 January 2017, the Board of Appeal's responsibility for the Internship Companies and the Dispute Board, including the responsibility for the reduction and the activities of the Board of Appeal, cf. 2-4, and Section 64 of the Vocational Training Act, are transferred from the Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities to the Minister for Industry and Growth per year. 1 January 2017, and that the Resort Responsibility for the Energy Complaints Board and the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, including the Law on the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, is transferred from the Minister for the Environment and Food to the Minister for Business and Growth per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen / Christian Hesthaven ]. According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 24 June 2016 provides that the responsibility for the Administrative Library is transferred from the Minister for Education and Research to the Minister for Culture. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen / Christian Hesthaven ]. The Socialist People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, has been appointed to replace Jonas Dahl for the remainder of the current term of office. The Tax Committee has submitted: Report on the acquisition of claims by municipalities. 8) and the Committee on the Environment and Food submitted: Report on information and assessments received by Parliament. 9). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100129	As the groups have already been informed, the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot be present in the Chamber today, and that is why the Minister for Defence is speaking on behalf of the government. The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100206	The international community has a common ambition to get rid of chemical weapons. I think there are good reasons for this ambition and reasons for supporting it, especially when we remember the images we have seen over the ages of people who have actually been exposed to and have fallen victim to chemical weapons. There is also very good reason to be satisfied that the Danish defence can contribute to the elimination of chemical weapons, as happened in Syria's chemical weapons in 2014 and as can now be done with the chemical substances which constitute precursors of chemical weapons and which are located in Libya. That is, of course, the question and the participation that we have to deal with today. For the Social Democratic Party, Denmark's commitment and commitment to the world that surrounds us does not mean that at all times and always and in any case, we must stand up, but that we always give positive consideration to it when the world community asks for our efforts. In this situation, when it comes to reducing the global quantity of chemical weapons or the possibility of making them, the purpose is clearly good and right. With UN Security Council Resolution 2298 of 22 July this year, the international community has called for countries to help destroy the remains of Libya's chemical weapons. This is happening, among other things. With reference to the fear that non-state actors could get their hands on chemical weapons. We know that the Islamic State is present in Libya and with the behaviour and brutality of the Islamic State, among others. Iraq and Syria, then, there should not be much imagination to imagine how terrible it would be if they were to be able to acquire chemical weapons. The Social Democrats support the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100420	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100436	In 2013 and 2014, Denmark participated in the chemical weapons disposal operation from Syria. The task was performed to the highest grade. It is a similar task that Denmark has been asked to carry out regarding chemical weapons in Libya. Denmark, of course, has a great interest in preventing evil forces such as the Islamic State or other terrorist organisations from getting their hands on chemical weapons. As Denmark is proven to have the expertise to transport weapons away, we in the Danish People's Party can only welcome the fact that the Danish Parliament supports the use of this expertise to transport chemical weapons from Libya. The Danish People's Party therefore supports B 197.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100524	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100535	After all, it is good that it seems that today we are a united Parliament that says no to ISIL and other terrorist groups being able to access chemical weapons. The task of removing the remains of Colonel Gaddafi's notorious chemical weapons program is extremely important. Terrorist groups such as ISIL do not spend any money in their efforts to create fear and horror, and if terrorist groups get hold of the media for the production of chemical weapons, we will face an even greater problem, if possible, than today. This must not happen, and therefore it is both Denmark's duty and in Denmark's interest to assist in the work of removing the remains of the chemical weapons programme from Libya. The majority of the weapons programme has already been destroyed, but there is still a remnant in Libya. These are mainly chemicals which can be used in the manufacture of chemical weapons. The operation in which Denmark will participate takes place within the framework of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and with the backing of the UN Security Council, cf. Resolution 2298. The legal basis is therefore in order and there is broad international support for the mission. At the same time, at the request of the UN-recognized Libyan Government, the remnants of the arms programme are being disposed of and, as you know, it is unfortunately very weak. Therefore, as an international community, we should contribute as much as possible to supporting it, including responding to a request for aid for the disposal of the remains of the chemical weapons programme. While ISIL is retreating in Syria and Iraq, it seems that the terrorist organisation has become a little bit better in Libya. It is therefore essential that the remains of the chemical arms programme be brought out of Libya so that there is no risk of them falling into the wrong hands. It is not certain that, for example, ISIL has the necessary knowledge to use the chemicals. But under no circumstances is this an area in which we should take risks. It is a task that must be solved before it is too late. Only a small amount of chemical weapons could create immense fear and horror in Europe or anywhere else in the world, and we should therefore ensure that these chemicals are removed very quickly. Denmark has previously contributed to the disposal of the chemical weapons programme in Syria, where Denmark played a leading role. It was an operation that was considerably more extensive than the current operation in Libya, and Denmark therefore has some experience in precisely this type of operation. It is therefore quite natural that Denmark contributes with competences in this regard and once again assumes a leading role in sailing elements of chemical weapons away from the conflict area. Denmark is a small country, but it is no excuse not to make a contribution to common security. This is not symbolic politics, because the Danish contribution is going to make a huge difference. We cannot just be sure that there are some others who can and will do the job if Denmark does not. And it is certainly not a completely harmless mission that Danish soldiers and personnel are now going on. Unfortunately, large parts of Libya are not entirely under the control of the assembly government, which is why it is also important that we here from the Folketing today send a clear message that we are now standing together on the mission and sending the Danish soldiers the greatest possible mandate, so that this very, very important task can be solved not only for Denmark but for the whole world. In those words, the Left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100936	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817100942	The Enhedslisten supports a Danish contribution to the destruction of the remains of Libya's chemical weapons, and we supported Danish participation in the destruction of Syria's chemical weapons. I think it is positive that Denmark can contribute to the disarmament and destruction of weapons of mass destruction. And at a time when armament and violent wars are taking place around us, it is good that the Danish military can be used to support a UN resolution, exactly Resolution 2298 of July this year, when the Member States are called upon to help the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. For the Enhedslisten it is important that this resolution follows international law and that Denmark does not become a general part of the conflicts in Libya. Similarly, it is, of course, important for us to ensure that the destruction takes place in a sound manner in relation to the environment and safety. The situation in Libya is chaotic right now and it is therefore important that the chemical substances come out of the country and be destroyed. With our participation in the destruction of Syria's chemical weapons, Denmark received a great international recognition. Now we can use the experience in Libya. I think it is positive. And I hope that it can become a tradition that Denmark actively supports disarmament and the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction. In this way, we will be able to contribute to security and more peaceful development around the world. Similarly, I hope that the disposal of chemical residues will be a small step on the way to creating a more general, stable development in frankly rather chaotic Libya. The Enhedslisten will therefore support the proposal from the government. However, there is a little wormwood in the cup, but I hope we can find a solution to that. Frankly, we are a little disappointed by the Secretary of Defense's refusal to secure Danish agreement for the civilian crew. We will therefore table a very specific amendment to ensure that the seamen, including the civilians, sail under the Danish agreement on the ship. We made a similar proposal immediately before the destruction of Syria's chemical weapons. We hope, of course, that there will be support from the rest of Parliament's parties for this minor change, so as to ensure that, perhaps even by a majority outside the government, there is an obstacle to state wage dumping in this very important matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817101247	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817101254	Thank you. Our defence rapporteur, Leif Mikkelsen, cannot be present, and that is why, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, I have to say the following: the use of chemical weapons is cruel, and therefore it is good that the Libyan Government is sticking to the 2004 agreement on the destruction of its chemical weapons stocks. As it was clear earlier this year that it was not possible for Libya to transfer the last chemical weapons by the end of 2016 as agreed, the Libyan Government of Unity asked the OPCW for assistance in carrying out the disposal and the request has been granted by the United Nations Security Council, which has expressed its support for the mission through a resolution. The UN has then called on Member States to provide support to Libya by contributing to the OPCW's plan for the destruction of Libya's chemical weapons. The Liberal Alliance supports a Danish contribution to an international maritime operation to help Libya dispose of its chemical weapons stockpiles. We believe that this is necessary from a humanitarian and security point of view. And we've done this before. Although the political situation in many ways is different in Libya, we can well draw parallels to the mission that Denmark led in Syria back in 2014. The year before, the world community witnessed the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime against its own people. I believe that many of us still remember the pictures of the use of nerve gas against the civilian population. It was very violent and it is a gross abuse that no one should be subjected to. The same must not therefore be allowed to happen again in Libya, which is in every way possible in a fragile constitution. That is why it is right to do everything possible to get these weapons out of the conflict area that Libya is still missing. In addition, the Security Council has, among other things: This call was motivated by the fact that chemical weapons would pose an increased security risk if they were to fall into the hands of non-state actors. If chemical weapons were to fall into the hands of terrorists or other malicious people, it would, of course, reduce the security situation in Libya, Europe and in the rest of the world community. In the Liberal Alliance we have no illusions that the disposal of chemical weapons has any peace-making effect in itself, but we remove the risk of the use of an element which we, as humanists, cannot stand to see used against a civilian population, just as the removal of Libya's chemical weapons stockpiles is undoubtedly in Denmark's interest from a security point of view. So with the two factors in mind, the Liberal Alliance can support Denmark's contribution to what has now been asked in this context, namely to transport chemical weapons out of Libya and at a safe distance from the risk that they will end up in the wrong hands. We are happy to contribute to this and the Liberal Alliance supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817101555	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817101602	Thank you. If the alternative agrees to contribute to military action, as is actually the case here, even if it does not have a military purpose, then there are some cuts that are essential for us to clarify. Very well has already been said, and it is a happy day when the whole parliament supports an international mission, but what I want to emphasise is that there is a UN resolution that precedes this and that we have a basis of international law that is fully in place. Yesterday we had a technical briefing where, in every possible way, I think, we got very good answers to our questions, and I see a strong understanding of what that means, that there will be Western forces as it is, and is in a zone where there is very unstable and there is a transitional phase in which the government may not need very much head wind, in order for there to be protests in the country. I experience that there is an incredibly good balance in the efforts outlined, which Denmark will make a balance that I could sometimes miss in other international missions that we are involved in, in relation to what effect it is that comes when we involve ourselves in other countries, whether we are sure that people have understood the good purpose, and whether it is perhaps the right thing to get involved in places where there may not be the full support for just the coalition that is coming. I think there are in every way here. Furthermore, we have a sensible idea of how to store the chemical substances that are being removed, the chemical weapons, and it is also completely in line with the rules that exist. So I think in every way this is a splendid example of how Denmark can actually go in and be a humanitarian power because we're not just part of this mission we're put in as a leader in this mission. And I think that is essential, it is a great cadeau and respect for the defense. Sometimes when we go out in the alternative and say that we want to focus only on the humanitarian and the drooling down of the military, it is not because we do not think we are good at the military. It is simply a vision and a set of values that we would like to go in and influence, so that Denmark primarily contributes when humanitarian or peace-building missions are involved. So this is a marvellous example of how we would like to contribute in the alternative, even if there is military involvement in what we say yes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817101826	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817101838	On a regular basis, and unfortunately all too often, we have had the opportunity here in the Parliamentary Assembly to perhaps annoy ourselves in foreign policy matters that the international community was not sufficiently able to stand together and jointly solve major challenges. Fortunately, today and this debate are not an expression of it. I think it is more an expression of the fact that the international community works best. For chemical weapons is one of the most terrible things that exists, and we have, unfortunately, all too recently examples of their use, even of a despotism against its own people. On that occasion in Syria, we contributed to the disposal of chemical weapons following an international agreement. Now is the opportunity there again to destroy chemical weapons and bring them far away from an unstable zone and bring them out of the world. On that occasion, we note that the United Nations Security Council has stepped in and adopted a resolution on the recommendation of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. On all sides, international law is in place. The international organisations have proved their worth and have fulfilled their respective roles. That is why the way has now been opened for us to be able, together with others, to carry out the task of helping the Libyan Government to remove the chemical weapons and have them destroyed. I really think there is reason to be proud of this, that is to say we have the capacity to contribute. I also think there is reason to welcome the fact that, when we have the capacity and the international community calling to us, there is complete and broad support in the Folketing for us to step in. In this context, I would also like to commend the government for its handling of the matter here in relation to the Folketing. We have been involved in the deliberations along the way, which has enabled us to come here today and that everyone can back up. In any case, on behalf of the Radical Left, I would like to say that we can support the motion for a resolution both with pride and with great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102043	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102056	There have been many sensible points made by other rapporteurs, which I shall not repeat here. I just want to say that we support this proposal. As has been said, Denmark has a solid experience of transporting chemical weapons. We did it from Syria in its time. And in that chemical weapons are one of the worst devilhoods there are there aren't clean weapons, but chemical weapons are still one of the worst things it is important that we destroy as much as possible wherever we can. Given the security situation in Libya, in other words the instability that exists, it is particularly important that we set about Libya, and that is also why we have been asked to do so. So there are all the prerequisites for us to go into this operation. Although, of course, there are also difficulties and dangers in it, it is natural for us to see that Denmark contributes to this. So we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102211	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102218	We in the Conservative People's Party support motion for a resolution No. B 197 to remove the remains of Gaddafi's chemical weapons from Libya. I am actually proud that we in Denmark are being asked for such a task because we have expertise. I am proud that Denmark is helping to secure a world without chemical weapons, because we have previously seen the consequences of the use of chemical weapons, for example in Iraq in 1991, when Saddam Hussein used them against the Kurds, and in 2013 in the Syrian Civil War. That is why we see it as our task and our duty to help the Libyan Government remove the remains of the chemical weapons. We must do so before Islamist groups begin to take control of them, and this is a very good time to do so now that the situation is that the Libyan Government has got a little out of hand in these areas. I would like to commend the government and the defence of the direction we have been given, where a great deal of effort has been made on this task. You're well prepared, and I feel confident that you're going to do the job in a really, really good way. So good luck with the mission and good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102353	Thank you. Here you go to the Secretary of Defense, acting Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102404	I would like to thank all the parties for their broad support for the motion for a resolution. I think that's important to our soldiers. There are several good reasons why Denmark should contribute substantially to the transportation of the remains of Libya's chemical weapons stockpiles. Everyone knows how terrible chemical weapons can have. It is therefore primarily a question of preventing the chemical material from falling into the wrong hands. The security situation in Libya remains very unstable. The Islamic State and other terrorist groups have exploited the chaotic situation in the country to strengthen their presence, and there are armed struggles in several parts of the country. A number of countries with a great deal of insight into the security situation in Libya also attach great importance to the rapid release of chemical materials from Libya. On the basis of the dialogue established by the international community with the recently appointed government of unity, there is now an open window for the chemicals to be removed from Libya. It is also something that the Libyans themselves have asked for. The Libyan government of unity also wants to get the chemical materials out of the country. And by helping to remove the materials, Denmark and the international community are also helping the UN-supported Libyan unity government at a time when it needs all the support it can get. This is not an easy task. As has been said, the situation in Libya is unstable. There are many actors involved and many things need to be put in place in order to carry out the task. However, it is a task, as several of the parties have mentioned today, with which Denmark has had previous experience. In 2013 and 2014, as you know, we had the leadership of a similar maritime operation in which Denmark assisted the UN and the OPCW with the removal of chemical substances from Syria. This is also one of the reasons why it is Denmark to which the OPCW has addressed a request to take leadership for the maritime part of the operation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and, above all, the defence have done a great deal of work over the summer to prepare the task and have been in contact with a number of international partners and the UN. Based on the experience gained from Syria's efforts, a contribution has been made with elements from the Defence, Emergency Agency and SKAT as well as a government contribution from Finland, which also contributed to the operation of removing the chemical weapons then in the Syrian operation. Let me conclude by saying that, in order to be ready for the task, the Danish contribution already sails as planned from Denmark today, but of course the contribution will not be able to begin the task solution itself until the Danish Parliament has finally decided on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102723	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160817102746	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday 19 August 2016, at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
