ParlaMint-DK_20160120130016	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 105 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing, Mai Mercado, who has been on leave, I have been informed that she will be able to meet again today in the Chamber. Anders Johansson's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing have then ceased.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120130110	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 21 January 2016. Perhaps I should also say at the outset that we have two hours for this urgent question. I should also like to remind Members that perhaps some of the brief remarks should be left to the Minister too, so that we are not suddenly standing here and have no further comments available. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. I don't see he's here. He's coming running now. Please be present when a meeting is opened in the Parliamentary Chamber, Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120130202	I'm sorry I wasn't here when we started. It was a mistake. The reason why we have called for urgent questions from the Danish People's Party is, of course, that we see that the municipalities are experiencing increasing pressure in relation to the many migrants and refugees who come to Denmark and who put pressure on our welfare societies and, as such, our culture. We know that this means that there must be some financial priorities in the municipalities, which everything else is equal to the money can only be used once and that the money will then go to something else, and we risk that there will not be enough resources to take care of some of the most vulnerable in our welfare societies. So that is the reason for the urgent question. Hopefully we can find a solution to how we can relieve the municipalities and thereby relieve Denmark as a whole. Therefore, on behalf of the Conservatives, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, I shall present the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to present before 1 March a concrete basis for decision on the establishment of state refugee villages to relieve the municipalities. The decision-making basis shall include an assessment of the economic and integration implications thereof. • F 16).
ParlaMint-DK_20160120130315	Thank you. I have to say that it is usually during the debate that a proposal for adoption is presented. I'll let it pass this time, and I'd rather not make any more mistakes, sir. Martin Henriksen Then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing for Response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120130341	First of all, I would like to stress that the government is very aware that the number of refugees is a major challenge for a great many Danish municipalities right now. The government has therefore implemented a large number of initiatives to curb the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark, and thus the number of refugees who will move to the municipalities. In 2015, we have experienced an historically large influx of refugees and migrants into Europe, and the pressure on the external borders remains significant. It also affects Denmark, of course. In November 2015 alone, Denmark received more than 5,000 asylum seekers. Since November, the number of asylum seekers has decreased and in December Denmark received approx. 2,700 asylum seekers. Total registered Denmark approx. 21,300 asylum seekers in 2015. The provisional figures for 2016 suggest that the number of asylum seekers for Denmark remains decreasing but remains at an exceptionally high level. Having said that, however, I think that most people know my position as well. I believe that the current influx, even though we have recently seen a fall in the number of asylum seekers, is too great. We all have a responsibility to ensure that our country is linked. Denmark is a small country and there are limits to how many foreigners we can accept. Denmark must be linked economically as well as socially and culturally. That is why, since its accession, the government has initiated a wide range of restrictions in the area of foreigners, including in particular the area of asylum and refugees. The Left has long believed that conditions in the area of asylum and aliens mean something to how attractive it is to apply to Denmark. Today, most people seem to agree with the government that living conditions actually mean something to the influx. Among other things: Therefore, the government as one of the first in the summer of 2015 has introduced a new and lower integration benefit. In addition, within a relatively short period of time at the end of 2015, the Danish Parliament has adopted two legislative proposals on amendments to the Asylum Act, which include: provide the authorities with a number of new tools to strengthen the ability to deal with the large number of refugees and migrants who enter and stay in Denmark. I welcome the support that has been given to implementing the legislative proposals. I am, because it is absolutely necessary to curb the influx of refugees and migrants into Denmark. This is a major challenge for Denmark, and it is a challenge that the government takes very seriously. Most recently, with the introduction of the L 87 bill, the government has taken the initiative to further tighten up, all of which aims to limit the number of asylum seekers for the sake of integration. The Government proposes to postpone access to family reunification to foreigners with temporary protection so that the current period of 1 year is extended to 3 years. We also propose that the fees for family reunification be reinstated and that the requirements for permanent residence permits be tightened up, among other things. so that greater demands are made on Danish knowledge and employment and that the particularly lenient access to permanent residence permits for refugees is abolished. During the asylum phase, the government proposes to reduce the benefits to asylum seekers and to abolish access to housing outside asylum centres. In addition, significant importance must be attached to decisions on the withdrawal of residence permits if refugees are travelling on holiday in their country of origin when they have indicated that they are at risk of persecution and have been granted residence permits on that basis. Finally, the government proposes to change the criteria for the selection of quota refugees, so that attention should again be paid to the possibility of integrating them into Denmark. In other words, a great many initiatives have been taken to reduce the number of asylum seekers and, therefore, the number of refugees who pass to the municipalities. However, as I also said at the outset, the government is very aware that the current number of refugees moving to integration in the municipalities is a very important task. I know that, in the current situation, this is not an easy task because the municipalities are so full of their hands. In 2016, the Foreigners' Board expects 17,000 people to be granted asylum and to be placed around the municipalities. In addition, a large number of family members must also be integrated. I am very aware of the increasing pressure on the municipalities, not least to find housing for the many new refugees. This applies both to temporary housing, but it also applies, of course, to permanent housing. In order to ease the pressure on the municipalities, we have made it possible for the municipalities to accommodate more refugees in the same room in temporary residences. The government is in continuous dialogue with the municipalities on the housing situation, and I am also responsive if the municipalities have good proposals on how the government can help the municipalities further in relation to the major challenge of the housing situation. In general, I look forward to the discussions on the municipal framework conditions for the reception and integration of refugees. In any case, this is something we will be discussing in the dialogue we will have between the government and the National Association of Municipalities, which we have set up. I look forward to that dialogue, just as I look forward to discussions with the social partners, because we need to find solutions together now. And we have to be honest and say that the integration efforts so far have not produced enough results. For example: is everything, far too few get to work. As far as the municipal economy is concerned, I should like to begin by pointing out that the total economy of the municipalities is within the competence of the Minister of Finance. So, of course, I would like to refer to the Minister for Finance for further consideration. Having said that, I would like to stress that the direct costs incurred by the municipalities include: Integration benefit, Danish education and other directly derived tasks are generally covered by reimbursement, grants and other things. In addition, the municipalities receive, inter alia: a basic grant per year; refugees to cover social expenditure and general expenditure on integration. However, there are also municipal expenditures which are not covered by reimbursement, such as: the costs of reception classes, day-offer and administration. This expenditure will be incurred in 2016 within the framework agreed by the Government with the National Association of Municipalities in the 2016 Economic Agreement, which was concluded on the basis that the municipalities should receive an exceptionally large number of refugees. That is why we also agreed that municipalities would receive an extraordinary integration grant of a total of 325 million. kr. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. This is precisely what we did with reference to the exceptionally large number of refugees that the municipalities will receive here in 2016. So on the question of the establishment of state refugee villages; it has also been raised as part of the solution to the challenge of the municipalities. From the government's point of view, the position on the issue has been clear. Considerations should be given to the establishment of refugee villages on a well-worked basis. That is why, of course, we are also prepared to see whether it is one possibility among several who can help the municipalities. In conclusion, however, I would like to stress once again that the best way to help the municipalities start work is to reduce the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark. That is why the government has also implemented a large number of initiatives to make it less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131306	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131316	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the other parties for their support for holding this urgent request for refugee pressure on Denmark and, therefore, for the increasing pressure, including the increasing economic pressure, on the municipalities. The migrant crisis and the influx of asylum are a huge financial burden and have the potential to develop into a disaster for the Danish economy. The Danish People's Party wants to relieve the municipalities by ensuring that fewer refugees and migrants enter the municipalities. We want a change in Danish asylum policy and we want to limit non-western immigration to Denmark. And here the influx of asylum for the moment is the absolutely greatest challenge, and it is quite simply because the number is as great as it is. Because it helps to put our culture and our economy, including the municipal economy, under enormous pressure. It is felt by many in the country's municipalities; it is felt by mayors, it is felt by municipal councillors, but it certainly also marks the Danes who risk being skipped into the home queue, or the girls and women who experience being molested by male asylum seekers. These phenomena are not new, but the scale has increased, and that is new. It makes everything else even more difficult for the parties and opinion-formers to continue ignoring the problems and to continue to come up with half solutions which we have already tried and which we therefore know do not work. We need to think of something new. The influx also leads to a deterioration in our welfare societies, a deterioration in our efforts towards the most vulnerable citizens, because money can only be used once. It is true that now that the funds are increasingly being used to finance the integration and reception of the many migrants and refugees in the municipalities, they are going from something else. In the end, they come from the same box. The previous government failed to reverse developments and adopted a series of easing of asylum and immigration policy. The present government and its majority have tried and are trying to reverse developments with a number of rigours, but we must also be honest and say that this is not enough. There is more to be done, and that is why we are debating this question. Therefore, the Danish People's Party wants to go further and work on establishing state refugee villages, so that those who are in Denmark are placed in these units until they can be repatriated or until the pressure on the municipalities has diminished. On the one hand, the Danish People's Party wants and I understand that the Social Democrats and Conservatives agree that the government must work to establish refugee centres or run parts of existing refugee camps in the neighbourhood or elsewhere for that matter in order to be able to send the refugees who find their way to Denmark to these refugee camps, where they will then receive help. It is gratifying that there seems to have been such a marked move in Danish asylum policy, and bearing in mind that in the past the Left, too, expressed a positive opinion on this model, there is a possibility, if implemented, of a historic change of course in the area of asylum. But we have to be realistic when we may not be able to do that part today, but less can do it as well. Today, therefore, we focus on the possibility of establishing state refugee villages in Denmark to relieve the municipalities and as a tool to limit the influx. The Danish People's Party wants to work constructively to reform Danish asylum policy, because it is clearly in Denmark's interest that we effectively stop and reverse current developments, which are in many ways highly unsustainable. Municipalities cannot continue to accept refugees and migrants, and Denmark must find new ways of helping refugees. If we change Danish asylum policy in the short and long term, we will ultimately be able to help many more people, and they are the most vulnerable. In fact, I sincerely believe that. At the same time, we can take better care of Denmark. All parties should be brought together to that end. We have noted from the Danish People's Party that several parties have moved forward, and that is why we can hopefully take the first small steps towards a new asylum policy in Denmark today. At least that's what we're hoping for from here. Then we'll see how far we get with it. And then the President has reminded me that I have read proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131722	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131727	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur quite simply: does the rapporteur believe that the refugees living in refugee villages, as the rapporteur wants, are becoming better or worse in Danish by living there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131743	Well, our starting point is that these people shouldn't be integrated into Danish society. Then I know that there are different views of it among the parties in the Folketing. But it is no secret that we look at it this way, that when we have not succeeded in integrating the people who have come to Denmark, how on earth will we succeed in integrating the many people who are coming to Denmark now, when everything else is equal? That is why I think we need a new course on the part of the Danish Parliament, and it is gratifying that it seems that some people have moved towards seeing the purpose of government units. We also hope that at a time when several parties in the Folketing realise that it is not okay to deceive the Danes that we have a realistic opportunity to ensure that these people are properly and sensibly integrated. After all, we are simply too different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131828	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131831	I fully acknowledge the policy of the Danish People's Party and I take the rapporteur's answer as an expression of a 'no'. Living in refugee villages makes Danish worse, but that is not the point of the rapporteur. I would like to ask the following question: does the rapporteur accept that, if refugees after a refugee village are to continue to be knitted together in a municipality, the refugees are worse off in Danish than they would otherwise have been?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131859	What lies in this is that the government will be obliged to provide a basis for decision, in other words a proposal on how to establish refugee villages in Denmark. And then there will be parties in here who believe that they should be integrated when they are in the refugee villages in question, and there will be the Danish People's Party that has the view that they should not be integrated. Then we'll see where the ends can meet. In other words, if it were to be assumed that there would be refugee villages, and it was assumed that they would then receive Danish education, then Danish education would essentially correspond to the Danish education they are receiving today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131928	Then it's mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. I should like to say this because I can see here that the brief remarks are beginning to appear, that one should remember one's time for the Minister. It is just for information if one otherwise wants a time for the Minister and does not use up his speaking time now. Here you go, sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120131945	Thank you. Now the Danish People's Party has raised this question to clarify what the economic consequences are for the municipalities. I think that with this proposal on refugee villages, the government is thus freed from this issue. I would just like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that. If the government then has to answer the second question which is now being asked about the consequences of creating refugee villages, then I think that the authors of this proposal must make some suggestions as to what is envisaged with a village. Well, a village can have 200 inhabitants or 2,000 inhabitants or 3,000 inhabitants or 4,000 inhabitants. What's the scale? For it is clear that if a municipality now has a refugee village with 4 000 inhabitants, then the question is: do they have to go to the local school, or do they have to be driven out of there in a lot of different schools? What if the refugees want to move because they get a job and have to move out, is it to the municipality where they are located in their refugee village, or are they free to move around?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132047	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132047-2	The size of refugee villages and the number of people living in a refugee village depend on how many are coming. In relation to school facilities, it could be imagined that, if adopted, they will be located in a place where the municipality wishes to provide some premises. There's gonna be a municipality, and then you can make a deal with the municipality. There may be private actors, who may also be involved in the organisation of educational provision in the refugee village. If it is for the Danish People's Party, then the teaching should serve the purpose of preparing them to return to their homeland so that they can help rebuild their homeland. If, for example, they do: If there are adults who want to get a course on how to start a business when you return to your home country, or otherwise to be trained, then we think that these are some of the things that should be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132137	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132139	Now I do not think the rapporteur is answering my question. If the government is to give an answer with regard to the proposal that you are making, then it must be known whether there are going to be 4 000 people or 200 people living in a refugee village. Otherwise, you don't know what you'll get, because if it's 200, then it's basically the distribution we have of refugees today in the municipalities, and then there's really no difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132202	Thank you. And we do not address the Members directly. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132205	I actually tried to answer the question precisely, but I cannot exactly answer how many people are going to live in a refugee village, because that depends on how many people are going to Denmark. Then it also depends on what is practically possible. We would like refugee villages to be established in line with existing asylum centres. Then there is the matter of how big they can then be, which will also depend on how many then have to be. So it basically depends on what is practically possible and how many people are coming to Denmark. It cannot be more concrete than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132235	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132239	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur how much the re-priority contribution will cost the municipalities in the coming years. I can answer that is a rhetorical question: 15 billion. kr. I would also like to ask how much tax relief should be given to the richest heirs, even over the next few years; it was also rhetorical. That's 2 billion. kr. Already next year, 0.5 billion will be given. kr. in favour of reducing registration fees for the most expensive cars. All this supports DF. I therefore believe, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's reaction, that some of the weakest groups in this society are playing out against each other, while at the same time signing up to a policy that is enormously antisocial and goes beyond the municipalities to a much greater extent over the next few years than the bill that comes in relation to refugees will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132325	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132326	The questioner was kind enough to answer the questions himself. So that way you can always run a dialogue with yourself. It's okay. Well, now it's not an urgent question about the Finance Act. But now, in the Finance Act, we had resources set aside, for example, for better care for the elderly, for better health care, something which I believe to be of great benefit to the most vulnerable groups in Danish society. And these are things that have come because we have raised the question of them by the Danish People's Party. In view of the debate we are having here today, I think it is important to bear in mind that it will be some of the most vulnerable citizens in this society, those who do not have the resources to shout the loudest, who will pay the price for the very massive influx of asylum that is happening here. If you want what the Danish People's Party wants and what I believe the Socialist People's Party also wants, namely a welfare society in which you are able to take care of those who cannot take care of themselves and who need a helping hand from the public, then you have to work to limit the influx of asylum. And we look forward to the SF contributing to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132424	When I ask that question, it is precisely because what we are discussing today is the economy and the municipalities, and DF is trying to remove the focus from removing 15 billion. kr. This has been signed by the municipalities. A policy has been signed that provides tax relief in the billions class, and all this affects the municipalities in the next few years to a much, much greater extent. And who's gonna get hurt? It affects the core welfare, the children suffer from fewer educators, the elderly care and so on, and therefore it makes no sense that DF will not take it on. For SF wants core welfare, which is why we do not support a government that cuts the core welfare in the municipalities, as DF does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132505	As far as I remember, there was minus growth for a certain period under the previous government, and there is not at present. And in relation to the view that the more people who come to Denmark, the more people who are entitled to public support in Denmark, the more people the municipalities need to spend resources to find a place for, the more people who have to have access to our health care, there is just to say that that money can only be spent once. Then it is the case that there are some others who could have come to a little faster, that is to say Danish citizens whose families have helped build this country for generations it means something to the Danish People's Party who are at risk of having to wait a little longer. They risk, of course, that what they might otherwise get from the public sector will be a little lower, because there are some parties that do not want to do what it takes to limit the flow. Asylum policy is also a question of Danish fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132554	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132556	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. And thank you also for putting a very good urgent question to the Danish People's Party, because it is a very central issue: what are the consequences for the municipalities' economy of the large number of refugees we have already accepted and will receive at least the next year's time or two? This is a very central issue. Why, then, is the rapporteur not trying to answer that? Instead, the rapporteur is talking about something that does not help the municipalities at all here or now or within the next year. My question to the Danish People's Party is: How will the Danish People's Party prevent the increase in the number of refugees and the costs they incur from affecting the welfare of the municipalities? There is a clear warning from KL and from a large number of municipalities that if no more money is added • KL talks about approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. I thought it was an important task for the Danish People's Party to ensure the welfare of the municipalities. So what is the Danish People's Party's own answer to the excellent question they have asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132707	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132708	That is what I have tried to answer in all modesty. And frankly, I cannot understand how it can be that there are parties in here, including the Enhedslisten, which are still running around in the delusion that they simply believe that there is no link between what we can afford in relation to our welfare benefits to Danish citizens and how many people then come from outside and gain access to the same welfare benefits. There's a clear connection. So if you want to ensure Danish welfare and then the first step must be to make sure that you have the economy to do so you must also look at how many people come to Denmark from outside and how much they have access to in relation to Danish welfare services. I mean, the two things are undoubtedly connected, and now I can hardly ask a question, but it might be interesting to hear if Enhedslisten does not recognise that there is a connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132754	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132755	We very much do. That is why we have just made a proposal here on Saturday which I think the rapporteur has been familiar with and which is that we recognise the KL's calculation. It is about 2.5 billion. kr. with these little 40,000 people we are talking about that will come about within the next year or one and a half, and we will finance that by postponing the corporate tax reductions. After all, it is an exercise that Dansk Folkeparti has previously been out to talk about, so that you might be able to do so when there were some other things you wanted to finance. But my question to Dansk Folkeparti is: Recognizes Dansk Folkeparti KL's assessment that this will cost 2.5 billion in the short term. kr.? And how will the Danish People's Party finance it? And if you do not answer that, you are an accessory to the fact that it is going to affect the welfare of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132846	The parties responsible for ensuring that our welfare is not as good as it should be are therefore included in the Enhedslisten. Because in Enhedslisten you've been very naive on this question. For many years you have had that view and, as far as I know, you still have it away that Denmark can just accept and accept. And the reason why we are in the situation we are in now is that there are parties that have had that view. There has been a majority in the Folketing in which some have thought that an effort should be made to limit the flow, but one was not prepared to do what would really move anything. That is why I very much believe that the parties that are now saying that we should just send more money to the municipalities are guilty of two oversights. Firstly, the money comes ultimately from the same box, and secondly, a long time ago we should have said no and expressed the will to limit the influx of asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132936	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120132940	Thank you very much. In his speech, the rapporteur once again took the opportunity to put forward the view that it is cheaper to fund refugees in camps in the neighbourhood than it is to get them here to Denmark. There is, of course, no money at all for the camps, so if you advocate that point of view, you must come up with the money first and enough for people to want to stay there as well. However, we had just received a visit from the UNHCR, and they pointed out that people in camps are usually there for 20 years, and in the end it will be more expensive to have people in camps than to have them here in Denmark, have them in an asylum centre for a year and then integrate them into the labour market and earn their own money. Is that an opinion that the rapporteur considers relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133029	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133030	I certainly think it is appropriate to listen to what the UNHCR has to say. But I also think it is clear in all silence that the Danish People's Party and the UNHCR have different views on a number of issues. After all, the UNHCR has the view that Denmark can easily accept a lot of refugees and that we must welcome even more refugees, and basically they think that we are on a totally wrong course in Denmark, because we have financial surpluses to accept a lot of refugees in Denmark. After all, the Danish People's Party and UNHCR see things a little differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133103	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133105	But that is not what the UNHCR points out, in other words, that we should take more refugees. The UNHCR draws attention to the fact that a refugee usually spends 20 years in a refugee camp, providing a refugee for 20 years with everything: food, clothing, medical care, education, and that it is considerably more expensive than receiving a refugee in a country where the refugee can be integrated, so that the refugee becomes part of that country and will pay tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133140	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133141	I believe that these are existing refugee camps, for example. Jordan, Turkey or anywhere else. What we are talking about here in relation to this proposal for adoption and the discussion we have is establishing state refugee villages in Denmark. So I think that different things are based on what the debate is actually about. In addition, it must be said that everything else equally has great economic consequences to welcome a lot of refugees in Denmark, and it can also be pointed out in all silence that many of the refugees who come to Denmark are moving out of the asylum centres, as it is today, and coming out and having the opportunity to enter the labour market. You have the opportunity to take a job. They have the opportunity to contribute to society, but they do not do so to a great extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133224	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133226	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that we should like to help a few more people in the neighbourhood and a few fewer people in Denmark, so to speak. But I understand that when you talk about these refugee villages, it is because you hope to be able to send people back again at some point. Isn't that a very naive hope or wish or dream, or what to call it? 'Cause I'm guessing that's going to be taken to the record, but now I'm guessing all those who come in, even in refugee villages, end up staying in Denmark forever. So are we not just making the challenge and the cost even greater by placing people in refugee villages? Well, that, as in Mr. Martin Henriksen's optics is the best of all worlds, ending up being Mr. Martin Henriksen's nightmare comes true.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133329	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133330	I think the naive thing in this context is to believe that we can integrate all these people. That's what's naive. For the course desired by a majority of the parties of the Folketing is, of course, the one we know. We're doing it today. We've been doing this for years. We have done so in the 1980s and 1990s, when we did not even have such a clear integration policy and where we did not have the major integration measures for the people who came to Denmark. It didn't work. Then at the end of the 1990s, as I remember, integration policies began to be drawn up, integration programmes implemented, etc. That's what they did through the '00s, and it didn't work either. So we have tried the course that is being argued for more, and we know that it does not work. So it's kind of naive to think that we can integrate these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133423	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133424	It's gonna be a bit of a parallel discussion, because now, sir... Martin Henriksen through me discuss with some others. For Mr. Martin Henriksen and I agree that we need fewer asylum seekers in Denmark and more, we help in the neighbourhood. That is our common political view. If you then have that view, then my question is: does it not end with the large majority, as Mr. Martin Henriksen just mentioned in his first answer, when a few years have passed, says "Contrary to what the Danish People's Party wants these people to stay in Denmark anyway?" Then we have kept them in asylum villages and, with this, made the costs forward even higher, because the employment rate is getting lower, because the training rate is getting lower and because integration is coming slower. At least that's what I'm afraid of with this proposal for these refugee villages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133522	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133522-2	Depends on how to set them up. This is then a political discussion that we still have to do away with. The point of view of the Danish People's Party is that they should stay there until they can be sent home. Then we are fully aware of the fact that there are other parties in here, the Social Democrats, the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and others who believe that they should go out and integrate. They're going to the municipalities at some point. If one then chooses to set it up in such a way that, as it were, there will be a postponement in relation to when they will enter the municipalities, then I do not think it can be said that the establishment of state refugee villages will be an obstacle to integration if one chooses to integrate them. Because we have had experience in the past with state refugee villages. This was in relation to Bosnians in the 1990s, and it cannot be said that they are so on crucial parameters that they are less integrated than others who have more quickly entered the municipalities. You can't say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133638	Thank you. The current government came to power on a very simple promise: they would deliver an immediate slowdown in the number of asylum seekers to Denmark. It sounded enticingly simple. The challenge of refugee flows had to be solved with an integration benefit and a few ads in Lebanese newspapers. Should we not just say that the simple solutions that the government put forward to the people were not in the real world? In the real world, it is obvious that the municipalities are under massive pressure. The government's negative growth has not made it easier for municipalities to accept an historic number of refugees. This year alone it is estimated that more than 35,000 refugees and family members are going to live in the municipalities. This corresponds to an entire city the size of Køge or Viborg, and the municipalities have calculated that there are 5,000 new homes, 300 receive classes and 1,200 educators • to mention just three examples. I believe that everyone can see that it risks leading to savings in the close welfare of the Danes, in our schools and in our care for the elderly. That is why we have been proposing for a long time that state villages be set up to relieve local authorities. This is necessary in order to ensure our welfare and is necessary in order to be able to take proper and decent care of the people who come to our country as refugees. The government has so far rejected this, but now there is much evidence that they have nevertheless become convinced that something needs to be done. Just last week, Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen swept away all worries like wailing. We have proposed that in refugee villages we should be able to go to school, that refugees should be able to work in the surrounding society and, at the very least, live an active life so that they are ready to take part in society when they enter the municipalities, or are better equipped to return home if the homeland becomes safe. We do not have a fixed and finished model of how the villages should look or be designed. It must be organized in cooperation with the municipalities, but the first step is for the government to take on the task, and we will continue to press for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133858	Then there are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133903	Thank you. I have noticed that the Socialists are very enthusiastic about this refugee village proposal and they have talked a lot about how well it was in the 1990s. Now I am not such a detailed expert in the social democratic foreign discussions in the 1990s and in the lessons learned from it, but may Mr. Dan Jørgensen then, now that is such a good idea, tell how long the Bosnians averaged in the refugee villages?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120133935	Several things are wrong in the way the rapporteur presents this issue. First of all, we are not enthusiastic about anything. On the contrary, we are very aware that this is an incredibly difficult task which needs to be dealt with as effectively and objectively as possible. Nor do I, as the rapporteur does not, have detailed knowledge of the discussions that took place in my own party; indeed not in the rapporteur, because it did not exist then, but other parties. Nor do I know the average times that the rapporteur is asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134008	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134010	This is actually a little interesting, especially because one could imagine that it was important how long people should stay in these refugee villages, i.e. an impact on how things are going to go to them. I think it is a little remarkable that we are constantly talking about such a success in the 1990s when we do not know how long people were there. This must be one of the basic conditions for saying that we can take it up again. But maybe I can update my question instead. How long do the Socialists expect refugees to sit in those cities, and what will happen afterwards? Do you think, as the Danish People's Party, that people will return home, or do you think that there is an integration effort that will take place afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134057	The rapporteur is, of course, very welcome to be as polemical as the rapporteur wishes to be, but it is of course very polemical when the rapporteur says that, in order to be able to say anything about how it will work today, we should know how long the timeframe was then. But that is not the case, because the situation is very different today. What we are pointing out is that when, for example, we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point. The Danish Red Cross is hardly an organization that is opposed to integration functioning. It is out to say that we have to look at some of the experiences we had in the 90s, so of course we support it. I find it difficult to say exactly how long such a period will have to be, because it will depend on how many there will be; it will depend on how much pressure the municipalities are in relation to finding these dwellings; it will again depend on why some economic conditions the municipalities have quite generally, where the party of the questioner has helped to create a financial law that certainly does not make it easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134159	I am really trying to be fair from up here, but we still have to keep to time, so I have to look at who has spoken and also how many comments are actually entitled. Now it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134215	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party for its involvement in the fact that I had almost forced the government to make a decision for refugee villages. Although we look a little differently at what refugee villages are and can be used for, it is, of course, a step along the way that we are now adopting this proposal for adoption today. I think that is very positive. Thank you, too, for at least rhetorically moving on the issue of foreign policy and also recognising that integration, as it has been for the past 20 to 30 years, has failed. That is very clearly stated. Looking forward to the question: when integration has failed over the last 20-30 years, when perhaps 6,000 refugees have been brought together in the family every year, if we look at the whole period, what is the real reason why we believe that we can integrate 50,000 people who come in one year or two? In other words, what is the Columbus egg that the Social Democratic Party has found and which we have not been able to see, which makes it possible, when ten times as many people have not been able to integrate, to achieve successful integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134318	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134319	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says I had almost forced the government. There, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl now probably had been more direct and said imposed on the government, for that is indeed what has happened and also thanks for the good cooperation in this regard. It is clear that both of our parties are concerned that we are being relieved of the municipalities. Where there is disagreement and where consensus stops is, of course, in relation to whether we should work to integrate these people or not. We openly acknowledge that changing governments have failed in that task in the past, but we simply refuse to give up and intercept people in camps, which sometimes almost get the impression that the Danish People's Party wants. It is important for their own well-being and their daily lives to have something to stand up to, but it is certainly important for our economy too, because the fact that they get a job, pay taxes and contribute is, of course, far better than that they are on transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134420	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134421	I understand, of course. It is much better that people are in work and contribute. One can just say that when we look at the group of non-western immigrants in Denmark, it is less than half of them who, even after 20-30 years, are at work. And, unfortunately, in the crime statistics, there is a clear over-representation. It is on the basis of the fact that far, far fewer people have come to Denmark over the decades than they have in these years. So what I'm just asking, sir. Dan Jørgensen about is what this instrument is for successful integration, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen has seen that it can now succeed, which has not succeeded so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134501	Here you go, sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134502	I believe that many instruments are needed and that a much more comprehensive integration policy is needed in Denmark. That is also why we have called on the government to call for negotiations on it. We imagine that it must be much, much easier to get refugees into work, that we must engage in a much closer dialogue with business and that we must shake the bag in relation to the efforts being made to make people ready for work. What is at least certain is that the solution to the problem of not being enough in employment is certainly not to say as the Danish People's Party does, namely that no one in order to isolate people, denying them employment, will only make the problems even bigger in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134540	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134545	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur for that clarification. I would really like to continue where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl escaped. There seems to be agreement between the Danish People's Party and the Socialists about using the word refugee village, but it is a little my experience that agreement stops there. This is like saying that you are talking about a car, and one side thinks it's a Mercedes, and the other side thinks it's a smart car. Then I'll have to ask about the Social Democrats' experience of this. Who's gonna build these villages? Where are those villages going to lie? Who's gonna drive them? Should there be schools? Who's running the schools? Are there supposed to be hospitals, doctor's houses? Who's gonna drive them? Do you have to be able to work? Is there going to be fences around? Should you be able to walk in and out? Is it a camp or a village? I understand that the rapporteur does not remember all these issues. It was just to give some inspiration on how the Socialists imagine that such a village looks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134646	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134647	I don't have any trouble remembering sir. Mr Jakob-Ellemann-Jensen's question. When I can't answer them, it's not because of my bad memory. Then it's because the government hasn't been an adult. If, several months ago, when we pointed out this need, the government had taken its task seriously and had begun to provide a basis for decision-making, we could have dealt with the matter in substance now, we could have been dealing with a legislative proposal instead of having to force the government, through an urgent request, simply to provide the most basic data, which of course is necessary in order to respond to the otherwise excellent questions which Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen emphasizes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134723	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134724	In other words, you have not really thought about what you really want or what you imagine. Well, I think this is a very, very serious situation. So should I take this as an expression of the fact that it is just such a bit of teasing on the part of the rapporteur against the government, or do you have any substance whatsoever in your idea of what a refugee village is, just a little bit? What does Mr. Dan Jørgensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134756	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134757	I have to say that it sounds a little hollow when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen is trying to give the impression that this should be about teasing. Well, that's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, who in today's newspapers shows that it was indeed their idea first, and no, it was my idea, and no, you're stupid, and no, you're stupid. Listen: We have been highlighting this need for months, but instead of having very bastant attitudes and ultimate demands about exactly how big these villages are going to be; exactly how it's going to be with schools and opportunities to work with the municipalities instead of closing the debate there, we have said to the government: "Come on along with us." You're the one with the power of government. If you don't want it anymore, hand it over to us. We'd like it. We will make such a proposal. It is therefore necessary to have a basis for decision, so that we know something about what the economy is and so that we can negotiate with the municipalities to do it properly. And that is what we are now forcing you to present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134851	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134854	Thank you. Together with Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF, we have made a proposal for adoption which reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that the integration task is best done in the municipalities. Local authorities' demands for increased funding in the light of more refugees must be met. The government should quickly ensure a common plan with the municipalities, which provides security for funding. Successful integration requires interaction with communities, schools, educational establishments and jobs. Therefore, the refugees must be provided with housing locally. - - - - - - - - - - - - Will the rapporteur explain which parts of the proposal for adoption the Socialists disagree with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134931	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120134932	I do not think I disagree with any of the points made in the proposal for adoption. I disagree with some of the things that are not there. I disagree with what is missing. Perhaps it was a little fuzzy: I think there is something missing for us to be able to support it, namely refugee villages, which, as far as we can see, will be the only means of helping the municipalities here and now. All the other points raised by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen are true. There is an enormous need also to look at the economy out there, and it has to be said that we have a government that obviously does not care. The Minister for Finance calls it groaning when the municipalities quite fairly, we think, point out that they face some serious challenges. However, where we believe that there is therefore a need for additional things than what your proposal for adoption says, is simply in relation to the immediate situation here and now, where we believe that the refugee villages that we have proposed may be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135025	Thank you. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And to the rapporteur: direct indictment is not used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135029	Thank you to the rapporteur for that. I assume that this also means that the rapporteur and his party believe that the task of integration is best carried out in the municipalities. Does the rapporteur therefore agree that the integration task will be postponed or extended by the establishment of refugee villages or camps, which is what it will become?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135052	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135053	No, you can't put it that way for two reasons. First of all, it can be said that it does not work very well as it is now, because some municipalities are so pressured that they simply do not have the housing they need. This means that the neighbourhoods of refugees in places where it is very expensive and not very cost-effective, four-star hotels have been examples of. Elsewhere there are refugees who must suffer because they cannot get decent housing, but must live in abandoned hostels and everything else. And that is certainly not good for integration. In addition, we must of course think about setting up these refugee villages. This should not be the model proposed by the Danish People's Party. On the contrary, it must be a model in which we ensure that the integration effort is not harmed, but that it is carried out in harmony with the surrounding society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135136	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135137	We believe that it is a very good question that the Danish People's Party has asked, namely how we ensure that the municipalities are able to afford the integration effort and the refugees who come out in the municipalities. I think that when the Social Democratic Party contributes to this proposal on refugee villages, the government is actually able to escape that issue and the Social Democratic Party is also able to escape that issue. Because even though it is the state that buys some pavilions and puts them up in a field and lets people move in, it probably costs the same as if the municipalities had to do the same. I understand that the rapporteur recognises KL's calculation that if the amount of people corresponds to an average Danish municipality, that is also the cost. And then you can say that either the state has to pay for it in state refugee villages, or you have to give money to the municipalities. That is why the rapporteur still has to reply to the question and the government has to respond to the question of where the money will be taken. We have proposed to postpone the corporate tax reductions. But just placing the bill with the government doesn't change the fact that the bill has to be paid. So it can therefore be said that the funding is essential, whether it is the municipalities or the government that have to do the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135246	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135246-2	Mr. Jesper Kiel is quite right in saying that this refugee village thing only addresses part of the problem. Clearly, the Finance Act that has been adopted is not something we have supported. We think that the tax concessions that were given there are now, for example, that we are now going to have to deal with them. Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. It is clear that it would give more freedom in the municipalities. Of course, the minus growth that is now is not our cup of tea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135325	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Kiel for his second brief remark. Here you go. Afterwards, it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. And I must say that this is the last brief remark to be made to the rapporteur, and then 12 of the 21 short remarks that we expect to be able to make within the two hours have been used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135350	After all, the rapporteur took note of what was not included in our proposal for adoption, namely the word refugee villages. And then I just want to say that there is nothing [in your proposal] about how to solve the problem for the municipalities. The municipalities have it solves some refugee villages that can be ready in a year's time or when they will be ready at all, of course not. The issue of how we solve the problems here and now is not, of course, part of your proposal for adoption. So what is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135421	Thank you. And you still don't use away direct indictment. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135422	Mr. Jesper Kiel is absolutely right. There may be a fundamental difference between Mr. Jesper Kiels's party and my own party. Of course, we could have made a proposal for adoption which contained everything we wanted and then did not get it adopted. We would rather make a proposal for adoption together with some parties that give us a majority, so that it becomes a reality, even in the real world. We believe that this is best for the municipalities, and we believe that this is also best for the refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135445	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135447	Thank you to the Social Democrats for being involved in the adoption, which is quite excellent. However, I have some doubts as to what the Socialists really want. The Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, made a speech to her Nordic party colleagues recently, and there she said quite openly, among other things. addressed to the Swedes that an open refugee policy destroys the Nordic welfare agenda, destroying the Nordic welfare communities. Then why on earth do you want to integrate those refugees when they've been in a refugee village? Why do you want to integrate the people who come into a refugee village, and then they have to go to the local community to work, they have to go to school, they have to learn Danish? Then there is no difference in relation to the previous policy of the Social Democrats. The only difference is that they need a detour in the refugee villages for the sake of the municipalities. The end goal is still the same, and thus it is an open refugee policy and thus also an undermining of the Nordic welfare community, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135557	Thank you. You're still not allowed to speak directly. Now I have said it many times during this question within an hour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135604	I am glad that there are also more tanned members of parliament than myself who make such mistakes. It certainly comforts me. Thank you to the rapporteur for referring to a speech by my President, whom I myself have not had the opportunity to hear or read, but that sounds like something she could have said. And I fully agree, we cannot just have open borders here in our country. That is also why we recognise very clearly that the number matters. We must limit the number of foreigners coming to our country, otherwise we will not be able to maintain our welfare state as it is now, and otherwise we will not be able to take care of the people who are coming, so it is also for their sake. But where the chain jumps off, I think, for the Danish People's Party, is when they argue that one should not then try to integrate. Indeed, we must try to integrate those who are then here. It is true that we can agree that it would be good if the number could be reduced, but of course not to zero, as the Danish People's Party wants, because we believe that we should actually help in Denmark and welcome refugees. But what you have to focus on is: what about the people who are here? They should not be passive and on transfers and isolated. On the contrary, they must have a job, both for their own sake and for the sake of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135714	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135716	It is actually very simple: if you do not want open borders and an open refugee policy, you have to have a closed refugee policy. This means that the people you place in a refugee village must of course return when there is security at home. They should not be integrated. So how does it work? On the one hand, Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that we should not have an open refugee policy, we should not do so because it undermines the welfare society, and on the other hand Mr. Dan Jørgensen on the platform and tell us to integrate? It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135752	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135800	I don't know if I can explain it more clearly than I did the first time, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen asked. It is so connected that, of course, the number matters to our ability to maintain our welfare here in the country and to our ability to integrate people who come. But that is not the same as the fact that the people who are here should not also be integrated. It could be said, on the other hand, that it is clear that if you followed the strategy that the Danish People's Party wants you to follow, then the cost of Danish society would be far, far greater. In spite of the fact that there is not enough of the group of foreigners who are now in work in Denmark, there is, after all, a part of those who are in work and they contribute to society and pay taxes and are not an expense. The cost would be present if the Danish People's Party were given power as they have heeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135836	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120135846	Thank you for that, President. I have been given the job today instead of our integration rapporteur, Mr. Marcus Knuth, who is rapidly returning to Denmark. Thank you to the authors for raising this debate. There is no reason to put our finger on the reality we are experiencing in the area of asylum at this time. The reality is that Denmark is fiercely challenged by an influx of people who far exceed what we had previously imagined was possible. Tens of thousands seek refuge from war, and others seek a better life in Denmark than their homeland can offer them. This is particularly felt in the municipalities where you really experience how difficult it is to keep up with. For it costs a lot of money, of course, when Denmark, as the chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, Martin Damm, described it, suddenly experiences what corresponds to an extra municipal wave across the Danish border. That is precisely why the Left has also been pulled into the work clothes from the first day of the government offices. We have always had the approach that the number of people coming to Denmark means something to our ability to integrate these people and to our opportunities in the Danish welfare society in general. Therefore, we must and must make it less attractive to come to Denmark to seek asylum. It has been necessary to tighten up so that we ensure that Denmark is not unduly attractive compared to other countries and that we do not take so many asylum seekers that we cannot keep up. On one side of the Left there are some who want to open the gate wide open and walk in the footsteps of the Swedes, while some on the other hand want to close Denmark airtightly to foreigners. In the Left, we want to strike a balance between these two extremes. We must take our share of responsibility, and we do, but we must not take more than we have the opportunity to deal with. It destroys the opportunity to put all the effort into integrating those we accept and if integration fails, the bill will come later. We must learn from the mistakes we have made for too many years, and precisely integration is an important matter for the Left. It is simply no use having groups of people living in parallel societies because the system at some point gave up. We must set all the sails so that we can be significantly better at getting the refugees who are staying in Denmark into the labour market. It is precisely for this reason that the government has announced that the trialogues will be one of the first to be addressed here in 2016. In the same way, in his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister invited the municipalities to a dialogue on how we jointly undertake the enormous task of integrating as much as possible. Because it is very much the municipalities that have to take responsibility when the refugees are to be integrated and have a life in Denmark. We want a close dialogue with the municipalities to ensure sustainable and cost-effective solutions. Today, the Danish People's Party then proposes that the government present a concrete basis for decision-making on the establishment of state-run refugee villages, and here integration will once again be a starting point. Because it is not always quite clear what is meant by villages when they are mentioned in the public debate. I am, for example. Not quite sure that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats agree on what they imagine, since the Social Democrats are not imagining anything so far, and we need to be aware of whether the refugee villages, which may in future be established as an aid to the municipalities in a time of pressure, lead to ghetto formations. Because that will thwart the process of integration that we are working hard for. That is why the Left also believes that it is sensible for us to act on as enlightened a basis as possible. And that is why the government proposed to provide such an enlightened basis last year, but the parties with which the government negotiated could not agree to this agreement. Today, we are then agreed to provide an enlightened basis, which is why the Left also supports the text of the proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140311	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140314	Thank you for your support for the adoption. Of course, it's getting hot. It's good to have the Left on board. In his opening speech back in October, the Prime Minister said that he was convinced that the number is important for the success of integration. So, the number is important for the success of integration. If we now consider that this is the case for many years, approx. 6,000 for Denmark a year, who has been granted asylum and who has come as a family couple, and we agree that it has not succeeded because it is also stated in the opening speech that the Prime Minister does not believe that integration has been successful so far. I mean, what kind of a Columbus egg has not been told so far, but that comes as a small bomb in the debate here and now? What is this Columbus egg that has been found that makes you believe that you can integrate, let us say 50,000 a year, when you have not been able to integrate 6,000 a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140416	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140418	Thank you. But I do not think that this is a Columbus egg, but it is true that if you continue in the same way as you have done up to now, you will not succeed with a larger number if you have not had it with a smaller one. But what is at the heart of integration is the entry into the labour market. This is the best way to get to know Danes and get to know our society, that is to say to get to work. That is why the government has invited the social partners to discussions in order also to get the social partners to take their share of the responsibility, to carry out their part of this task and to get as many people into the labour market as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140501	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140503	But what's new in that? That has been said for years. I could also understand from the government in the autumn that a meeting was taken I think it was at Marienborg and told the company leaders and a broad circle that now they should go home and hire some Syrians who had come as refugees. As far as I remember, I don't know the final figure, but it may be that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen has been involved in some discussions about it • very few people have got into work on that account. The fact is, what the Prime Minister says in his opening speech is that of all immigrants from non-western countries, not even half are employed, although many have been here for 10, 20 and 30 years. That's deeply worrying, he says. I agree with that. But what is it that should suddenly get employers to hire all these people? What kind of instrument is that, sir? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen will use them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140552	I think it is a rather depressing approach to have that because something has not worked in the past, we should apparently just throw everything on the floor and give up. I therefore insist that integration into the labour market is the best form of integration that can be achieved in Denmark. That is why we want to talk to the social partners. That is why we want to increase the incentive to take a job, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also voted in favour of introducing an integration benefit, so that we also provide an economic incentive to take a job. I still believe that we can talk to the social partners, make agreements with the social partners and get them to take their share of the responsibility for bringing more people into the labour market from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140634	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140638	Thank you. I understand, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen is very concerned that we are not more detailed in the demands we are now imposing on the government. We must, of course, take note of that and remember that the next time we find a majority around you. I actually thought that this would be seen as a courtesy and a proposal for a good discussion about perhaps finding common solutions. I have recently heard that in Sweden there is now a year and a half waiting time for children to come to the dentist. These are some of the things that can happen when very large amounts of foreigners come to a country. My question is this: Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen guarantees that there are no municipalities in Denmark where we are going because of the large amount of foreigners who are coming to Denmark right now... will see great problems in fulfilling the welfare promises given to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140729	I have to repeat that we do not use direct indictments. And I certainly do not have any personal need to correct anyone; I am just sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140738	Thank you for that, President. I can reassure you, sir. Dan Jørgensen says I don't often get picked up. I am sometimes puzzled, and I am a little surprised that you want something investigated that you cannot define what is, i.e. refugee villages. In the reply from Mr. Dan Jørgensen before, there wasn't a single example of what it really is you're talking about. That is why I consider it somewhat like such an excuse for the phrase 'fluffy expression' used by the Socialists without having entirely taken a position on what it is. But it would also destroy the fine brotherhood between the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party if you were to explain what you really mean. To give guarantees of waiting times with dentists in the municipal system I think I'm a tiny bit out of my job description and my area of responsibility, so no, I don't want to get into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140827	Here you go, sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140829	Then maybe I can ask a little more general. When you refuse to negotiate with the municipalities again, despite the fact that what you promised the municipalities, which was an immediate slowing down in the number of asylum seekers, has proved to be something you could not live up to when you made an agreement with the municipalities, yes, the result will be that the municipalities have less money than they thought they would have to solve the tasks they are now facing. The municipalities estimate that they will have to save 2-3 billion. kr. Well, then, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen tells me how to get the same welfare in Denmark for 2-3 billion. kr. Less?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140905	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140907	I think it is an interesting explanation that the government refuses to negotiate with the municipalities, since the government has called the municipalities for negotiations, which have been given the rather strange expression of two-party negotiations, that is, what we others call a conversation. It's just about discussing with the municipalities what it is about, which not only contains the social democratic universal solution send more money, but which you can launch with the municipalities to make this burden easier to lift for them. It is also necessary to say that the agreement made in the autumn between the government and the municipalities added an extra 325 million to the municipalities. kr. to lift this bet with. So no, there is certainly no one who refuses to talk over on our side of the fence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120140958	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141002	I think it is very welcome that the Liberal Democrats, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party support the request to create state refugee villages or do they really do? I can be a little doubty when I hear Mr. Knox. Mr Jakob-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen on his excellent report. Then we could not get a very clear statement from the government that if there is a majority in the Folketing of the Social Democrats, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party that wants to introduce refugee villages, then will the government of course abide by that? As part of the parliamentarianism that we have in Denmark, the government, of course, adheres to that majority, even if there are all kinds of excuses that it is not good and that you can see problems with hospital care, with teachers for the school etc. etc. You have to find solutions to that. That is precisely why we are asking for a basis for decision. So can we not be told once and for all: will the government abide by a majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141102	I'll assume the government will. Now I am not part of the government, I am political rapporteur for the Left. I admit that the Left represents a good portion of the government, but I am my party's rapporteur and bikes often. To make this a question of whether or not you agree with the desire for refugee villages, I think, is going to be going a long way. I think, for example. Nas Khader's speaking time may not exactly be that the Conservative People's Party agrees with this, but has a desire to investigate it here. That is what the proposal for adoption says, namely that we want to examine it here. And I almost hear the rapporteur's speech, as if whatever such a study might bring out of new under the sun, but then you're hoping that this is what you want to do. Why, then, is this not what has been proposed to do instead of putting forward a proposal to investigate it? I understand that the Danish People's Party wants this no matter what, no matter how good or foolish it may turn out to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141214	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141215	Good. I understand that the government and the Left will abide by it if there is such a majority on the other side that we have a basis for decision. Then I would like to ask Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked: What kind of jobs are these, sir? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen predicts that it will be possible, let us say, to get 50,000 asylum seekers and refugees coming to Denmark to take part in the negotiations on the labour market? I have to admit, I find it hard to see what kind of jobs this is. We have Danish unemployed, we must remember, in the labour market. Are these the jobs they should otherwise have to be taken by refugees or who will deliver the jobs that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141305	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141306	I have to start by correcting a little misconception from Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup's side. So it is not asylum seekers who are going to work, it is people who have been granted asylum and not asylum seekers. After all, we must make a distinction there. And that is precisely what we want to discuss with the social partners. What are the obstacles to these people being recruited? And what kind of job is that? Well, it depends on qualifications, which it also does in most places in society than right here, where we are now, and you have to look at that with the individual. But it is a discussion that we want to take with the social partners, because we therefore believe that they can, as soon as they are asked, provide intelligent and qualified input.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141351	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141354	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would like to know whether the rapporteur acknowledges the KL's assessment of the size of the task, which is, of course, that close to 40 000 more refugees will be granted a residence permit in this country in the course of the next year or one and a half. When we count it all on and on everything that needs to be done to solve such a task, we're talking about approx. 21⁄2 billion. kr., estimate KL. Does the rapporteur agree that this is the size of the task? What is the rapporteur's response to KL when KL says that if they do not receive more money, welfare will suffer? Will the rapporteur be in favour of more money being allocated to the municipalities so that they can do the job, or does the rapporteur have the view that it should be made available to KL for the money they have at their disposal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141443	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141444	There is a slight tendency to the usual solution, including from Enhedslisten, which states that if you have a challenge, you need more money. So basically, I just don't agree with that. I recognise that there is a major task ahead and especially for the municipalities, but whether that is one figure or another, I do not want to dwell on it. The fact is, this is a big task and it's a costly task. That is why the government has invited the municipalities to discuss how we can deal with this. Are there other tools than just what is going on to send more money that you can draw on to make it easier, to make it more flexible for the municipalities, and are there some more relaxing requirements that you can make in other areas? A number of proposals have already been made by the KL, and we in the Left are also very sensitive to what further proposals need to be made here. But the money must come from somewhere, as it is, every time we discuss anything in this Chamber. Whether the money comes from one box or another... they have to come from somewhere. I agree with what Enhedslisten has proposed, and I do not think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141555	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141557	Thank you. What I asked the rapporteur to deal with was the core of KL's announcement, which is that if you do not get more money, it will affect the welfare of the municipalities. That is something that must be taken very seriously and seriously, but I do not think the rapporteur really answered it. No, it is not surprising to me that the Left is opposed to the postponement of corporate tax reductions, but then I just ask: what is the Left's proposal for funding? Or is the rapporteur's message to the municipalities: do you just have to deal with the same money? If so, will the rapporteur admit that then the rapporteur is jointly responsible for cutting welfare in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141637	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141638	So I simply do not recognise the premise that there is no other solution than more money. I do not recognise that premise. So we need to get a little creative thinking hat on here and find other solutions and find ways to make the money stretch longer, because there is And the government has just negotiated with the municipalities this autumn to provide additional grants of 325 million. kr. to this area. No matter how you turn it: you spend more money, they have to be found somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141719	Thank you. There is a great deal of questioning, but I have to go further in the rapporteur's line now. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120141732	In fact, Enhedslisten was pleased when Dansk Folkeparti called for this request to focus on the fact that the municipalities are not being compensated for the more refugees and family members who come into the municipalities, but with the proposal from the Danish People's Party, the Social Democrats and the Conservatives, the government is now being forced not to answer the question of what to do in order to afford the municipalities the task that they have already been given. You are asked to illuminate refugee villages, which we have not been able to find out what the size or purpose of these villages is. After all, we fear that refugee villages will isolate refugees from local schools, from local jobs, from local educational establishments, and this will weaken integration and isolate the refugees in some special ghettos, which I think they should be called rather than villages. And that does not help the municipalities in the current situation where the refugees have come into the municipalities and their families are on their way. Many of them live in temporary homes, and that is not solved either. My own experience with municipal construction is that the square meter price is often the same wherever you build it. Barracks may be a little cheaper in the short term, but expensive in the long term. So there will be limited scope for savings by having to be refugee villages rather than some local construction that the municipalities stood for. Instead of building some refugee villages out in the bare field isolated from society and which will be left empty as the refugees of course move out and become integrated into Denmark or return home to their country of origin, as it may be, we would rather spend the money on building housing, cheap housing, to the many different groups that are now having difficulty finding a housing they can afford. I think it can be said that the National Association of Municipalities has clearly illustrated the scale of the task by saying that if there are 60,000 people in our country, it is equivalent to an average Danish municipality. And how much does an average Danish municipality cost? It costs about this 21⁄2 billion. kr., so that's the money that it costs to run a community and that we have to find. That money must be raised from somewhere, and we propose that we find the money and give it to the municipalities, which then solves the task, and we do so by postponing the reduction in corporation tax that has been proposed. When we discuss these 21⁄2 billion. kr., it is funny that it fits exactly with the change of priority contribution that you intend to collect in the municipalities and that the government and the Danish People's Party have so far thought no consequences whatsoever. But we believe that both will have consequences in this way. We probably disagree about where the money should come from, but Enhedslisten has joined forces with the Radicals, the Alternative and the SF to present the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that the integration task is best done in the municipalities. Local authorities' demands for increased funding in the light of more refugees must be met. The government should quickly ensure a common plan with the municipalities, which provides security for funding. Successful integration requires interaction with communities, schools, educational establishments and jobs. Therefore, the refugees must be provided with housing locally. - - - - - - - - - - - - Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142057	The proposal is part of the further discussion. There's a questioner for the moment. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142107	Thank you. I would like to ask Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten recognises that the number coming to Denmark, and hence also the number going to the municipalities, means something for the welfare that one has in the municipalities, and that matters how much money is available in relation to elderly care, in relation to the school area, in relation to so many other things in the welfare area? Because if Enhedslisten recognizes it and that's the first question I would also like to know what Enhedslisten will do in the future. Do you think that you should keep finding money in different places, because they ultimately come from the same box, or do you also think that it is so serious that you also have to look at how to limit the number that comes to Denmark so that you can maintain a proper welfare society vis-à-vis the citizens who now live in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142152	Well Enhedslisten fully acknowledges that, of course, when so many people come to Denmark, some expenses are included. That is why we have also said that some of the reductions in corporation tax that have been proposed should be suspended and then spent on it. So the question is whether we should distribute money to corporate tax reductions, cheaper expensive cars and perhaps also the relief of top tax, which there are more on the bourgeois wing who want. We can choose to spend the money on that, or we can choose to spend the money on the task that is actually going to be solved in the municipalities, whether the Danish People's Party likes it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142230	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142232	It is set up in a somewhat simplistic way by Mr. Jesper Kiel. I mean, Enhedslisten has the view that it is of course no surprise, but it has been so that these people can easily integrate into Danish society. But we in the Danish People's Party have asked the other rapporteurs what they want to do differently in terms of integrating them, because they have tried, I was just about to say it all in terms of integrating the many people who are coming, and they have not succeeded in doing so for many, so what is the new thing that Enhedslisten imagines to do in terms of integrating these people into the labour market, etc., when everything we have done so far has not succeeded? The other parties have not been able to answer what the new is, but the Enhedslisten may be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142313	Well, it's about what's the alternative? Of course, we need to do more and learn from the best experiences from the municipalities on how to ensure good integration. How do we get the children to learn Danish? We do that by putting them in local schools. How do we get the adults who come here to get a job? We do this by placing them locally in some communities where they come across Danes and they get to know people, and they say: Hey, maybe you could get a job at my workplace. And then you invite people in. This is the way to get to a society and the way to integrate people. That is why it is incredibly important for the refugees to be placed locally, precisely in order to achieve the best possible result. But the Danish People's Party proposes to isolate refugees so that there will be zero integration, and that is the most hopeless thing to propose at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142359	Sir. Christian Langballe, Dansk Folkepartie, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142401	Well, now it'll probably be too much to demand that in this area there should be a shred of reality recognition on the part of Enhedslisten. I would really like to know where the limit goes for the Enhedslisten in that area, because Enhedslisten always talks about how more money can be spent on integration. How many must come? Is there a limit? Is that 60,000 in a year? Is it 100,000 in a year? Or where does the limit go? Well, I've never heard Enhedslisten come up with a single bid on how Denmark should look in 10 and 20 years. There are some loose ideas about integration, but it is not realistic that we can integrate 60 000 into Denmark, which could perhaps come within a year. And what about next year and next year? So where does the limit really go for how many refugees Denmark can take and how many refugees Denmark can integrate? I'd like to hear a bid for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142501	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142502	I have to say that now that the Danish People's Party has called for a question debate on how to solve the financial problems of the municipalities with the task they have been given with the refugees, I think it is a little flabby when the Danish People's Party asks questions about something that they have not themselves raised a debate about. That is why I think that the Danish People's Party has yet to answer how to solve the financial problems of the municipalities. Because even if you make refugee villages and it's a really bad idea, and you ensure totally bad integration, it doesn't solve the problem that it's going to cost something too. And where will that money come from? The Danish People's Party has not answered that question. The Danish People's Party, on the other hand, has agreed to take 2.5 billion. kr. In this context, the Commission notes that, in the case of regional aid, the aid was granted in the form of a grant to the local authorities, in the form of a grant from the local authorities, without the obvious consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142548	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142552	Now it is not I who, so to speak, assumes that integration can simply be resolved by giving the municipalities more money. We assume that social engineering simply cannot be done, and our condition has been that these refugees should not be integrated, but that they should go home to their own society, because that is the basic condition for being a refugee, namely that they should return home at some point. Then I ask the rapporteur, on the other hand, when the rapporteur says that more money should be added to the municipalities, where the limit goes for the Enhedslisten, compared to how many people Denmark can receive in one year or over the next four years, and then where the limit goes for how many people can be integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142641	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142642	Well, that question is raised many times, but the problem is that when people come to our country, we have obligations to accept them if they have the right to asylum, and then we have to find a solution. That is the problem we have to solve. Enhedslisten hasn't, the government hasn't, the Danish People's Party hasn't said: So and so many we want, and then invited them up here. They have come up here on their own precisely because no solution has been found at international level as to how best to distribute the refugees. We'd like to see that. Then we could discuss how many each country should have, but that has not been achieved. Therefore, there are those who come here, and we have to solve that task, but the Danish People's Party will not be involved in this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142723	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120142739	The Danish People's Party has called for this urgent request about what the increasing number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark means for the municipalities financially this year and next year. There is no doubt that it will push the costs in the municipalities. That is beyond question. Then you can discuss how to respond to that challenge. I believe that it is possible to respond by allowing municipalities to do some things better in relation to their ordinary operations, to debureaucratize some of the procedures that are currently in relation to integration work, but, first and last, to ensure that fewer asylum seekers come to Denmark by helping in the outlying areas to a much greater extent than we are doing today, rather than helping here. Then a number of parties propose that we examine the situation around refugee villages and whether they can be established. It is my impression that at some point the government would still come up with such an investigation. At least there was some discussion about that at some point. Whether it should be March 1st or April 1st, you might as well have long discussions about it. It could certainly create a front page on the Jyllands-Posten. I am very concerned, as I understand, that a month in Danish politics is now extremely crucial, since 6 months last week was indifferent, but that is something we have of course taken note of. And also that the thing about whether things go a little faster or a little slower is significant. We in the Liberal Alliance are very sceptical about the concept of refugee villages. We are because we really believe that it will end up with people sitting there for a very long time and that they will get into Danish society afterwards rather than back to the countries where they come from. In other words, the link with the labour market is made more difficult, the link with the educational institutions is made more difficult and integration is made more difficult. Therefore, our fear is that these refugee villages will make it more expensive for the Danish taxpayers, who are ultimately going to pay. Everyone's talking about it being the same box the money comes from. So the money does not come from a box, the money comes from the Danes' pockets, and that is what we are concerned with, namely that the Danes do not have to pay too much. Then we also fear, if we now have to make the integration part a little more clear, that these refugee villages will become real ghetto factories, that it will actually be new ghettos, which we almost decide we want to have, with all the problems of parallel societies, women's oppression and so on, for which we can be concerned. And we do not want to contribute to that. That is why we are abstaining from voting on the series of proposals for adoption today because, on the one hand, we do not support the parties that stand on the left of the Socialists and, on the other, members of the red bloc, because we believe that their policy will only lead to more asylum seekers in Denmark and therefore even more costs and even greater difficulties in integration. But let us help people in the neighbourhood and then stop having to discuss patch solutions all the time, because it is both this and the agreements that we ourselves have been involved in making with the government in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143117	Thank you. There are a few questions, and I should like to ask you to keep to the speaking time, because otherwise it will be difficult over time here in the end. The first is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143128	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says loud and good at first that the party wants fewer people to come to Denmark. What will the Liberal Alliance specifically do to ensure that fewer people come to Denmark? In other words, we reject a number of solutions, such as: the fact that they are only being helped temporarily, which will of course have the effect that there will of course be fewer people in Denmark. For many of those who wander on the motorways around Europe are not wandering for temporary protection, they are wandering for a permanent new life. If we get our policy implemented, our instrument here, then there will be fewer people in Denmark. If you reject it, how will you instead ensure that there are fewer people coming to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143207	What I rejected was the refugee villages. It's just like that, so we hold on to what I actually rejected. We are, in fact, very willing to discuss the second question of whether asylum of a more temporary nature can be granted than is currently the case. We would like to discuss this, because we think we could actually help. You can also start discussing the benefits again. We have helped to put them down in this parliamentary term together, but it might be that we should look at whether it is not this lucrative welfare state that we have that attracts people here. You can have many discussions about why we have so many asylum seekers in Denmark. This is, in our opinion, the wrong way in which the state has been organized; one is so generous when it comes to giving a lot of money to people. I think that means a lot. The reason I'm worried about the villages is because I've heard one of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's fellow party members who have been out to say that we may not be able to get our model, but we want the villages so badly. And then it ends with villages, and it ends with them staying here, and then it ends with ghettos.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143312	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143315	If we now agree that many of those who walk through Europe are going to go to a place where they have a permanent new life and that they are not going to go to a country where they have temporary protection from the war they say they are initially fleeing, but simply to have a permanent new life in a new country, then it is vital that we do not have a permanent new life, but that we are being helped temporarily, until we can return, and if we know that we will perhaps opt out of Denmark. So the question is: Does the system we have today bother us; does it ensure this? No, because even if we are in the legislation with temporary residence permits, it is in the practical world that people are integrated from day one. That is why refugee villages are an instrument in which it can be stressed that temporary aid is temporary, that is to say, for people to return home, and then there will be fewer people in Denmark. And that's part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143410	I think the problem is that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually asks some very good questions, but gives some slightly bad answers. Well, we're a little back with Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen's statement that the only thing that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats actually agree on is that you want these refugee villages. But how they should be, how they should be arranged, and the temporary nature are not, in fact, agreed. And it may well be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can boss it through the Folketing, and good luck with it, but I'd like to make a bet with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that if that happens, it will end with "in the real world" that it will be the pure ghetto factories that will be adopted with the votes of the Danish People's Party, and I do not think that is what the Danes want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143455	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143458	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur how he envisages helping in the neighbourhoods. Is it in the form of camps, or is it in the form of a much stronger development aid, so that the surrounding society too, in other words the people who live there already, gets help? We had a visit from the UNHCR yesterday. They said you can't keep people in the camps at all. We have an increasingly urbanised society and people simply will not accept that they should live in camps. But let us finally say that there are some who are forced to stay because they are too weak to leave the area: then they will typically be in a camp for 20 years. And to maintain the life of a person in a camp for 20 years everything else will be equal, said UNHCR, much more expensive than it would be to get a person to Denmark, integrate it and get it into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143556	Yes, but unlike Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, we in the Liberal Alliance will not accept that people can decide for themselves which country they want to live in and can decide for themselves which country's taxpayers they want to be financed by. You can't do that in the real world. So if we come out of the imagination and back to the reality we are in, where we are also here to take care of Danish society, then we must help fewer people in Denmark and more in the neighbourhood. We had the discussion... it's been a week or two? That is also our view this week. And if I'm asked next week, I'll repeat that's still our point of view. I promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143649	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143651	What I am talking about is not whether refugees should decide for themselves which country they come to, but that is where you help best. The rapporteur says that we can help more people in the neighbourhood than we can help by coming here to Denmark. No, says UNHCR, that is simply not true. We can help fewer people in Denmark they may be a few years before they become integrated and become self-supporting. In a refugee camp, we must help the same people with everything for 20 years and it will be much more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143729	Let us now agree that the ordinary thing is that you are not the ordinary thing, that you are not self-supporting. That is why Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and the Alternative simply have to come in and play on the same track as the rest of us and present calculations. I can easily present calculations that show that more people can be helped for the same money if they do so in the neighbourhood. I would like to challenge Mrs Ulla Sandbæk for it to be more than just talk: present a calculation showing that you can help more people for the same money in Denmark and ensure that most people, as was even said, are integrated and self-supporting. I think it sounds exciting and we are very open to discussing it if there are real calculations behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143813	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143816	I have to say that there is something in the terms of the rapporteur's presentation which I simply do not understand. What matters now is that the refugees who come to the country are converted into immigrants from day one. One assumes that these people must be integrated into Danish society. We think that is a mistake. We believe that the basic premise is that the people who come are refugees. And that means they must return to their homeland when it is the case that there is peace in their homeland. So I ask: why is it that the rapporteur assumes that if we set up these refugee villages, these people will never come home again when the problem itself is that people are being turned into immigrants from day one and thus pretending or even assuming, which we do not do, that they stay here forever?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120143924	I do not know how best to illustrate this, but we can say that the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance agreed that we should vote against it on 3 December last year. The two parties together represent 50 seats. However, it cannot be said that there are 50 mandates for the EU policy of the Liberal Alliance, and that is a little the method that the Danish People's Party uses in its questioning technique today. You go along with the Social Democrats and the Conservatives, have a tiny group of people who are talking about the word refugee villages, and then you claim as a prerequisite for your questions that the Social Democrats and Conservatives also agree with the Danish People's Party's policy on foreigners. I think it is customary to use the word untruth here in the Folketing, but I do believe that I will go so far as to say that this is a lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144015	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144017	In other words, the rapporteur must try to look at what is actually contained in the proposal for adoption that we jointly support. This proposal also involves a disagreement, and it has indeed emerged in this debate. So that means that the prerequisite is the establishment of refugee villages. From there there is a disagreement. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur, and to which the rapporteur did not reply, is: I believe that the problem in the policy being pursued now is that refugees are converted into immigrants from day one, and thus actually so without telling the Danes that they are going to stay here forever, and I think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144101	Well, I can easily understand the problem. My claim is that what the Danish People's Party is promoting today is that you turn the same people into immigrants, but you just make sure you make integration more difficult and send a more expensive bill to the Danish taxpayers. It is my claim that this is what will happen if the Danish People's Party gets power on this issue in the small part that you agree with the Social Democrats because the rest of the sentence is adopted by a broad majority outside the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. Therefore, you get the bad from your own proposal and the bad from the others' suggestions. And then you'll just get taxpayers' expenses and worse integration, and we won't be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative, as rapporteur. I should just like to say that, as we have to be done at some point and there must also be room for the Minister and questions, for reasons of time, we need to cut it down to the fact that there will be only one question for each of the remaining rapporteurs. And I want you to keep your time tight or I'll interrupt! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144209	Thank you very much. The alternative fully recognises that the municipalities are under pressure and that they must be provided with additional money from the state, but what is most important is that if the pressure on the municipalities is to be eased, we must succeed with integration so that the refugees can enter the labour market as quickly as possible and become self-sufficient. A stay in a refugee village will certainly not lead to that, on the contrary. The asylum seekers come with a great desire to learn Danish and get into work, to be integrated and to contribute to Danish society. We must do everything we can to support this, and it is best to start at the asylum phase at the asylum centres. It is an investment that pays off regardless of whether asylum seekers are granted asylum or not. Approx. 80% Today, asylum seekers receive asylum and what the last 20 per cent. As regards, they will come back to their home countries with a number of competences that will benefit both themselves and their countries. It is totally debilitating for asylum seekers to spend the first many months in an asylum centre, inactivity and clients. The fact that asylum seekers have been offered that life for too many years is precisely why integration has so far failed. I would like to acknowledge the Radical Left for a number of concrete proposals on how time in the asylum centres can best promote integration. These are thoughts, as we have also done in the Alternative, that it can be done with intensive language teaching, with the clarification of competence, with the cooperation of the municipalities and the business community, with the right to work from day one, with refugees being settled in the municipalities that demand their competences, and with the money following the refugee, so that it will be possible to move to a municipality where there is work • just to mention some of the very thought-out and constructive proposals that the Radical Left has put forward. There are some high schools which are already receiving refugees as pupils with great success today. It's only 700 kroner. a week, and this is a unique opportunity for a refugee to have the best possible opportunity to integrate both linguistically and socially in terms of knowledge of Danish culture and the development of friendships, which can lead to all possible entrances to the job and housing market. And the municipality would get half or even a full year's grace to find accommodation and work for the refugee. Putting a refugee in a refugee village would be a disaster for integration. When you come to a new country and have not yet had family reunification and are therefore in a permanent concern for your family and in total uncertainty as to how life will be shaped in the new country, you will of course seek with the neighbours who share your situation and speak your language. And you don't want a surplus to move beyond the borders of the village. Therefore, in our joint proposal for adoption, we point out that successful integration requires interaction with local communities, schools, educational establishments and jobs, and that refugees must therefore be provided with housing locally. Refugees are not just an expense. This is due to the fact that society's spending on a citizen lies in the first 20 years of a citizen's life, where there is the cost of day nurseries, kindergartens, schooling and medical visits, and in the last 20 years of a citizen's life, where there is in particular the cost of a retirement pension and medical treatment. Society's income is in the intermediate 40-50 years when a person is active in the labour market. When asylum seekers come to Denmark as 20- or 30-year-olds, they have therefore lived many of the first expensive years elsewhere and are at an age where they can go directly into the labour market and contribute positively to society, if we feel successful with integration. President Time has passed). Time's up? Okay, then I'll have to stop here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144648	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. There are no questions, so I thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120144702	Thank you, President. This question is about the municipalities and refugees. Municipalities demand financial assistance and help for new housing, both permanent and temporary. Government after government has put forward plans to fight the so-called ghettos. We've actually spent decades trying to get off that road. And now that the crisis is scratching, the answer is that we must rip people for their brought values and intercept them in interim state villages. But these are the very ghettos we want to fight against. Why do we want more of that? We know that's where it goes wrong. It is poison for integration and it will be a really expensive pleasure. It is said that it is to relieve the municipalities, but how does integration make it easier for the municipalities to intercept refugees even longer in isolated ghettos without being part of society? How can it make integration easier for children to grow up in refugee children's gardens? How does it make it easier for refugees to learn Danish only to meet each other? That doesn't make any sense. The municipalities are facing a huge task, but then let us give them the helping hand they need. They do not demand state refugee villages, they demand funding for the task as it grows. And that's all I needed. So perhaps at Christiansborg we should fight a little less, listen a little more to those who have the job to do everyday in the real world, which the Prime Minister also talked about yesterday, and find some realistic solutions that can also bring us more success in integration. Everyone hopes so, but nobody knows when there will be peace in Syria and neighbouring countries, and that is why we must think very carefully before deciding to isolate refugees in villages. We know from experience, from the research point of view, that the more normal the everyday life of the refugees, the better. That is why we must start a dignified integration from the very first day. To postpone integration only makes the task greater and the price higher. A new integration effort should be built on the mantra of jobs first. Shorter and more intensive business-oriented integration courses • it is central. Viewing jobs as the final step after trauma treatment and language should be over. And only to start after an undefined long stay in a refugee village is the opposite. We must start from the motivation of the refugees, right when they come, to re-establish a self-supporting everyday life as quickly as possible. That is what matters. We should spend all our time helping the municipalities with that is what they are asking us to help them with instead of spending our time on something they are not asking us to do. The Social Democrats want refugee villages, but do not say I couldn't get that out of them at least how they should work. The left is against refugee villages, but ends up voting in favour anyway. And that is why I must just say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: congratulations, you are now in a position to manage both the government and the opposition's largest party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120145024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120145038	In the SF, we fear that refugee villages will harm integration, especially if the Danish People's Party gets their will that the refugees just sit in the villages instead of going to school, to education or to take a job. Refugee villages will create parallel societies and ghettos, and that is why it is completely paradoxical to say that we have failed with integration, so to come up with a proposal that will harm integration even more. Successful integration requires interaction with the community. The abolition of poverty benefits will provide a better opportunity to find housing because refugees can then pay the rent better, but DF has supported the government in the need for poverty benefits. It has also been supported by the government that the possibility available to municipalities for cheaper housing was abolished. It is quite incomprehensible to us in the SF that the government has refused to meet with the municipalities to discuss the increasing economic pressure caused by an increasing number of refugees, and the government's re-priority contribution is also helping to push the municipalities' economy. The government should convene the National Association of Municipalities to discuss how we can financially help the municipalities so that they have sufficient resources to solve the integration task. The President of the KL has been out to say no to refugee villages. He believes it will damage integration and demand a meeting with the government. When the governments of several countries, including not least the Danish government, have significantly reduced aid to the neighbourhoods, it causes more people to flee to Europe because children and adults in refugee camps lack food and water and other basic things. We know that it is a fact that the reason for the increasing number of refugees fleeing is that there was simply no money for basic things like food. It is therefore also quite incomprehensible that the government has chosen to ignore a majority in the Folketing when the SF proposed to the government to implement the budgeted payments of development aid of 1.4 billion. kr. It is important that we in Europe find common solutions to the refugee crisis. In SF we do not believe that border barriers and national solutions are the answer. We must find solidarity solutions along with a fairer distribution of the refugees who come to Europe. Today, after all, this urgent question is about the economy of the municipalities, and I think we should make it quite clear what we are talking about when we talk about the economy. There is a re-priority contribution, as has so well been called, savings in the municipalities, of 2.4 billion. kr. 15 billion annually; kr. in the years to come. There are tax cuts for the richest company heirs in this country of 2 billion. kr. in the years to come. There is a registration fee for luxury cars of 1.2 billion. kr. in the years to come. There are tax cuts for the richest homeowners of 1⁄2 billion. kr. This year already. The choice has been made to have poverty benefits that make integration even more difficult. It has been decided to remove the possibility of cheaper housing for the municipalities, which makes it harder to find housing for these people, and it has been cut significantly, it has actually put Denmark record in savings on foreign aid, and that means that we have even more refugees. It's a fact. I find it extremely inconvenient that the government and DF are trying to turn this into a question that the only reason why the municipalities' economy is not linked is that there is refugee pressure. In these years, the reason why the economy of the municipalities is not linked is the removal of 15 billion. kr., which DF has signed. That's way more than this job costs right now. It's not like it's not a challenge. We all agree that what is happening in these years is a challenge, but to say that the reason why there is no money in the municipalities is a refugee pressure is a direct lie. 15 billion kr. you are in DF directly responsible for not being out in the municipalities! That's 15 billion. kr. that will not go to educators, to care for the elderly, to community health, and that is your responsibility!
ParlaMint-DK_20160120145452	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I have to say that when you say that something is a lie, you must at least be able to prove it afterwards. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120145509	What I'm about to say is true. We are in the midst of a historic refugee crisis in Denmark and in the rest of Europe. The refugee crisis is not global, because there are a lot of countries that escape: the rich Arab countries do not accept Syrian refugees, and the United States, which has really had a great deal of responsibility in relation to what is happening, has only granted asylum to about 1,500 Syrian refugees in 3 years, and Japan has only granted asylum to 15. So it's primarily the European Union that's facing this challenge. The Schengen Agreement has collapsed in practice, Europe's borders are under pressure, and at home the municipalities find it difficult to keep up. That is why I believe that this is an important debate that we have today. What are we going to do about the refugee and migrant situation? There is no doubt that the refugee, migrant crisis has already left its mark on the economy of the municipalities, including integration efforts, housing, schools, the labour market, and that will be the case in the years to come. Therefore, it is also quite natural that the KL wishes to discuss the issue in the context of the forthcoming economic discussions between KL and the government. At first sight, it sounds as if the municipalities have a number of good arguments for them to be compensated further. However, the Conservative People's Party respects the system of agreements, and that is why we will leave the negotiations to them and the government. In order to relieve the pressure, the challenge has come political desires to create state refugee villages. We can see both the advantages and disadvantages of refugee villages. There are so many unanswered questions in relation to state refugee villages, but we want to be open and open-minded, and that is why we support today the majority's desire to have it investigated: what are the consequences, the economic and integration implications of state refugee villages? Now there has been a date, a deadline, and it needs to be examined, and we fully support that. Having said all that, it is important to emphasise and repeat over and over again that everything we are doing and saying at the moment is symptom treatment. We dance around the hot porridge. Most who come here come from Syria and neighbouring countries, and there are a lot that gets into the slipstream of them... it can be Iranians, it can be Pakistanis and others. The fact is that the international community has failed Syria and the Syrian crisis. There has not been the necessary political leadership to stop the madness in Syria, which has not been a will to protect the 10 million internally displaced persons, for example. establishing no-fly zones and humanitarian corridors. The 4-5 million refugees living in neighbouring countries are not getting enough help and some of them are living in holes in the ground, and we are now seeing the consequences of the fact that we have left behind in relation to the Syrian crisis. The international community should have shown due diligence 3-4 years ago when it was clear that Syria, in particular, was developing into a powder keg. But now the barrel has exploded with effect on neighbouring countries, and this also has consequences for us here in Denmark. I think it's pathetic, it's sad. Those who pay the price are civilians, they're children, they're innocent children. Some of those who come here, perhaps the majority, are single men, and that is why I would like to repeat that the current asylum system is pounding unsolidarian, because they are the ones who can afford it, they are the ones who are physically able to come here. You have to get your foot on Danish soil to get asylum, and that simply cannot be right, and that is why we have to think out of the box. We have to pick up refugees from the refugee camps, we have to pick up families so that there is no reason for family reunification afterwards, and we can undermine the business of human smugglers in this way. One last thing: the agreement that EU countries have made with Turkey does not work because every day 5 000 refugees from Turkey come into the European Union. That is why the agreement must be implemented, it must be up to speed. At least that is something that can reduce the pressure we are under today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150001	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a question from Mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150006	Thank you for the rapporteur's intervention. When I hear that, I have some doubts as to why the rapporteur supports the proposal on refugee villages which has now been put forward. I actually heard that the rapporteur was of the opinion that the municipalities and the KL have a good cause, that we need increased financial resources in order to be able to fulfil the task we have been given and that we are really doing it well out there. That is what Enhedslisten and some other parties have proposed, and then the Conservatives should vote in favour of it. On the other hand, I did not really hear much praise for the fact that refugee villages are the answer to the problem. And I have not been able to find out from the Danish People's Party whether there is such a big thing with refugee villages, where you are interned in a ghetto and must live there and not move out and not work, and whether there should be internal schools. I imagine it that way, but I have not been able to know if that is what is meant. And then there is the social democracy model, which is a little more locally integrated, but whether it is 2,000 or 200 people living there, I still haven't been able to really get smart about it. But what do the Conservatives say about what a refugee village is? It is of course a little interesting to know whether there are refugee villages to house 2 000 people or 200 when the government has to answer the consequences of setting them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150119	With regard to the economy, we think it is important that there is close dialogue between the municipalities and the government, and we respect the contractual system. As far as state refugee villages are concerned, I would repeat what we said during the November negotiations, namely that we have no problem with examining the consequences of state refugee villages. In other words, if it alleviates the municipalities in terms of housing for a period of time, then there may be sense in it, but if it is about setting up state ghettos, it is not so reasonable. That is why we say that we would like it to be examined. There are a lot of questions we would like to have answered, and that is what is being decided today, namely to have it examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150207	Sir. Jesper Kiel just gets 15 seconds to the last question. We're under pressure of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150216	What I would like to know is whether it is the major detention camps of the Danish People's Party that are supported by the government to investigate, or whether it is the small local refugee villages of the Social Democrats that the government has to give an answer to whether it is a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150230	We take a position on state villages when an analysis of the integration and economic consequences has been carried out. Until then, we will not take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150244	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and then we turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. And then I have to say that when we go to questions to the Minister, it is 30 seconds per day. Question. We are under pressure of time, simply because the Folketing has a very, very nice chairman who has been a little too large to begin with. But that is how it is to have a very nice President, and of course we should not complain about that. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150310	Thank you. I think we have had an interesting debate, but perhaps most of all a debate that has shown that there is at least a basis for examining what refugee villages should actually contain if we are to have them at all. So we need to have a basis for decision, because when you listen to today's debate, there is, of course, a wide difference in the position of the parties. So it is perhaps more the word refugee village that we agree on than the content of a refugee village. That is why, of course, the debate has been interesting. It has not clarified as many of the issues as each of us might have. In particular, it is surprising that the Social Democratic Party is pleading violently for refugee villages, but at the same time cannot really define what content one imagines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150418	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of questions, the first is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. And that's 30 seconds a day. Question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150426	Understood. Thank you, sir. President. The number of refugees is a major challenge for the municipalities, the Minister said in his reply in the question debate here. And that is why I just have to ask the Minister whether the Minister agrees with the Minister for Finance that the municipalities are wailing or agree with the Prime Minister that the municipalities are not complaining about the costs they are incurred in relation to refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150455	Before the Minister answers, I have to say that there are no more people who can sign up to ask questions. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150501	As I already said in my speech, there is no doubt that the municipalities are facing a huge task right now. But it is also the case that by far the largest part of the cost of the refugees who are placed in the individual municipalities is financed. In addition, the economic agreement last year already agreed an extra pool for the municipalities for the expenses that do not go with the individual refugee when he or she gets out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150539	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150540	I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that it is the case that, after that agreement was made with the municipalities, namely in December, the National Authority changed the figure of how many refugees are expected to move to integration in the municipalities at national level in 2016 from a figure of 12,000 to a figure of 17,000 and thus also confirm that it is indeed the case that the extra number of 5,000 has not been taken into account when the agreement was made with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150610	However, this does not change the fact that by far the majority of the economy follows the individual refugee regardless of the number that may come out to the municipalities. And that's a pretty important parameter in this whole discussion about the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150626	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150628	Thank you. After all, the question is about what the consequences of the large number of refugees are for the economy of the municipalities. I have not heard the Minister reply to that yet, despite the fact that this is the second time the Minister has been on the floor. What are the practical consequences? But I have to ask in another way: does the Minister recognize the cry from the KL that welfare will be affected if the municipalities do not get more money to do the big job? What is the Minister's answer to that? What will the government do to prevent what the KL warns against?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150701	It is quite clear what the government will do to avoid the situation that we are going to experience deteriorations in, for example. The core welfare. That's tightening up, and that's where the Enhedslisten could sort of just join that fight. We have, by a broad majority in the Folketing, put forward proposals for tightening up asylum and aliens, and the Enhedslisten is warmly welcome to join this debate. Because if we get a smaller influx to Denmark, less money will also have to be spent, which means that core welfare will not be pressured to the same extent. So it is an open invitation to Enhedslisten, and I will then expect with great interest and joy if also Enhedslisten will recognize the mechanism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150751	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150752	When Enhedslisten doesn't join that fight, it's because it's no use. Would the Minister not like to comment on what the KL says, namely that with the current rules on asylum and the current rules on family reunification, we will perhaps receive up to 40,000 more refugees over the next year or one and a half years, perhaps, for up to two years, than we now have? That's the cash job. What is the Minister's answer to KL when KL says: If the municipalities do not receive more money, it will suffer welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150829	Well, the government's answer is that there must be tightening up in the field of foreigners, and that damn it, when you look at what a relaxed foreign policy has been conducted over a number of years with Enhedslisten as a support party. Then you can't be surprised that you've seen a very large influx to Denmark. And if we also see a great deal of pressure on European borders right now, it is high time we tighten up our foreign policy. So the clear answer to this is to reduce the influx. I think it can only be Enhedslisten who does not want to share the view that living conditions matter. That is why it is one of the places where we put in, i.e. living conditions broadly, which are both family reunification rules, what social benefits you receive when you get here, how you become the house. All these things are of enormous importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150923	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150925	Thank you. Now the government has been busy handing out gifts to the wealthiest in this country in the Finance Act... car owners, homeowners and the richest company heirs... but if we put it aside and look only at the municipalities' finances, the Minister will confirm that the amount of the re-priority contribution costs 2.4 billion. kr., roughly similar to that, KL says that in a few years it will cost the municipalities in relation to the flow of refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120150952	It depends entirely on how we deal with the task we face. In other words, if we slow down the influx and there must again be an invitation to the Socialist People's Party to join the struggle • then the Danish economy will change. If we then actually ensure that these people enter the labour market, and we can do so, among other things. at the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule and the cash benefits ceiling, the SF is also welcome to join the fight. That is one of the things that will change the economy, so if we can both slow down the flow and at the same time make right and reasonable demands, so that we actually put these people on the labour market. That would change something, I would say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151031	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151033	It was a very long song from the hot countries. It was a way to avoid answering a very simple question: Does the re-priority contribution answer what the municipalities are going to save in the coming years • roughly for that, KL himself estimates that this task is going to cost? Since the Minister will not answer 'no' to that, I have to assume that the long explanation was a confirmation. Then you could solve the task by rolling back the savings, that is, the re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151108	Well, apparently there are several different ways of seeing the world, and I can just say that I do not share Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's view on this matter at all. This is for me to see that we have to ensure that we can keep up with the fact that we can keep up with both financially and in terms of value. This means, therefore, that we are going to implement some tightenings both in the labour market area, but indeed also in the area of asylum and aliens, and that is one of the things that is already in the Parliamentary Chamber now. So that is the kind of debate that can be welcomed. Having said that, I would like to say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that it is clear that if you just let go as the Socialist People's Party wants, this will be an expensive round, and then the KL's math might well be right. It may also be even more expensive, but then you have to have SF and Enhedslisten for the helm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151157	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151159	Thank you to the Minister for stating that it is absolutely essential, of course, that fewer people come to Denmark and that what the Minister describes as the influx is brought down. Earlier this day, the Ritzaus Bureau brought a telegram telling us that Austria has chosen a new strategy to bring down the number. The Austrian Government coalition has itself adopted a maximum number of asylum seekers which is simply to be accepted. Last year they must have taken a 90,000, and they have decided to do so to the maximum. must be 127,500 by 2019 • to bring it down considerably annually. If setting such a maximum number is compatible with the international conventions for Austria, it must also be for Denmark. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister will consider a similar feature for Denmark, so that we simply make a maximum number of asylum seekers for how many we think Danish society can cope with every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151254	In fact, I do not know about the Austrian proposal or initiative yet, but I will of course read it with interest. However, I have some doubts as to whether the international conventions are being adhered to. Of course, we must first take time to see if you actually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151312	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151314	But if Austria can, Denmark can too. We are bound by the same conventions, as I know, and it is therefore crucial that the Minister has a positive attitude to his thinking. The Austrian Government coalition has come to the conclusion that this is the only way to deal with it. If you want to integrate those who come into Danish society, it is absolutely essential that there are so few that it is actually possible to integrate them, and since the number is important and the Prime Minister also said in October in his opening speech that the number is important for the success of integration, then it is crucial that we get a tool in practice so that we can bring down the number. And it has to be said that the restrictions that we have jointly carried out so far have not brought down the number to Denmark. The number of asylum seekers for Denmark has continued to increase. So, if we are to bring it down, we need to come up with new tools, and if the Austrian Government coalition stands by the fact that they set a maximum number of asylum seekers who believe they are able to take per. In other words, will the Minister consider positively if they are allowed to do the same for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151416	Yes, but we still have no answer as to whether the proposal is actually contained in the international conventions signed by Austria and signed by us, and that must be a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151431	Then the last one to ask questions, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151435	I attached myself to what the Minister said to Mr. Finn Sørensen, namely that the Enhedslisten might not have contributed in every way to tightening up the immigration policy that we have had and have at the moment, and we can only agree with the Minister on that. But then I would say to the Minister that a good idea is to listen to the Folketing. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned the proposal now being made in Austria, namely that a quota should be made, we might call it, for how many asylum seekers will be taken every year. Would it not be obvious to the government if we wanted to tighten up more, and I understand from the Minister that we would like to say: yes, we will do that in Denmark too, if Austria can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151520	As I have said, I do not know in detail about the Austrian proposal, and I think everything else is right, that we should have a good and thorough look at the proposal before a final position is taken. But I have to say that we have signed a number of conventions, and of course we intend to abide by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151539	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151541	I have sometimes heard from the Minister that we have signed some international conventions, and we intend to comply with them. I have heard that, we have heard it, and the Folketing wants it too. Having said that, however, we can basically choose two paths here in relation to the proposal that has been made in Austria: either one can say that it is probably contrary to the conventions, so we do not want to touch that, or one can contact Austria and establish cooperation with Austria to work for a model like that. Because we have seen that this debate has also shown some gigantic challenges with integration, asylum influx and the like. That is why I think it is obvious that, on behalf of the government, the Minister must be able to say yes to the fact that the model that Austria is apparently making a reality now will be working positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151637	Yes, but with all due respect, I think that the news from Austria has come while we have been sitting here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and so it has not left me with any kind of opportunity to have the proposal looked through as one. And, of course, like the other, it has not allowed me to make contact with Austria, because I am bound to sit in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151659	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 21 January 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151724	In this connection, I should like to inform you that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr under No. 17 questions put to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, Question No. S 501 is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. That question shall be put to oral answer on 3 February 2016. The first question has been put to the Minister for Finance, and that has been asked by Mr Arndt. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. We just need a little more low-noise except from the questioner, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151748	Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151809	I say thank you. The question is simple: how does the Minister feel about some mayors threatening to vote against the next economic agreement with the municipalities, if the Minister does not change his attitude and understanding of the current challenges of the municipalities, such as: Tall Taastrup's mayor, Michael Ziegler, expresses himself on January 14, 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151830	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120151831	As a society, we face a great challenge of receiving and integrating the many refugees that are coming. This applies to our entire society, both the municipalities and the state. The government is doing a lot to keep up with the reception and integration of refugees. First of all, of course, we want to limit the influx to this country, which is why we have introduced the new integration service, and we have implemented a number of asylum restrictions. It concerns residence permits and conditions for asylum seekers and refugees. Secondly, however, we want to make it easier for the municipalities to receive and integrate refugees, and that is why we have invited the municipalities to debate these issues, namely how we can make efforts both better and cheaper. We want to facilitate the major task facing the municipalities through concrete and substantial reductions in order to make integration efforts cheaper, among other things. based on the many proposals made by the municipalities themselves. In addition, until now, Danish society has unfortunately been far too poor to get refugees and immigrants into jobs. Too many people continue their lives in Denmark on public support, and we must do away with that. We would also very much like to discuss this with the municipalities. What may then remain of wishes for discussion of the financial framework for the municipalities will have to wait until the end of spring, when in May we will be negotiating the municipalities' total economy for 2017. But I can then add that, of course, I will not go into internal board matters in KL. I expect KL to speak on behalf of the municipalities when we meet for negotiations in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152035	There are some commentators, as many of them have pointed out in Denmark that the Minister for Finance should have run a little tired and that he needs to be replaced. I would like to say personally that I really do disagree with that. The Minister for Finance knows that too. But another thing that might disprove the urge to think that the Minister for Finance has run a little tired and needs replacement is what happened at the KL meeting in Aalborg. It really must be said that it was not fatigue that was shown by the finance minister. On the contrary, he put the whole House on the other end, since, as we know the Minister of Finance, he not only said, but strongly said that the municipal lamentation song tortures me; it made everyone go up to the ceiling, not least the Conservative Mayor of High Taastrup, who is not just anyone, nor in the Conservative People's Party, he is vice-president and a great man in the municipalities. If you listen to the Minister of Finance now, you have to say that it seems nice to say that there is some disharmony in terms of how you perceive the challenge that you are facing now. The government has promised an immediate slowing down of the influx of asylum... that cannot be said to have really succeeded. However, at the same time as thousands of people are now coming across the country's borders, negative growth has been introduced and a change of priority contribution has been introduced, which means that quite a lot of municipalities are now in a position to make very, very large savings. The municipalities themselves report that if you look at the approach and the consequences that just come from it in 2016, you will see that it is approx. 1,200 educators, 300 of whom need to be set up to keep integration efforts at the current level. How does the Minister of Finance think the municipalities are able to handle this? One thing is that we can make a change here and here, but we also have an interest in integrating those who will then be integrated? Firstly, how does the Minister of Finance think the municipalities should be able to deal with this? Secondly, will the Minister of Finance ensure that the task does not lead to a deterioration in the welfare of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152247	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152248	First of all, I would like to thank you for your kind words and say that Mr. Morten Bødskov is one of those who can keep one awake during long debates, and of course I would like to sign for that. Sir. Morten Bødskov has a special ability to get me into a slightly higher gear, so thank you for that, sir. Morten Bødskov. As far as the task we are facing is concerned, we need to look at the three-year integration process that is currently under way. I myself believe that the process of integration is too long, that we need to invest more on turbodansk at the beginning, and that we must then resolve, what should we say, the obstacle to getting many of these people into the labour market, and that is where we have a common challenge to solve that issue so that we can get some volume in the number of people entering the labour market. And that is what we are going to discuss with the municipalities, but that is also why, in February, we are going to start trialogue discussions with the social partners, where this will be the first thing we are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152404	I would just like to point out that it is only 1⁄2 minutes. It took almost half a minute just to thank Mr. Morten Bødskov for the nice words, but now it's Mr. Bødskov. Morten Bødskov with a comment to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152414	Thanks go the other way. Sometimes, when questions are asked to the Minister of Finance, it is perhaps someone who is affected by fatigue, because there are so many repetitions and so little will to answer the questions that are being asked, so we try again. How can the Minister think that this is a complaint from the municipalities? There is a challenge of historical dimensions. You try to get into dialogue with the government on how to deal with it. It is believed that when you get so many thousands in, it is equivalent to creating a medium-sized municipality in Denmark. This will then be dealt with with with a few corners of changes to some legislation, a slightly changed approach to the integration task, but basically it is a huge challenge for integration and economical a huge task for the municipalities. How do the government and the finance minister feel that this is an expression of a lamentation? And will the government ensure that this task does not propagate and results in real welfare savings in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152515	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152517	Thank you. The starting point for the lively debate in Aalborg was, after all, something other than foreigners. That was for example. also, as Morten Bødskov says, the re-priority contribution. We therefore have a common challenge in ensuring that we can direct resources to where they are most needed. This is, of course, the discussion that I took part in at the meeting of the municipal economic forum. As far as the question of where the money for these things should come from is concerned, I would just like to say that the first priority for us is to get these people to work, because if they do not get to work, then the calculations that can be made, I think, are very, very heavy into a long lifecycle on public support ending with a retirement pension. That is why it is important to discuss and discuss with the social partners and with the municipalities how we find mechanisms that enable people to get to work quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152623	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152625	But it is a little amazing that the Minister of Finance can continue to answer the question. Michael Ziegler, Conservative Mayor of the municipality of Høje-Taastrup, has said that if the municipalities need to find more money, in addition to what they already need to find to cover the areas that are pressing locally, they will be raw savings, raw savings, on the service. It's like the Minister of Finance lives in his own world. I am aware that it is very thick walls that are over in the Ministry of Finance's red building every now and then, but how can the Minister of Finance think that this is a complaints song from the municipalities? And will the Minister of Finance ensure that the exercise now under way, which is not just 2016 when the task is huge, but which also applies to 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, etc., does not propagate and turn into real welfare degradation in the municipalities for children, for the elderly, in the areas of prevention and on the health part that lies in the municipalities, and in other municipal welfare areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152728	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152729	I do not have to hide the fact that the task we are facing is a huge challenge for Danish society. I just have to make it clear that there are no easy solutions to what we are in here. A picture is being created that you can solve the challenge by just taking some money somewhere, but we cannot. We only have the money at our disposal that the Danes have paid in taxes, and we can only spend it once. That is why I have to say that the framework for the public economy is established by the Finance Act 2016 and by the agreements concluded with the municipalities and regions. That is why there will be a task in getting the ends to stick together, but we have the same task in the state, and that is what was also one of my points up there: the one it first hits is the state. The things the municipalities are talking about, the many people who came here at the end of the year, are, after all, some who will only later be transferred to the municipalities. So we have time to negotiate how to make it cheaper and how to find lasting solutions to these things. But we have to take things in the right order. The right order is to limit the flow and see if we can make it cheaper, and then in May and June we will discuss the financial framework for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152856	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. I would point out once again that there are 1⁄2 minutes to both questions and answers. The next question has been put to the Minister for Finance by Mr Gundelach. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. And there's a co-questioner, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152914	Thank you. And I even think I can do it faster than 30 seconds. Will the Minister explain what he defines as the jammer he supposedly hears from the country's municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152924	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120152926	Thank you for the question. I have looked up in the Danish dictionary what jamming means, and that means: expressing pain, grief or dissatisfaction in the form of complaints, complaints or the like. Then you can ask where the word comes from. And it comes from the German language, where it was called Jamar, and that meant expelling complaining noises. After all, there was a discussion about the re-priority contribution and there was a discussion about refugees, and I would just like to say that we are facing a common challenge. It is not the case that there are different parts that have to deal with different things. We share it; we have the state, we have the municipalities and we have the regions. After all, we share that challenge, and we must do so by looking at: what are the rules? Can we loosen the rules for housing placement, for reception classes, etc.? When we have then looked at whether we can cheapen it, we will have to sit down for the municipal negotiations in May and say: What does that mean for the economy in 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153059	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153059-2	Thank you to the Minister of Finance for a review of how this is really to be understood by the jam he thinks he has heard from the municipalities. I understand that this is a complaint in many ways, as the Minister for Finance has heard from a number of mayors, including the mayors of the Left. And although I personally have suffered a soft spot for the Minister of Finance, it is my impression that it really got the Left Mayors in the red field. They did not think that it was a fair term for the incredibly difficult situation facing all 98 mayors of the country, namely that there is cross-pressure, where, on the one hand, there is a re-priority contribution and, at the same time, there is a very, very great refugee challenge. This is then tried in the best way, but has not been able to get through to the Minister of Finance. That's how you have to understand it. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance today: in relation to the statements made by the Minister for Finance in Aalborg that there were only complaints from the municipalities, I assume, as a matter of course, that the Minister for Finance will confirm today that this is also his view in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153222	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153223	When I used the term jam, it is of course a question of whether a re-priority contribution automatically leads to worse service for citizens. I am convinced that great efficiency gains can continue to be realised in the municipalities by learning from each other. And in my opinion, the re-prioritisation contribution creates a positive pressure for efficiency, which, of course, allows us to give priority to cross-sectoral interventions. That is what this is all about so that we can strengthen the citizen-centred service. In my opinion, it is clear that we need to make demands on each other to be able to make the most of our tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153317	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153319	It was a very classic and, it is tempting to say, subdued way of replying on the part of the Minister of Finance. It seems that the Minister for Finance has decided that he will not say anything at all today that can upset anyone. And that, of course, is a worthy attitude. But the Minister for Finance did not answer my question. My question is whether the Minister for Finance stands by the statements made by the Minister for Finance in Aalborg, and thus also that it is a lamentation heard from the municipalities. Is that still the position of the Minister of Finance, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153358	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153359	Well, first of all, allow me, I'll say to Mr. Knox. Nicolai Wammen, to put down the myth that the municipalities have received less money. That is also something that the author's party has been carrying around with it. The fact is that with the 2016 Economics and Finance Act, we have lifted the municipal service by 0.5 billion. kr. And the local authorities' expenditure on refugees mainly concerns transfer costs, which are fully financed by reimbursements and subsidies, etc. In addition, the municipalities have a number of service costs for day-to-day services, primary school and receiving classes, and in 2016 these costs will have to be incurred within the framework of the barely 240 billion. kr., as the government has agreed. It is precisely at the heart of the framework management of the municipalities that it is up to the municipalities themselves to give priority, and it is on this basis that we have concluded a municipal agreement. That is also why an extraordinary integration grant of 325 million has been agreed. kr., which goes beyond general funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153526	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the speaking time is still only 1⁄2 minutes. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153537	After all, there were a number of reactions to the Minister of Finance's statement about jamming up in Aalborg. Among other things: was the minister called arrogant and tone-deaf, and for the sake of good order, I better define the concept of tone-deaf. It has two meanings according to the dictionary. One is that one is completely unmusical, and the other is the transferred meaning, namely that one is without discernment, without empathy or without self-criticism. I am not going to define which of the two meanings covers in relation to the statements that have been made by the Minister for Finance. But I would like to get an answer to the question that Mr. Nicolai Wammen asked before, namely whether the Minister of Finance is sticking to his statements from Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153628	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153629	So, I have to repeat, and I know that the Socialists love repetitions. They ask the same thing all the time, and I answer the same thing all the time. If you want answers to other questions, you have to start formulating some other questions. The fact is that we have implemented and have to make a re-priority contribution, and there have been many long discussions on this. However, we cannot have a public sector that is cast in concrete so that we cannot also move funds between the various sectors. That is, of course, the content of a re-prioritisation contribution. In my opinion, therefore, the public sector must also learn that there is a need for continuous efficiency. I often think about how many businesses could survive if they said: we cannot make things more efficient, we have reached the ideal state of things. I think they'd face a harsh fate because there's constant pressure. And I believe that we owe it to the taxpayers to ensure that they receive more money all the time. I think I have sensed that there is a discussion going on that we have, as it were, reached a level where we have found the eternal, completely true balance and that nothing more can be done. And that's just what I'm so opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153756	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153758	There is nothing to say about asking the same question over and over again when the Minister does not answer the question. But we cannot then get an answer as to whether the minister still thinks that the municipalities are wailing. We can then consider that further. But could the Minister not then confirm that it is the case that since the agreement mentioned by the Minister was made, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? Nicolai Wammen before about the extraordinary grant to the municipalities for the integration effort, has the number to be received by the municipalities in 2016 actually been adjusted upwards from 12,000 to 17,000? This is the figure that was reported out in December 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153840	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153841	What I'm trying to do is sort of take things in the right order. And I do not want to be misunderstood on this point: I also think it is a great challenge. It is a major challenge for the municipalities; it is a major challenge for the state that the number of asylum seekers and the number of asylum seekers is increasing as much as it does. There should be no doubt about that. But we have to take things in the right order, and the right order is: point 1, first to limit the flow, and point 2, to look at whether we can make the effort cheaper, and whether we can soften some of the rules that make it possible to find cheaper solutions in the municipalities, and point 3, that once we have gone along that path, we look at what the economy looks like. And that's what we've been up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153930	Then it's mr. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120153935	Now the Minister for Finance has spoken black the three or four times he has been asked a very simple question: does the Minister for Finance say yes or no by his statements in Aalborg? I would like to give the Minister for Finance a chance to reply to that again, and at the same time I would like to ask the Minister for Finance a question, namely whether it is the statements made by the Minister for Finance in Aalborg that apply or whether it is the Prime Minister here in Parliament yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154008	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154010	With the ministerial experience that Mr. Nicolai Wammen has and has had over the years, I just want to say that then Mr. Nicolai Wammen well that the PM's statement is exactly the right statement. So, sir... Nicolai Wammen doesn't care. In other words, when I expressed it with grief, as I said before, it is about whether a re-prioritisation contribution automatically leads to worse service for citizens, and there I am therefore convinced that there is still potential in the municipalities and in the public sector to get more out of tax dollars. That is the discussion that I would very much like to see started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154053	Thank you. That was the end of the question. The next question has been put to the Minister for Finance, and it has also been asked by Mr Van den Broek. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154102	The question is: Does the Minister agree with the Mayor of West Himmerland, Knud Kristensen (KF), when he says that when we always complain and always lack money, it is because more and more of us are required by the state. That is why I also believe that Claus Hjort, whom I respect, should come out and realize the state of affairs. And he himself said on TV that there is a lack of money in the municipalities. This isn't something we're just whining about... it's really serious and a real problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154133	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154135	Municipalities play a crucial role in dealing with the extraordinary refugee situation. The efforts of the municipalities are a prerequisite for the success of integration efforts, and the government therefore also wants to ensure that the municipalities are able to keep up with the reception of refugees and family members, while at the same time refugees get into employment as soon as possible and contribute to society. How we so forward-lookingly tackle these challenges together is the government's first priority, and that is why we have invited municipalities to a dialogue on how we can make efforts both better and cheaper through concrete and significant easing of the municipalities' integration tasks, and how we can ensure an integration effort that leads to employment. That is what is my main concern and what is the task, so that we must ensure that they get into employment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154244	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154247	Now the Finance Minister said that it was mostly Social Democrats who criticised him, but although we see it as a task to be critical opposition, it has not, however, reached the heights that have been heard from the Left Mayor Corps on top of the statements made by the Finance Minister in Aalborg, which he has not wanted to withdraw today. A mayor who is very, very recognized and who also has long experience, namely Lars Krarup from Herning, has even gone so far as to say: "I am extremely tired of having a finance minister with such an arrogant approach to municipal government. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Finance is very simple: does the Minister for Finance agree with Lars Krarup, Herning's mayor, that the Minister for Finance has an arrogant approach to municipal government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154343	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154345	I have a great deal of respect for the municipal government, and I fully agree that what should apply to the municipalities is objective and framework management. There must be room for the municipalities to give priority to their efforts. When I have then worked for a re-priority contribution and I have discussed these things with the municipalities, it is based on the belief that things can be done both better and cheaper in a large number of cases. That is why I have repeatedly stressed that the public sector cannot and should not be cast in concrete, so that money cannot be transferred from one sector to another sector, depending on where it is needed and where the money is most beneficial, and that is the discussion that I keep with the municipalities. My guess is that my predecessor has had the same discussion with the municipalities, i.e. how we get as much welfare as possible for the money, and that is the task we have to solve together, and that is what is a bound mandate. That is why I take hold every time someone says that nothing can be changed in Danish society. I think it has to be said that if nothing can be changed, we will lose something in our welfare and our ability to make money for the country and secure jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154519	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154521	I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who believes that everything should be cast in concrete, at least we do not do so by the Socialist side. We must always be better at using the resources that are out there in our municipalities, but what this discussion is all about is whether we have a finance minister in this country who really understands the depth of the challenges that you are facing out there, the pressure that you are under, on the one hand because of the re-priority contribution and, on the other hand, because of the many refugees that are coming. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Finance is really whether it makes an impression when a member of the National Association of Municipalities, who is a very prominent Mayor of the Left here in Denmark, is one of those who has received the most votes among the mayors of the Left, and, as far as I know, he is also one of those who is usually listened to in the Left Party without any reservations and with no smile on his lips, going out and saying that the Minister for Finance's approach to municipal government is arrogant. Is it something that, when you sit over behind the thick walls of the ministry, you think about and say: there he had a point? Or is it something you just wave around? Does the Minister have the impression that he is called arrogant by the chief mayors of a Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154645	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154647	Of course, you always have to think about how to appear... but you have to acknowledge that we have different roles here in society, depending on where we sit. As Finance Minister, I see it as my role to ensure that there is a balance in the economy and that we do not spend more money than we have, etc., but, of course, that we get as much as possible for the tax dollars we collect. Of course, it would have been better if, as a minister, every time someone wanted more money, they could say: just come here, we have money. Unfortunately, however, the situation in the Danish economy is such that there are not many free funds and that the pressure on public spending everywhere is very great. What I see as a major challenge in the political task is that, although in society as a whole the economy is going very well, unemployment has fallen, employment is rising, inflation is low, interest rates are low, oil prices are low, so the economy of people is going well. Unfortunately, the public economy is under pressure, among other things. Indeed, because we are losing many billions because of the low price of oil. That is why there is the challenge that I just do not have bags full of money that I can spend, and that is why the pressure is, first and foremost, that we ensure that the money we spend is given as much as possible currency for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154830	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154832	Now it is not only Lars Krarup, the mayor of Herning, who has turned his guns on the Finance Minister, because Kolding's mayor, Jørn Pedersen, who is also a prominent Leftman, does so too. He says directly: I would very much like to give him that one must understand is the Minister of Finance invitation to come to Kolding and experience the municipal reality, for he has obviously not understood the municipal challenge. How does it feel like the country's finance minister, with all these heavy burdens on his shoulders, as one must understand that the Minister of Finance is standing by that he has a mayor's corps in the Left, who says he is arrogant and has not understood what the reality is? I just want to say that I personally do not regard the Minister for Finance as arrogant. We may disagree on how reality is connected, but these are party colleagues who are making such a harsh criticism, and they are people to whom the Minister of Finance listens. So what impression does it make when Kolding's mayor says that the Minister of Finance has lost control of reality while Herning's mayor says that the Minister of Finance is arrogant?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154943	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120154945	That tells me first of all that there is a task in explaining the state of the public economy. The fact that we are losing many billions because of the low oil prices means that we are missing many billions in taxes and taxes and that there is no money I can just take up from the drawer. And there I have to say that I have a great job to do in explaining and trying to understand that there is no free money and that there is no possibility of just saying that we are going to break loose. And I know that this is not about breaking loose and that there is real pressure on the municipalities. But that is the case in all sectors of the public sector. It is there in the regions because medicines are becoming more expensive and the methods of treatment are becoming more expensive and more expensive. Now, because so many asylum seekers are coming, but indeed there is also a loss of revenue on the state, which also receives a great deal of additional costs in connection with the many asylum applications.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155100	Thank you, sir. Nicolai Wammen, and that was the end of Question 3. Then we go to Question 4 and it is put to the Minister for Finance, and that is what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155110	I read the question: Does the Minister agree with the chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, Martin Dam, when he says to Ritzau on 14 January 2016 that in September KL and the government made a follow-up to the summer economic agreement, where the parties added a passage stating that in the field of integration an economic review will be carried out by January 2016 and will the Minister explain what he understands by an economic review?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155141	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155142	The government and the National Association of Municipalities agreed in September that we would carry out a review of the economy in the field of integration. Among other things, it has to be done. is seen in the light of the fact that funding in the field of integration with grants, with foreigners equalisation, with reimbursement, etc. is a very complex system. In concrete terms, it was therefore agreed that the way in which the municipalities' integration costs have been financed, including the funding through the current performance grants and basic grants, is also reflected in the text of the agreement made at the time. This is therefore a review of the financing of the area of integration, which therefore also naturally takes place under the auspices of the Finance Committee of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, where KL is also firmly represented. However, it has not been agreed that the municipal service framework for 2016 should be renegotiated. The 2016 service framework is, according to customary practice, established with the agreement reached this summer between the Government and KL. Work on the financing is still under way and with the active participation of KL in cooperation with other ministries. And I can tell you that the work is expected to be completed here in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155310	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155311	Thank you. First of all, of course, it is worth noting that, on the previous question, the Minister of Finance confirmed that, in relation to the question of whether the municipalities are wailing or not, it is the Prime Minister who has spoken on behalf of the government, and the Minister of Finance agrees with that. I think we have perhaps overlooked this recognition, in other words that the government does not think that the municipalities are wailing. Maybe it's very good just to send that signal out. There may of course be a few municipal representatives to follow this debate. I fully recognise that the municipalities and the state have a major challenge when it comes to integration efforts. If I remember the figures right in the head, we will have to use an estimate from the government in the order of 48 billion. kr. in the period 2016-2019 in the field of integration, provided that the forecasts relating to asylum seekers are accurate. And, as both the Minister for Finance and other ministers have explained, there is a great deal of uncertainty about this for obvious reasons. I also understand very well that this is a very complex system when working on these areas. Therefore, first of all, I think it would be useful if the Minister of Finance could confirm what I asked about earlier, namely that 5,000 more refugees are actually expected in the municipalities in 2016 than was taken into account when the agreement was originally negotiated with the municipalities.The new figures were only reported out in December 2015 and also whether the Minister of Finance can confirm that it will, of course, have some implications in relation to the municipalities' efforts in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155511	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155512	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialists for their earnest efforts to reconcile us in the Left and to ensure that the debate takes place politely and properly between us. Thank you very, very much for your hard work. Then there is the question of the economy and the extra refugees that are coming. It is true that we have lifted the forecast for 2016. But Mr. Benny Engelbrecht must also be aware that it takes some time before you come from the asylum-seeking phase and are placed in the municipalities. So it will take some time before additional expenditure hits the municipalities. That is why it is very, very logical that we should now first try to limit our approach to Denmark; then we will look at how we can cheapen integration and make it more flexible; and then we will take the third stage, because when we come in May, we will look at the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155620	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155621	This debate we have is based on the fact that the municipalities are clearly demanding a government and a finance minister who is facing reality. Before that, Mr. Nicolai Wammen the invitation that has come from Kolding's mayor to come out and look at reality. It is also no secret that other mayors, such as Søren Steen Andersen from Assen's Municipality, including the Mayor of the Left, have said that the accusation that they are being accused of wailing over the costs of refugees and wanted more money does not change the fact that they are simply pointing out the reality. So my question is: is it not a quite relevant wish from the municipalities that the minister and the government should be asked to face up to reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155711	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155712	What I have been saddened by in this discussion is that it has appeared as if we have committed a breach of promise in relation to the municipalities. There I just have to refer to the conciliation text. For what we agreed was to look at the financing system in order to identify the entire funding side in the area of integration, including how the performance grants and the basic grant are distributed to the municipalities. It's a pretty complicated exercise. It runs here in January and, as I said before, the work ends here in January, where we have a result of it so that we can see whether the system is working properly today. In this respect, of course, we are prepared to look at any proposals to adjust funding within the current framework if the lookout proves that it would be appropriate. But for me it is crucial that we take things in the right order; that we look at limiting the approach; that we see whether we can make the task more flexible and cheap by changing the rules for housing placement, changing the rules for reception classes, etc. Once we get these things in place, we sit down in May and look at the service framework and see how we can agree on the framework for next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155842	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155843	I am not going to make myself an overjudge as to whether the municipalities or the finance minister are most right in interpreting the agreement that was made, and I am not going to interfere in such a discussion as to whether it is a breach or not. The Left will have to deal with that internally. What I note is that one might have been part of this debate in addition to having had a more sober dialogue and a more sober tone. And then I can at least say that if there is a place where there is a challenge in this government, it is with regard to the immediate slowing down that has been promised to the Danes and the electorate. At least that has not been met. So my question should therefore just be this simple one: will the Minister go out to the municipalities and experience reality, among other things. With the invitation that's come from Kolding?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155930	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120155933	Now, Mr. Knox... Benny Engelbrecht, I would like to say here that I dare not even think about how things would have turned out if we had not rolled back all the concessions made by the previous government. I dare not think about how things would have turned out if, in the asylum phase too, we could just get up and work. Our problems would be tenfold what they are today. As far as what we said about immediate braking was concerned, it was a brake on what the previous government had relaxed, and we have achieved that aim. One could then say that we should have had supernatural abilities and foreseen exactly the flow of refugees that suddenly swept across Europe. But it is probably too much to ask that we as the only ones should have seen that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160033	Thank you. That was the end of Question 4. We are going to deal with Question 5, which is also for the Minister of Finance of Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160048	I read out the question: Does the Minister agree with the President of KL, Martin Damm, the Left, when this one is quoted at Ritzau on 14 January 2016 as saying that the Minister of Finance photoshops with reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160106	No, I don't agree with that. First of all, I would like to stress that there are some figures in what the President of the KL says. He refers to the number of asylum seekers at the beginning of 2015. That is what he refers to, and thus not estimated how many new refugees the municipalities are expected to receive in 2016. Secondly, the government and KL concluded an economic agreement for 2016 on the basis that the municipalities should receive extraordinary numbers of refugees. The municipality agreement shows several times that it is based on the fact that Denmark should receive extraordinary amounts. That is why we have already adjusted our estimates for future transfer costs, such as the costs of the integration service, and therefore an exceptionally high estimate was included in the economic agreement for the number of new refugees, an estimate which we, and I would like to emphasise this, agreed with the National Association of Municipalities. In addition, the government and KL agreed to translate 125 million. kr. in 2016 for investments in the municipalities, and now I quote from the agreement, as a result of an exceptionally high number of refugees and family members in the municipalities, and we agreed that the municipalities are granted an extraordinary integration grant of 200 million. kr. in 2016 to deal with the exceptionally high number of refugees. So it was in our discussions at the time that there was an extraordinarily high number.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160257	After all, it is difficult to talk about a concept such as photoshopping, which, to put it bluntly, the Minister of Finance himself has had immense difficulty in defining. We can understand that photoshopping is certainly not flicking some figures, because we have had a long-standing yes, in fact several consultations with the finance minister, where it was clearly argued that when the finance minister accused the previous government of having photoshopping, it was certainly not because the previous government had in any way tampered with some of the figures. So if there are some who sit and think: I wonder what it really means when Martin Damm, the chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, accuses the Minister of Finance of photoshopping, then I can really understand that there are common misunderstandings about this. But there the Minister for Finance must be the first to be able to define it, as long as it was the Minister for Finance who came up with the phrase. Well, my question is a little more serious. After all, we know from the conclusion of the Finance Act that, prior to the final Finance Act, there was in fact a very explicit figure in the Finance Act of 25,000, which we in Denmark would expect to receive from refugees in 2016. As you know, it was pulled out. This is clearly described in e.g. Jyllands-Posten. And I am thinking very much about whether there is such an approach on the part of the government to try to hide the relatively high costs that we must expect there to come over the coming years, for example 48 billion. kr., as I said earlier, as the total expenses are expected to be in the period from 2016 to 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160500	When I used the term photoshop, it was about the previous government's forecasts, where you had 39 good billions that you could use in the election campaign, where you could travel around and promise one thing and the other and it later turned out that there wasn't that money. I do not think it is the same thing I do, because what I am saying must be almost the opposite of photoshopping. For I say: there is no money and we face a common challenge because there is no money I can just pull out of the drawer. So I don't know. Well, I don't see it as drawing the picture uglier than it is. I'm just trying to be objective. But I think that the comparison with photoshopping is a little off, because I don't think I'm doing much to beautify the picture. On the contrary, I am also trying to make the Socialists understand that there are therefore economic realities that we need to face up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160610	It is quite true that there is no 39 billion. kr. in scope until 2020. The Minister for Finance has quite clearly answered that question. There's 42.5 billion. kr. in space. But when the minister talks about the fact that you might actually try to do the opposite, that is to say make the picture worse, it leads me to quote Morten Andersen, who is the mayor of the Left on Nordfyn, who says: "It's fine that Claus Hjort And frankly, it's a little hollow. We have just been good at making things more efficient. Better than the state, too. ▪ Does the Minister agree that the municipalities have actually done a great deal to go down that road?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160657	I fully agree with that. A great deal of effort has been made in recent years to get more for tax dollars, and it is also natural in a situation where the money is scarce that you have an obligation to see how you can get more for money. And it is not only the municipalities that have made it more efficient. The regions have also made some very, very large improvements in their efficiency, thus making better use of resources. So it just needs to be a big acknowledgment of that. It's just that the process doesn't stop here. We need to work constantly with efficiency improvements. If I am to refresh Benny Engelbrecht's memory, I can say that the previous government had the goal of obtaining 12 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Then the government where Mr. Benny Engelbrecht was a minister, so he had the same ambition to streamline and thereby free up resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160804	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Morten Bødskov, the Social Democrats. It's 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160809	Thank you. A little good has come out of these questions today. We have got the Minister of Finance to admit that it is important to be aware of how to appear and act when speaking for the municipalities. So little good has come of it. But what I simply do not think the municipalities can understand is that one can have a finance minister who can face such a huge economic challenge as it is, in the chair of the most important annual economic meeting in the municipalities before the municipal economic negotiations and accuse people of wailing and telling them that their lamentation torment tortures the finance minister. What I think people do not understand, the people who fight day in and day out in order to provide a proper service to citizens, is paragraph 1, that a picture is left of the fact that every penny is not reversed. It does, and it is turned several times. And paragraph 2 they have a finance minister who is attacking them for it and then with the other hand gives great tax relief to the very wealthiest homeowners, great tax relief to those who have and intend to buy the largest cars, and not least great tax relief to the richest part of Danish business. That is what I think the municipalities do not understand. That is just what they find difficult to explain to Mrs Jensen or Mr. Hansen, whether in a nursing home, in a hospital or in a day care center. That is why they believe that the Minister of Finance is putting up with reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120160940	But I would like to say to Mr. Morten Bødskov, that's where we have a common challenge. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Morten Bødskov agrees that we still need to streamline and simplify rules, debureaucratise and ensure that we get as much money as possible. When I sit and look at such key figures for the municipalities, I can see that some municipalities spend more than DKK 100,000. per children in primary school every year, and there are other municipalities that spend some and fifty thousand kroner each year per year. primary school student. I think it is possible to say without going into trouble that we cannot demonstrate that there is a connection, so those who spend the most money per person. student, achieves the best results. We can see when we look at the administrative costs per year. 1.000 inhabitants that there are major differences. That is how I could take area by area and review and demonstrate that there is an efficiency potential. That's kind of what's my business in this whole situation. That is why the discussion on the re-priority contribution is a necessary discussion that we have, because it will be a requirement for us in the coming years, so far as we can see that every year we are making it more efficient. It's a condition we live under, and that's why it's a strange tune, sir. Morten Bødskov has taken action by saying that we have got the ideal state here. If anyone wants to shake it, they've misunderstood everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161125	I almost feel that I am where I stood 5-6 years ago, because the Minister for Finance was also Minister for Finance at the time, and he says exactly the same thing. After all, no one disagrees with the fact that every crown has to be turned and also like a second time to make sure we have got it out of it we can get it out of. But what is not agreed, and that is what the Minister of Finance is talking about, is when there are such huge challenges for the municipalities as there are, not only this year, but almost as far as this area is concerned, that the municipalities find it very difficult to understand why people are criticized for jam and complaining, give homeowners and car owners and the richest part of the business top tax relief and at the same time impose even greater problems on the municipalities by, for example, saving housing benefits for our vulnerable pensioners. When the Minister for Finance can stand up and say that what you say and the concerns you raise is an expression of lamentation and lamentation, then I understand the municipalities when they say that the Minister for Finance must live in a completely different world. In the books they are sitting with, there is a big minus, which is not just due to the government's negative growth and re-priority contributions and tax cuts and everything else to the richest in our society, but due to the fact that there are huge problems in making things stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161248	I don't know, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Morten Bødskov, how I'm supposed to understand that attack on tax relief. Does that mean that sir... Morten Bødskov thinks it was a mistake when the previous government carried out a major tax reform to lower corporate tax? Does he think that a disservice was actually done to Danish society and that one should have failed to do so? Well, I can only understand sir. Morten Bødskov's intervention here as a strong rejection of the policy of the previous government. That's weird to listen to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161322	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. It's the main questioner again. Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161328	I can confirm that the previous government made some excellent tax reforms that were linked. However, I can also confirm that the current opposition, in the form of the Social Democratic Party, has sent the very clear message to the government that consideration of tax reform must be postponed simply because there are so many unknown factors associated with the costs of refugees and integration not only in the municipalities but in society at all. So if nothing else has come out of this questioning round, then at least that message is repeated from here: postpone that consideration indefinitely. And then I am glad that it is the Prime Minister who is in charge of the government and that we have made it clear that the municipalities are not wailing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161418	Well, then I can be happy. If sir... Benny Engelbrecht is happy, so there are two of us, and perhaps he is. Morten Bødskave it too, and then the three of us are really happy about this exchange of views. But that does not take away the task we are facing, namely to ensure that we get the money and that we have to have more for our tax dollars, because there is no free money, and that is the common task we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161447	Thank you to the minister and ask. We go to the next question, which is Question 6. It's for the Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing Ministers. The questioner is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161507	Where will the Minister encourage the 13 000 single parents to move to, as a result of the government's ceiling on cash benefits, the risk of no longer being able to afford to stay in their current housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161529	Let me begin by making clear what the reason for the government's desire to reduce the benefits is. It is quite simple that the total benefits a cash benefit recipient can receive are so high that there are too many in the target group who have no significant gain from getting to work, and that is simply not good. It must, of course, be worthwhile to work rather than to be on public support, and I hope that the questioner will agree with me on this. It is asked where and how I would encourage the 13,000 single parents to move when, as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits, they are at risk of losing their homes. The premiss for the questioner is that lower benefits automatically lead to the loss of one's home, or at least that there is a risk of it, and the premise is, in my view, simply not right. Most often, there is no single explanation for letting tenants out of their homes. Studies carried out by the SFI show that this is typically a complex coincidence of several unfortunate factors, such as: that there is no control over the private economy, but also mental problems, abuse, divorce and other things. Of course, it is not very fun to get a lower performance, and it will not be a life of rush and dus. The intention then is not simply to take note of it. Let me make one thing clear, and that is that the aim of lower benefits is for more people to become self-sufficient, for them to enter the labour market. The accommodation is absolutely essential for a well-functioning everyday life, and especially when it comes to families with children. Therefore, the municipalities also have both an obligation and an opportunity to intervene early, so that we avoid the postponements that we are talking about here. But there is also a duty for the individual to seek to adapt his household consumption to the financial capacity that he has. And we have a high level of performance in Denmark, but it must not be so high that it maintains too many outside the labour market. So the aim of the lower social benefits is to get more people into employment, get an income from work and thus also an opportunity to pay their own rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161821	Thank you for some interesting answers. It is, in fact, legitimate enough, although I do not agree that the Minister does not recognise the premise for the question, but it is not, in fact, figures that I have stood and pulled out of my side legs. This comes both from the consultation responses from the National Association of Municipalities and from BL • Danmarks Generale Holidays, both of which estimate that the ceiling for cash benefits, i.e.: both lower housing benefits and the 225-hour rule will lead to significantly more delays in housing. And if, at the same time, you also look at the context and how the number of deferrals increased through the 00s and in fact began to decrease quite drastically actually from 2011 until 2014 by 28%, then you can well conclude that there is some connection between lower benefits and more deferrals. The Minister says that the intention is for more people to get to work, and therefore my question is: how does the Minister see the link between the proposal for a ceiling on cash benefits only following the Ministry of Employment's assessment to put 650 more people into employment, while in reality it is 13,000 especially single people with children who are at risk of being hit so hard on the economy that they may be exposed by their housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120161939	Now I think we should see these three elements in a context, because I think they are very close to each other, i.e. that there is a low level of benefit, that we have a ceiling on cash aid, but at least we also have a 225-hour rule. In my opinion, the 225-hour rule is one of the best and most important ways of getting more women, especially immigrant women, into the labour market. That is a really, very good argument for entering the labour market, because otherwise you could stand to lose your integration benefit or cash benefits depending on where you are in the system. Therefore, I do not think that, in isolation, one of these parameters can be taken out, for example. The ceiling on cash benefits must be seen in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162030	I fully agree that things need to be seen in a context. What we also just have to relate to is the context that really, very many people who are on cash benefits • and this is also what the National Association of Municipalities writes in their consultation answer • in advance, because they are often assigned by the municipality to live in public apartments with high rents, have high rents and thus also additional housing insurance needs. Therefore, before we adopt it here in the Folketing, we must also consider what to do with the 13,000 singles with children who will have an average annual reduction in income of 2200 DKK. After tax, then, so much money that you can no longer pay your rent. What are we gonna do with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162120	It may well be that the questioner is now saying that it is appropriate to see things in context, but that does not change the fact that the questioner just took out one element and only used it. So, as the questioner says, you have to do just that in a context. Having said that, I actually think that the SFI report that I referred to is absolutely crucial in this, because it describes precisely that it is not just a question of performance but also a question of many other things. Because if you are exposed by your home, it is usually because there are other things that are problematic in your life, for example. that you have mental problems, for example. that you have no control over your private finances at all. That's why you have to look at these things in a context. The municipalities also have an opportunity to do so. This is the kind of thing that I think it is important that we focus both on, but of course we also discuss with each other whether we can do even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162230	In conclusion, I would just like to say that I am fully in favour of seeing things in a context, but that does not change the fact that there is also a clear link with the reduction of the benefit. We looked through the '00s with the then government, of which the Minister was also a part at that time. At that time, there were lower benefits, poverty benefits and so on. When the then SR government abolished them, there was a very sharp reduction in the number of delays. I am of the opinion that in the whole bouquet of problems that the Minister may be right to play together, I do not think it helps to be put on the street and not have a roof over your head. It's just what I'm calling for from the government, because what on earth are we gonna do with these many people, who both the National Association of Municipalities and the housing companies warn about risking being without a roof over their heads once this hits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162327	Yes, but then it is very important to see things in a context • also in relation to the SFI report that has come. And again, as I said in my opening answer, I simply do not recognise the premise. I fully agree that integration benefits are certainly not a benefit that means that you will live a life of sus and dus, but you are not supposed to be on integration benefits either. The idea is to enter the labour market so that you become part of what you could call the ordinary Danish everyday life, and so that you know about the ordinary Danish everyday life, about the values, the foundation of freedoms that we have built Denmark on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162414	We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and it is also by the same question, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162423	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162424	Thank you. It comes in beautiful extension of the previous one. Does the Minister intend to take any steps to help the 13 000 single parents who, with the government's ceiling on cash benefits, are at risk of losing their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162438	Yes, it comes in directly beautiful extension of the previous one, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said. And as my answer to the previous question showed, I simply do not agree with the point of view of the question. The aim of lower benefits is for more people to become self-supporting, that is to say, to have to enter the labour market so that you can pay your own rent. In my view, there is simply no direct resemblance between lower benefits and more delays. In recent years, municipalities have been given a number of instruments which, overall, ensure an earlier and more targeted effort for tenants threatened with postponement. An up-to-date guide on the obligations and opportunities of municipalities to exposed or exposed tenants is in fact also on the stairs. This guidance shows, inter alia, that the non-profit housing organisations must inform the municipality, at the same time as a matter of rent maintenance is sent to the court; that there is an accelerated assessment obligation for municipalities in deferral cases, especially for children's families; that the possibility of moving aid is extended so that moving aid can be granted to tenants who move from a relatively expensive accommodation to a cheaper accommodation; that in some cases the municipality can offer assistance for the administration of rent payments; and, finally, that it is possible for the municipality to grant a new resident deposit loan so that the deferred tenant can adapt its housing consumption. In addition, a number of experiments have been launched with advanced counselling in non-profit housing organisations, in which particular advice is given on managing the economy and securing rent payments. Both this year and next year, interest pool funds have been set aside for further projects on such advanced advice for deferred tenants. Moreover, the advance advice seems to be very effective, which is not so surprising, precisely in view of the fact that eight out of ten vulnerable tenants in the 2008 SFI study on deferrals, as I mentioned earlier, have stated that they are having difficulty managing their economy. In view of this, it is my opinion that no further measures are currently needed to prevent the postponement of tenants, but of course I am following this area very closely, because I am well aware of the importance of housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162733	I have always learned that we must start with praise, so first of all I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister will follow this area very, very closely. But then let me try to reverse the question, because yesterday I spent at least several hours of my time in this Chamber, when we were discussing freezing the land, and there I could, among other things. the Minister's ministerial colleague, the Minister for Taxation, and rapporteurs from a large number of the parties which form the parliamentary basis of the Minister's government, say that it was necessary to freeze the ground debt because we could not have people having to leave house and home and that we could not have people standing with their family in the rain and becoming homeless. In this way they admitted, as a premise, that a lower disposable income in the form of higher ground debt would mean that people had to leave home and home. It's about the same situation that many of these cash aid recipients are in. So what I just want to ask is: does the Minister see that there is a connection, and does the Minister agree with his colleague of ministers, on the one hand, and the rapporteurs from the parties on the parliamentary basis of the government, on the other, that this actually means something, so that when you get less money at your disposal, you are also at greater risk of being exposed from your home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162850	Unfortunately, I did not hear the debate that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen took part yesterday, and bitter experience in this Chamber has simply taught me that it is not necessarily necessary to take note of reports from actors in a debate and then simply to discuss them. Having said that, I would say that there is at least one crucial difference, and it is that if you rent a dwelling you can dispose of it, but it is not certain that you can dispose of your dwelling if you own it. Everything else just makes it easier to quit your home and then for example. try to find a cheaper apartment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120162935	I understand that part too. But the scenario was actually the situation where one simply could not afford to pay off one's debts or afford to pay one's taxes, etc. But let it go. The minister also said before that in close cooperation with the municipalities, you try to have different strategies and schemes, etc., and the municipalities themselves say "and now I read up from their consultation response to the question of introducing a cash-aid ceiling" that the bill is expected to lead to more postponements and therefore also more homeless people, which is contrary to the government's own 2020 social objective of reducing the number of homeless people. The municipalities don't say that for fun. It is, of course, because they see a clear link between the fact that 13,000, perhaps even 14,000, if you take the 225-hour rule, will have such a sharp fall in their disposable income that probably many of them end up leaving their homes. What is the Minister's position on the KL's response to the hearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163037	I have to say that when KL sends a hearing answer, I do not have to agree entirely with everything that is in such a hearing answer, but I can take note of what KL has written. And so I think it is important, and I hope that the questioner will acknowledge that there is now a guide on the steps to be taken to help those people who were in danger of being exposed to their homes. These are all initiatives that I believe can help something. And then just to return to the premise: I simply do not share the premise on which the question is based, because it is not exactly the opinion that you have to go into the labour market, and there is therefore a world different from being on integration benefits and then being out on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163138	This is also, of course, primarily a question of the part dealing with cash aid, which also affects ethnic Danes and so on. But just to sum up: the government intends to introduce a cash aid ceiling which will hit a great many, but 13,000 singles in particular with children, and especially if you include the 225-hour rule, 670 couples who will have severe cuts in their disposable income. At the same time, this is also expected by the government to bring 650 people into employment. So you just have to conclude that there is no correlation between the expectation that all people are going to work and how many are actually being affected, and that the housing companies and the local authorities' association and disability organisations and all sorts of others are warning will lead to more postponements. So it's just to sum up in the hope that the government is reconsidering introducing this cash aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163240	Oh, I just wanted to hope that mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen agreed with me that it is a vital value that you can create a labour market where it pays to work. That's what this is all about. For me, it is really a fundamental value that it pays to work so that you can support yourself. This is not a question of whether you are an ethnic Dane or an immigrant, this is a question of how it would be worthwhile for everyone to work. And if you're gonna have to round the whole immigration debate, you just have to say that it's extremely important for immigrants to get out and get to know what you could call the ordinary Danish daily life, and that happens to a large extent through the labour market. So the intention is not that you should be on a public service, the intention is that you should earn your own money and become part of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163332	Thank you to the questioner. And we switch the questioner to Question 8, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is what Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163349	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Minister consider it widespread that migrants and asylum seekers arrive in Denmark and lie about which country they really come from, and if so, what will the Minister do to get the many who lie about their nationality in the hope of promoting their possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163408	Denmark has a responsibility to help people who are on the run, and we certainly do. But we must take care of Denmark. We should not take so many refugees that this threatens our cohesion and we should not grant asylum to people who do not need protection. That is why it is, of course, totally unacceptable to try to obtain asylum in Denmark on false grounds. When a person applies for asylum in Denmark, it is initially the Immigration Authority that decides on asylum. And a very important part of the asylum procedure itself is precisely to determine the identity of the applicant and, of course, also nationality. In this context, the National Immigration Agency uses a number of different methods. This concerns, among other things: on language testing; it is a question of checking the country or territory from which the asylum seeker allegedly comes. In addition, the Immigration Authority has extensive background material and thus background knowledge of the countries from which we receive asylum seekers. As the questioner is well aware, the government has long believed that conditions in the area of asylum mean something to how attractive it is to apply to Denmark. That is also what we normally call the conditions of residence. Therefore, the government as one of the very first, with effect from 1 September last year, introduced a new and lower integration benefit, which, with the agreement on the 2016 Finance Act, is being extended to a larger target group. And with L 87, which we are discussing here in Parliament these days and weeks, the government will tighten up the conditions in the area of asylum. In addition to L 87, the Government will take a number of initiatives which are not to be implemented by amending the Aliens Act but which can be implemented by amending administrative regulations. These are restrictions on the duration of residence permits for refugees, the abolition of the extraordinary asylum advice and the abolition of the State's payment for transport to Denmark for family members of refugees in this country. I have noted that, fortunately, the author's party supports all these initiatives, and I would very much like to sign for it and for the good cooperation that we have in this area. With these changes, it becomes significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163647	Thank you. But I am glad that it will be significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark, but it was not really so much what I asked about. What I am asking is, of course, the fact that in other countries at least some major challenges have been outlined, namely that those who seek asylum and who are going through different European countries simply say: I have no ID papers, I have no driving licence, no passport and, moreover, they come from a country other than what they actually claim. Well, that's one of the things you do. have been able to document in Austria, where a large number of people accumulate, thousands of mainly North Africans, who are trying to reach, among others. the northern European countries, i.e. Scandinavia. There it is quite widespread. That is also what is depicted in, among other things. The extra magazine of journalists sent to the area where, among other things, they... A whole series of Moroccan men meet and say: we are from Syria, although we are from Morocco, but when some people ask, we are from Syria, and we have a single goal, and that is to come to Denmark. These are such questions that provoke me, because I think we can ask a large number of other questions, which I will probably have time to discuss. And as the Minister so well explained, we are trying to impose tougher sanctions in Denmark and make it economically less attractive. That's fair enough. But what is the great provocation here is that some people are already starting from day one by committing fraud, in other words by deliberately claiming that they are from a country other than what they really are from. Then you are already out in a culpable and deliberate act about wanting to commit fraud in Denmark. After all, fraud is committed when you are wrongly granted an asylum and residence permit, even if you are actually from Morocco or Tunisia or other countries, but claim to be from Syria. There is what I am very interested in knowing what the government is practically doing out of extraordinary measures to assure us all that those who come and claim that they are from Syria are indeed also from Syria. For what we can see in the real world is that a lot of people who are not from Syria claim they are from Syria. Unfortunately, the Minister did not answer that in the first round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120163857	I did so actually, and it was in the first part of my answer, but I can repeat it. It was simply that I went through it at the beginning of my answer, and since it left some time at the end of my answer, I actually spent some of the time telling you about the tightening ups that we have carried out together. What you are doing, and I would like to repeat this from my first answer, is that language tests are being carried out. Check questions are also being asked, and I can tell you how this works with these check questions, because I have been there myself. Among other things, it is happening. The fact that if you say you come from Aleppo, you are asked a question that you can only answer if you come from Aleppo. It could, for example, be done. be: What do the soccer jerseys look like? Where's the museum? What do the buses look like? What routes are they running? And all these things. Those questions are not just something to learn, I can then also reassure the questioner, because I would almost think that could be the next question. No, you can't, because these questions change all the time, and that's one of the reasons why we have people down in many of these areas to check up on such things. And it is an essential part of getting asylum that you can respond to these questions and carry out the tests that you are being subjected to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164011	If you look only at the asylum figures from November 2015, you can see that almost 2,000 people came to Denmark and invoked the Asylum Convention and, incidentally, they said that they were from Syria. Then it is interesting to know how many of the cases we have in Denmark we get registered as regards people having changed their nationality after they have come to Denmark and said they are from Syria. How many are we gonna get caught in those tests? How many people are really changing their nationality? And wouldn't the Minister also think it is an aggravating circumstance if one starts from day one to commit a criminal act in Denmark by claiming that one is from a country other than that which one really is from? Then you've already made yourself so criminal that you don't have to go into Denmark at all. I think that would be an elementary part of it. That is why, of course, I think we should also have that type of statistics on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164105	But there is only one reason to try to change nationality in such a situation, and that is, of course, if you are aware in advance that you cannot obtain asylum with the identity and affiliation that you have when you get here. Otherwise, there is no need to change nationality, and then we are supposed to find out that it is not true that they come from, for example. Aleppo or Homs, or wherever it might be, but that they come from North Africa. It can sometimes be seen as well. But that being said, this is exactly what we are going to pick up here, and I can't say these figures on a stand-by basis, and I'm not quite sure they're being accurately figured out either. Because what is going to happen in many cases is that you have just rejected your asylum case, that is to say that you simply do not obtain asylum. And I simply do not know whether the statistics show that it is because you have lied about your nationality. However, we can at least see that if you do not have a need for protection, you will not get asylum, and that will be apparent at least from the statistics on the number of asylum seekers versus those who actually obtained asylum here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164219	If, for example, there are Moroccans who claim to be from Syria, then it would be very interesting if the Minister would have caused us to get the figures on how many people have actually been expelled from Denmark because they have deliberately lied about which country they were born in. Because in my optics they are already out on a very criminal journey when they go in and start to lie about where they come from before they even come into Denmark. We know that you fancy how old you are, and you say that you are a minor, even if you are not, etc. We have an opportunity to investigate these things. But I just want us to get some more statistics on how many of these cases there are, where, for example, we go in with the studies mentioned by the Minister. What is happening, then, and in how many cases is it that you can actually see that people have deliberately lied about their nationality? Because when it is a major problem in Austria, I also believe that it is actually a major problem in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164318	As I said, I do not have the figures, and I am not really aware whether we can obtain them in the exact form that the questioner is asking for. After all, it's very difficult to maintain a disagreement on this issue. Because we fully agree that if you do not have a protection requirement and it could be assumed that you do not have it, if you lie about your nationality, because then you are migrant and try to get into Denmark and live your life, then you have to be expelled from Denmark. And yes, I fully agree that then something that is both forbidden and at least bad should not mean that asylum is granted. So it's kind of just to say that we just don't disagree on this. But it's a very nice discussion to take anyway. I can therefore reassure the questioner that it is not the case to lie about your nationality, because there is both language testing, but also, for example, language testing. tested using these check questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164413	Thank you to the questioner. We will take the last question to the Minister this time. It is a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is asked by Mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164425	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164429	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on general housing companies, such as: LAB, do branches that are in bankruptcy because the Ministry does not deal with the housing company's renovation case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164441	First of all, I should like to inform you that the Ministry does not take a position on renovation cases. Therefore, my replies refer only to the Ministry's handling of demolition cases. We can all agree that the demolition of general housing is a far-reaching decision. Significant public funds have been spent on building housing, so they should not be demolished without good reason. I don't think we disagree on that either. In general, therefore, the Ministry has a restrictive practice for processing applications for approval of demolition of general housing. Thus, in the case of an application for demolition, it must be demonstrated that there will be no need for housing in the coming years. The refugee situation and the great need for housing, which it has then brought about, must necessarily lead to a tightening up of that requirement. The practice is that the Ministry can approve the demolition of non-profit housing on the basis of three criteria: the first is construction engineering problems. The second is the increase in socially vulnerable housing areas. The third is rental difficulties and resulting economic problems. I would like to stress that all three types of demolition applications will continue to be dealt with, even if we are in the situation that we are doing now, where we lack many homes. Applications based on building technical problems and the improvement of socially vulnerable residential areas are dealt with as before. The reason is that the municipalities cannot assign refugees to these homes because they are simply too poor or are located in an area for which refugees are not designated. In future, in cases of rental difficulties, I will be reluctant to allow a demolition. Right now, we are in a situation where a great many refugees lack a roof over their heads, and we must therefore be sure that the homes cannot be used to house refugees. On the other hand, of course, we must also ensure that we do not stop a demolition case if the homes cannot really be used. If the municipality does not need the housing, whether for Danes or for refugees, and the Foreigners' Authority does not find that the housing is suitable for an asylum centre, then we must of course consider whether demolition should be approved. The aim is therefore, on the one hand, to prevent unnecessary public expenditure on housing and, on the other hand, to avoid further losses for the housing organisations involved. As regards the risk of general housing going bankrupt as a result of the Ministry's change of practice, I find it actually rather unlikely. The Landsbygningsfonden has a number of opportunities to support the needy departments in particular, so that they do not go bankrupt, and these opportunities, as you know, continue to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164755	After all, I hope that the Minister will see that I am naturally concerned when I have a chairman of the Housing Association who says that they are very pressured, particularly financially, and that they are actually threatened with bankruptcy. There I would like to hear what the Minister's message is about these housing companies, which are, in general, only waiting for permission for renovation, but which are still becoming more and more financially pressured. In this case, we have a housing company, LAB, which is missing 12 million. kr. in the budget, and they don't come and deliver. So the National Building Fund does not come by with such a bag of money and covers that deficit. What is the Minister's message to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164847	As I mentioned in my introduction, we do not take a position on renovation cases in the Ministry. That's why it's only demolition that I can relate to here. And as far as demolition is concerned, and I am well aware that this is not quite what is being asked about • firstly, I would like to say that there must be a balance between ensuring that there are housing that is relevant to placing precisely refugees in. Secondly, I also understand perfectly well that in some places we would like to get started with a development plan which can be of great benefit to both people who have to move into those homes, but also to the whole development of a municipality. However, as I said, we do not take a position on the whole issue of renovation in the Ministry. That is why I can hardly comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120164937	Now it may be that I have written a renovation case, and that is, in part, also true. But what's the whole point of this case, and I guess it still belongs to the Ministry of Housing, is that you want to reduce the number of dwellings. That is to say, you want to tear down the existing ones and then build something on the foundations that are now in place to simply ensure that the economy can run around. And the direct reason why the economy can't run around, at least in this housing company, is that you can't get a permit to tear down any housing stock to build it up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165019	But if it has to do with a demolition case, it is true that it is in the Ministry that the decision is made. It is therefore the case at the moment that, on the one hand, we have to find a balance between ensuring that there are enough housing and, on the other hand, I have a deep understanding that municipalities and, of course, housing companies have a desire to develop their territory. And I understand that it can be both annoying and too bad that then you can't be allowed to tear anything down. The reason for this may be the lack of housing, but it may also be that the homes as they are now are excellent, in other words in a state where people can easily live in them. But that too, and that is another part of it, you can still go away as a housing company or municipality may have a desire to develop your area. This is the balancing point that needs to be found, and I admit that it is not very easy to find that balance point and that it can also be a little bothering around in some areas where you have a very good project lying around.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165134	Yeah, but now this isn't just a housing company, it's actually bothering to such an extent that the housing company is going bankrupt. And it will be the first time in the history of Denmark that a general housing department will go bankrupt, and that is what we really have here. It can be said that Lolland, as is the case in this case, is taking up their portion and even a little more, and that they also have enough housing to offer to refugees. So what can the Minister tell the Housing Association here? Will the Minister let them go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165212	Now I'm not the one who's letting anyone go bankrupt, not even at Lolland. But having said that, I would again point out that, if it has to do with demolition cases, there are, as I also mentioned in my initial reply, the Landsbygningsfond, who can just come with a helping hand to the needy departments that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165237	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. There are no more questions for this minister. Before we move on to the next series of questions, I would like to recommend that we keep to the speaking time of one and a half minutes respectively. But we are going to Question 10, which is for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and that is what Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165258	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165300	Thank you. I'll do my utmost to keep time. Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that there is no clarification on the region's economy after 2016 in relation to the subsidy scheme for the operation and maintenance of the local lanes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165319	Thank you for the question. I look up at the President and think: I shall now stand up and take the floor. Thank you. The regions have come up with a desire to change the block grant criterion, the block grant criterion which precisely reflects the number of kilometres of private railway tracks. In concrete terms, they want the criterion to be frozen so that the regional subsidies will not be affected if a region decides to close a runway. Of course, when you make such a wish, you also have to have an answer to it, and that is also an answer we in the government would like to give to the regions. In the first place, in August last year, we have given the regions a clear financial framework here for the year 2016 • we are in January now. And, of course, there will be clarification of the region's economy for 2017 before the budgeting for 2017. In the government we stress that we have comprehensive public transport throughout the country. The funds for the operation and maintenance of the private railways have been allocated to the regions, and it is therefore also the responsibility of the regions to ensure regional public transport within the framework they have been given to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165443	Well, thank you for the answer, though I didn't think it was very elaborate. In the case of the Region of Sjælland, you will have to decide as early as May on the purchase of traffic next year in relation to the contract you have with Movia. Then I can also ask the Minister further in relation to this wish of the regions that it should not be the number of rail kilometres that are crucial to obtaining subsidies. Today it is stated in the notice that it has to be the number of rail kilometres in operation because that is not the idea of that I assume that the minister agrees with me that you get a grant to run local railways for; the idea is basically that you have to run local railways. I hope that will be clarified in the agreement that is being made. But when can the regions expect clarification? The minister says August, but I'm just afraid of the future of the lanes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165549	I can confirm that I have an ambition for clarification in relation to the forward-looking grant before August. The reason I mentioned August was that last August we made the agreement on the region's economy for 2016. Let us go to what is really important in this, and that is what I think, at least as the Minister for the Interior, that it is a strength that we in Denmark do it in such a way that we put many tasks to the municipalities and regions, so that you take the responsibility locally, that you solve the tasks close to the citizens and on the basis of local priorities. And it is important to say here that the regions receive about 3 billion. kr. annual in block grants and municipal contributions to precisely solving the regional development tasks. Then there is, in fact, an annual investment grant of about 100 million compared with what is, after all, the question of the private railways. kr. from the Ministry of Transport and Building to the ongoing maintenance of the lanes. In addition, there is also free access to loans for investment in private railways. So what is important to make clear here is that the regions are therefore responsible for implementing the priorities within the overall resources they have for the development tasks they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165711	The Minister now mentioned that the regions receive 3.4 billion. kr. in grants. That is also the figure I have received from the Ministry. However, when we last had the Region of Zealand in the delegation to the Transport Committee, some figures showed that the regions were getting 2.2 billion. kr., and that means that there is a divergence of 1.2 billion. kr. between the Minister's figures and the regional figures. Where does the 1.2 billion disappear? kr. Into the money box of the regions? Because I think it is strange that there is such a difference of opinion between 1.2 billion and 1.2 billion. kr. is, however, some kind of money, and there could certainly be a lot of railroad for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165755	In any case, it must account for the Region of Zealand's own expense. The figures are as the questioner started by explaining them here. What this whole question is about is that you have a desire to change this block grant criterion, that is to say the fact that it reflects how many kilometres of private railway you have, and you really want to freeze that. Is that a good idea? Well, is that what we're gonna do? It was the case that the previous government chose to set up a working group to look at this criterion, and the work involved both the consideration of its own operation in the regions and the consideration of such a coherent public transport throughout the country. And that is the work that has not resulted in any clear recommendation for a solution. I think it is important to say here that I would like to work towards clarification, because I understand that the regions need this in relation to their future priorities. But it is also important to say that these maintenance accounts have been allocated to them on a regular basis, i.e. funds for both operation and maintenance. It has been added to the regions that have taken money into the task, and therefore it is also the responsibility of the regions to ensure that regional public transport is carried out within the rules and frameworks that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120165929	Since the Minister says 3.4 billion. kr. and the Minister's party colleague, who is chairman of the Region of Zealand, informs the Parliament's Committee on Transport that it is 2.2 billion. kr., who should we really believe in? Well, of course I choose to believe in the minister, because the ministry needs to know what they're paying. But that is all I am asking: may there be a risk that the remaining 1.2 billion may have been spent in the regions. kr. for other purposes than the railways? Because we also see a certain maintenance delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170004	It is, of course, the case with regard to block grant criteria in general that block grants are not specifically earmarked as such, and that is because there is precisely this regional self-determination and also local self-government when we discuss how the money goes out to the municipalities. So we have a distribution specifically in relation to the private rail line criterion, and at the same time we also have the amount that I explained coming from the Ministry of Transport and Building in relation to the investment grant. So what kind of calculator and how to use the funds in Region Sjælland, I shall not be able to explain here. But I would very much like to try to dig it up and perhaps give a further written answer to the question of why there is so much divergence in terms of what the region itself thinks they have been given from funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170102	Thank you. Question 10 is over. We shall proceed to Question 11, which is also addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170111	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170113	Thank you. As the work started in the spring on the regional aid for operation and maintenance seems to be dragging on, the Minister will then extend the present scheme to include, for example: 2018, so that there is no closure of lanes, as is happening on the Tølløsbane at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170131	After all, it has so far been assumed that the targeted State investment grant to the private railways granted by the Ministry of Transport and Building to the regions would be converted to the block grant from 2016. And that will not change the overall economy of the regions, but for some regions it will then give a slightly smaller amount of financing and for others a slightly larger amount of financing. And it is the case that the government has indicated in the 2016 regional economy agreement that the investment grant will then continue unchanged in 2016, which means that the region's financial framework in 2016 is the same as it has been in the past. It is clear that we will endeavour now to find a rapid clarification of the financial framework in relation to the private railway task in the future, which is why it is of course also an expectation that there will soon be a clarification in relation to the entire investment grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170234	I am delighted that this process is, after all, being set in motion. But already in 2015 there was a dyke report of 66 pages on the economy and future of the regional lanes, so you have had something to lean on. I understand that some regions are resisting and, for example, they are resisting. Region Sjælland says they're losing 12 million. kr., if these eligibility criteria are changed, while e.g. Central Jutland region will win on it. In fact, they have got less local track to run, in that the Odder track has migrated to Århus Letbane. So they don't have a lot of local lanes to run anymore. I think it's only the VLTJ track that's back by now. So I understand that, and that is why it is also important that the money fits roughly the number of kilometres of rail you have, and I very much hope that the Minister will agree with me on that. This is a mess because it's in the Home Office, and it's not because I have something against the Ministry, but this is about infrastructure, and I would like to ask if you could imagine that these tracks, or at least the rails, came under Banedanmark's wings? So you sort of got rid of this maintenance grant, and then you could just move the block grant over to Banedanmark, and I guess that's it. Then we would be free from having to have some regions that can be shelling and waltzing with the future of the railways.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170355	In my previous answer, I explained that I am, in fact, very much in favour of solving the tasks locally. And I also believe that my colleague, the Minister for Transport, would be somewhat sad if I started to know whether Banedanmark would be able to see the sense of it. In concrete terms, we are now talking about the fact that the Tølløsbane has chosen to close part of the line in the Region of Zealand on the grounds that it is due to the state of the track. I am well aware that this is an unfortunate situation, not least for passengers. Then it is that the region refers to the lack of clarification of the financial framework for the private railway task. And I hope that this will not be taken as an expression of the fact that the ongoing maintenance, which is of course necessary for the safety of the track to be in a good condition over the years, has been downgraded. One might well ask how the task has been handled, because the task solution in the regions must take place within the framework that exists, and should not depend on whether a change in a criterion for block grants will then perhaps be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170505	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170506	I am incredibly pleased to hear that, because then we are actually very much in agreement that when you get some money, you have to do it too. But you have just failed to do that in the Region of Zealand, and now you take the passengers hostage because you have a track, the Tølløsbanen, which is a bit worn out. This situation could, of course, have been avoided by allowing the State to carry out the task, in that I do not think, in the best of my knowledge, that the regions have fulfilled this task very well. You could let the state take over the infrastructure, so taking care of it was one place. Everything else should be easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170544	In relation to that question, I will not go into the question of whether it should be handed over to Banedanmark. I think it is still important to be clear that, as the situation is now and here and as the money is allocated, it is therefore the responsibility of the regions to carry out their tasks within the framework that is in force and not to wait for such a change in legislation on the financing of the regions to take place in the future. And if, as a region, we assume that the restructuring of the operating aid is designed to give the region a smaller income, then we must, of course, deal with it. I have to say that in view of the overall funding given over the years to regional development tasks and specifically to investments on the tracks, it does not explain, in my view, if there are lanes that have not been maintained on an ongoing basis. In that I agree with the questioner, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170641	I understand, then, that the Minister will not discuss infrastructure so much, but we will then have the opportunity to do so in a subsequent consultation which I have called for. We'll get the Minister of Transport to do that too, and hopefully we can have a break that it's a mess that this is in several different places. I have also understood in the region of some of the correspondence that I have been given access to that one has a dialogue, a discussion, with the Ministry at the moment about whether one should be allowed to drive on government infrastructure. I am thinking, of course, of the Little South railway, where it has almost been set up as a condition for restoring the rails on the Tølløsbane. I think that is a strange course of action. I don't mind if the East railway, as it is called, goes on to DSB's grid, it works excellently up in North Jutland, so it would only make a greater use of the track, but if it is to be allowed to do so, it will probably also make some counter-claims that you have to get started renovating this Tølløsbane instead of constantly going rogue with the sable and putting in buses instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170747	I am in favour of the situation being somewhat unsustainable at this stage, and that is also a good reason for discussing the general task of infrastructure here. As I and the Minister for Transport have already said on several occasions, we will endeavour to ensure that the regions quickly clarify the economy for the private railway task, even after 2016, knowing that we are only just in January 2016. I fully agree that no one can benefit from this if the question of changing the block subsidy criterion affects whether passengers on the local lanes are given clarity and the possibility of using regional public transport. That must be the answer to that. The questions about where else the task should be placed will then be taken when the Minister of Transport is also present for that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170839	Thank you to the questioner. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, which is for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and this is put forward by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170850	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170852	Thank you. How does the Minister think that it is possible to ensure the legal certainty of citizens in cases where, for example, a municipality is dragging its feet in order to avoid paying citizens their legitimate benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120170906	I understand the question that it is a question of the municipalities dealing with applications for aid under social legislation. It is the case that, under the legal certainty law, the municipalities must deal with all questions of assistance as soon as possible, and the individual municipalities must also set deadlines for the period between the receipt of an application and the decision being taken. On the one hand, rapid treatment must respond to the legitimate desire of citizens to receive answers quickly, but on the other hand, it must also be seen in the context of local priorities of resources. As I have said several times, at the latest during the readings we had last night, on motion for a resolution No. B 35 and B 36 I do not think that municipalities deliberately make wrong decisions in order to avoid having to provide citizens with the benefits to which they are entitled by law. I also believe that the municipalities are not deliberately stalling matters in order to save money. I do not, of course, know whether the questioner is thinking of the situation in which a municipality has set up a citizen's money allowance under the Service Act and where, after the citizen's complaint, the Ankestyrelsen decides that the reduction was not correct. Because in such situations, the citizen actually receives the payment of the money under the Services Act with retroactive effect. It may then be that the questioner is referring to the Kolding case to which a previous question has been put, and I would point out that this case does not in fact refer to a municipality which has delayed proceedings; it concerns the reopening of a number of sickness benefits cases as a result of a judgment of the Supreme Court in breach of a general practice to date.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171052	Thank you for your answer. Yeah, that's just about it. on Kolding in relation to the Supreme Court ruling which came in September. You can see that it is January today, and at least it takes some time to act on it here in order to repay the citizens who have lost their services. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister believes that it is illegal for Kolding Municipality to pay the benefit back to the citizens who have lost their sickness benefit. There has been a lot of discussion and debate about this, and there have been several different statements, among others. experts have said that this limitation period cannot be brought forward, as has been the case in Kolding Municipality, where they are said to be obsolete. So the question is: can a municipality, without being illegal, repay a benefit which it has improperly deprived citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171156	Maybe repeat it, because questions have been asked specifically to Kolding Municipality, and I cannot go into the specific case and decide whether Kolding Municipality's decision not to reimburse sickness benefit in cases where, in the municipality's view, the cases are obsolete is legal. Generally speaking, as I said last time, the matter was raised that there is usually no possibility for municipalities to act as they say. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Therefore, it is not necessarily equal to disregard a possible obsolescence. The municipalities therefore have a general obligation to act financially securely, and this includes, among other things, the following: a duty to show responsibility in its financial affairs so that no expenses which could have been avoided are incurred by the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171258	I have to admit that I had little difficulty in understanding the answer, because my question was quite simple: if a municipality has wrongly deprived a citizen of benefits, is it illegal for a municipality to pay back that benefit on grounds of the limitation period? And that's because there have been different statements in this area, among others. I also know that the Minister for Employment has stated that it is at least quoted in dknyt: Kolding is acting illegally. So my question is simply that the minister as a minister in this area must be able to answer whether it is illegal for a municipality to repay its citizens their rightful benefits, as decided by the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171349	In general, a municipality must, of course, comply with the decisions of the courts, and when the Supreme Court has delivered a judgment, it must be complied with. What Kolding Municipality's Labour Market Committee has considered concerns the question of the obligations of the municipality as a result of this judgment in relation to reopening other similar cases. And here, on the basis of the information I have in my possession, the municipality's labour market committee has decided to resume all cases known to the municipality at this time, and then to reject the claims which are obsolete after the general limitation period of 3 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171431	After all, there are experts who have been out to say that this limitation period should apply from the time the case is settled in the Supreme Court. That is why I ask: should a decision of the Supreme Court of September then apply in the future, or should it apply retroactively, since those cases have been raised? Experts speak out, and now I quote: Kolding Municipality considers the limitation period backwards, from the moment they received a decision from the Supreme Court. It is clear that the limitation period is not designed to reward municipalities for having made wrong decisions. That is why you can take it from the Supreme Court's decision of September and so forward-looking that's where the case is settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171535	However, I can say that it is quite clear from the committee reports from the examination in Kolding Municipality that on 10 September 2015, that is. the date of the Supreme Court's judgment is used by the municipality as a deadline. In other words, the municipality's subsequent processing time is what we are discussing, i.e. whether it will be dragged on a long-term basis, so it does not play a role in matters of limitation. So there is no question that the duration of the municipality's proceedings means that more or less cases are barred in this situation. So there is no reason, I believe, to accuse the municipality of dragging the decision on follow-up on the basis of a motive that citizens' cases become obsolete. Then, of course, it will be a concrete assessment in the individual case whether a citizen's claim for reimbursement of sickness benefit is obsolete.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171623	Thank you. We continue with question 13, which is also for the social and interior minister and by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171633	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171634	Does the Minister consider that it may be reasonable for a municipality to be able to withdraw proceedings concerning financial benefits for, for example, sickness benefit recipients and then not to pay the rightful benefits on the basis of the obsolescence law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171649	It can be said again that this is an issue which is generally formulated, but one should not have followed much in the media, nor in our last round of questions, in order to get the impression that, although it is a very general issue, it is an issue which is strongly inspired by the Kolding municipality case. As I said before, this is a matter for which I was also asked in this Chamber last week. That is why it will probably be a bit of a repetition of what we have said, including in the previous question, because in general I agree that a municipality must, of course, comply with the decisions of the courts and, when the Supreme Court has delivered a judgment, it must be complied with. This is what Kolding Municipality's labour market committee has now decided, namely the question of what obligations the municipality then has as a result of the judgment to reopen other similar cases. There's been a lot of press coverage of this. I have also spoken in my previous reply about what the municipality's labour market committee has taken of decisions, and so it is now the case that Kolding Municipality has further examined the legality of the labour market committee's recommendation, and this has happened before the Economic Committee had to take a decision. A joint meeting of the Economic and Social Committee was held here on Monday 18 January. There I note that the committees have decided to propose to the City Council that the matter be referred to the State Administration before the final decision on the limitation period is taken. This means that the municipality's handling of this case has not been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120171843	First of all, I would like to say to the Minister that I am not accusing anyone of anything. I'm trying to figure out what's up and down in these cases because some citizens have been hit. And what is in it is that you say on the part of a municipality that you simply cannot pay back that money because it will be illegal. So it is just that I simply ask the Minister: is it illegal if a municipality chooses to repay the citizens the benefits which have been improperly deprived of them? I am asking in relation to obsolescence with reference to a Supreme Court ruling, which fell in September 2015. That's just what I'm asking. I just can't understand it. If it had been the other way around and it was the citizen who owed money to a municipality, would that mean that the citizen could not pay for three years and then the matter would be obsolete? It is simply to make it clear here that the cases are out of date. After all, many of these sickness benefits are closed even before 2012, which you choose to take as a deadline. So it is simply to clarify it, because there are various statements in this area. And I think we owe the citizens an answer: can they expect to get back the money that they have been wrongly deprived of, or can they not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172018	I think it's important to be very precise here. The Supreme Court ruling decides on a case for a single citizen, and the individual citizen has the money reimbursed. What then starts a discussion is whether, as a result of the judgment which concerns one person, there are some municipal obligations. So the thing about just cutting everyone over a comb, you gotta be careful about it. This is what the municipality's labour market committee starts by discussing, and it takes the Committee on Economic Affairs so far. And at the joint meeting to which I referred in my previous reply, which was held between the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, it has been decided that it will be proposed to the City Council that they now take up the state administration and ask the State administration for help in the discussion on limitation periods. What is important to say here, and it is generally going to be • now the time has elapsed, but I am allowed to continue, and I have to do it very quickly • is just that municipalities do not have the opportunity to act only per person. As it says, in economic matters, it is not necessarily equal to disregard a possible obsolescence. For municipalities, there is a general obligation to act financially, and this therefore also implies a duty to show responsibility in economic matters, so that a municipal expenditure that could have been avoided is not incurred. It has to be specific to this discussion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172205	Yeah, but it's illegal to let the other player in with these decisions and those who've settled these cases. This hasn't happened by the book. I also referred to, if it were the other way around, if, as a citizen, you had not paid what you owed to the municipality. That is also what the discussion often goes on. Then you'll get the bill, but not the other way around. So I ask again: if Kolding Municipality says that if they have committed something illegal in these cases, even before 2012, and want to pay back the benefits they have improperly taken from the sickness benefit recipients, do they have a legal basis for it? Or can you draw the obsolescence card every time? And, on the other hand, does this also apply to the citizens when they owe money to the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172302	I fully understand that this is difficult. I also think it is very, very important not only to conclude that this is a verdict that has been handed down and applies to a lot of people. There's been a case with one person. The Supreme Court has ruled, the municipality has responded to that judgment, and then there is a discussion about whether it should have any repercussions. The question here in the last round is so specific as to whether a municipality has the possibility of refraining from claiming limitation periods. This will be the assessment which the State Administration will have the opportunity to make. It may well be that at some point we get to the question of whether it is the law that needs to be changed, and then it is a discussion about what the statute of limitations is like. There I have to say that it is the Minister of Justice who has the entire obsolescence law. It may then also be a discussion on sickness benefit legislation. But right now we are discussing the municipal supervision of the State Administration. It is the State Administration that has now received the question from Kolding Municipality regarding the possibility of not making any obsolescence, and there I must refer to the whole explanation that I also made in the previous round, that it is not equal, as I can see, just to disregard this possible obsolescence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172425	Yes, and that's why I called Mr. Søren Pind today, but I understood that the Ministry had agreed that it was Mrs Karen Ellemann who had to answer this question. That is why I just have to ask in general terms: if a citizen of the Danish country is wrongly deprived of a benefit or assistance, does the Minister think it is reasonable that you should pay back what you owe to the citizen, or does the Minister think it is okay that you do not? It's quite simple. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this question, namely that people can be deprived of a benefit. It can also be anything other than equal cash benefits, and then there will be a judgment or something else, or something that should not be done, and that the citizens will then get back what they are entitled to under the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172527	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I should like to remind you that, according to the label here, ministers are referred to as ministers and not by their personal names. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172534	It's okay. I would like to answer in general terms that municipalities must follow the law, and in this case, where a judgment has been handed down at the Supreme Court, the municipality must of course also follow the decision that has been made. The specific municipality we have talked about here has also done so in relation to that person. It's so close, I get what my opinion is about, whether you have to abide by the law. Yes, of course you have to comply with the law and, of course, in those cases where you have been told that you have not complied with the law and are told what to do, you have to comply with the decision and the judgment that has been made, just as Kolding Municipality has done in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172620	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. We proceed to Question 14, which is for the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and that has been raised by Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172639	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172644	Thank you. It's new to me. I can't wait to try, sir. Minister. Has the Minister considered further measures to ensure greater popular support for the construction of wind turbines on land and, if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172700	Thank you for the question, and welcome to Mr. Malthe Larsen here in the Danish Parliament. I look forward to good cooperation. There are already four schemes which help to ensure support for the expansion of wind turbines on land. These are the system of loss of value, the buying-in system, the green system and the guarantee fund. Under the value-loss scheme, a wind turbine operator is obliged to pay for a loss of value on real estate as a result of the construction of the wind turbine. The purchasing system is that the operator of a wind turbine is obliged to offer at least 20%. of the ownership interest in the wind turbine to the eligible circle of persons. The Green Scheme is intended to provide grants for initiatives to promote local acceptance of the construction of new wind turbines on land. The Guarantee Fund has been set up to support the financing of local windmill lows feasibility studies, etc. in connection with the construction of wind turbines. The four schemes were evaluated in 2011 and the evaluation was followed up in 2013 with a number of amendments to the law. I believe that the existing arrangements are good at ensuring the support of the population, and therefore I do not see any need for further action. I should also like to mention that planning for wind turbines on land and the noise rules for wind turbines are very important in order to create a framework that ensures support for the construction of wind turbines on land. The Planning Act is the responsibility of the Minister for Business and Growth and is administered by the municipalities, while the regulation of wind turbine noise is carried out by the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172848	Thank you, Minister. And I can tell you that the questioner now has his two minutes and then two questions of 1⁄2 minutes. And the minister has three replies a 1⁄2 minute. Here's the questioner for the 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120172859	Thank you very much for that information too. When I ask, it is of course because it is my impression that the municipalities around here still find it difficult to get these projects implemented and secured local support. Despite the efforts currently being made in the drawer and the tools available in the toolbox, local populations often manage to work together to create so much resistance to projects that areas are taken out. Just for Østjylland, I can mention that both Odder, Norddjurs and Randers municipalities have had so great problems with areas that were actually laid out and where investors would like to invest in wind turbines that they are not implemented or at least postponed for a very long time. I believe that the Minister and the questioner here could therefore have a common interest in ensuring that there was greater local support. And I have the imagination to imagine that there are actually some incentives in the tool drawer that are so strong that people may be begging and begging to get wind turbines up in their vicinity. I think most people actually have a look that wind turbines are a really good idea, but it just shouldn't be where you live. I am well aware of the arrangements in force, but they are seen in the local areas as some kind of mixture of blood money and other bad things that make it even more difficult to resist it. This is not considered positive enough, and I therefore ask the Minister once again whether we could perhaps get additional tools out of the toolbox together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173047	Thank you again for the question. I very much agree with the questioner that it is very, very important that there is local support. It is in fact the whole prerequisite for the green transition around Denmark that there is local support. However, I do believe that we have enough tools in the toolbox to provide a framework for local initiatives. The green scheme, the value-loss scheme and other measures mean that there are actually quite a lot of options available today. What we are concerned with seeing is that when wind turbines are set up it is ensured that they are done in a way that ensures that there is local support and finds the locations that cause the environment the least discomfort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173131	Then it's the questioner again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173135	Thank you for your answer. It is still my impression that local populations in the vicinity of potential wind farms typically see this as an attack on local co-determination and that you feel you are pulling a project over your head. As I said, I would very much like us to work together to get back, as in the 1980s, some schemes and incentives so that people allowed it to grow from below. Could you imagine, for example, that there would be an increase in the number of young people in the Community? were greater economic incentives for local areas to set up wind turbines?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173215	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173216	We have very good cooperation with the author's party on energy policy. We have a tradition in Denmark of very, very broad cooperation in the field of energy, which extends to almost all of the parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance. We are constantly discussing and have done so most recently with the 2012 Energy Agreement whether there are the right tools in the toolbox. It is our view that it is not a question of finding additional opportunities to accommodate local communities with local support, etc. What this is all about is finding places where the mills can be placed so that they bother the neighbors as little as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173259	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173303	Thank you to the questioner and the Minister. The next question is to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, by Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173307	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173310	Thank you. I'm gonna read the question. It reads as follows: What does the government intend to do to realise the project Maabjerg Energy Concept, which can create up to 1,000 jobs around Holstebro by 1 April, where the project otherwise loses its nearly 300 million. kr. in EU support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173326	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173329	Thank you for the question of Maabjerg Energy Concept's ability to receive nearly 300 million. kr. in support of the EU. With the November growth initiative, the government has decided to carry out an analysis to look at the potential for production of so-called advanced biofuels, including straw-based biofuels. The analysis will look at the framework conditions to create a favourable climate for the establishment of production in Denmark, taking into account what benefits Denmark overall in terms of growth, employment and socio-economics. The analysis will focus on opportunities based on private investment as well as possible EU grants. The stakeholders will be continuously involved in the analysis work. As far as the MEC is concerned, it is true that they have received undertakings from the EU for production aid under specific conditions. One of these conditions is that the MEC must have started the production of advanced biofuels by a specified date. As the area is difficult for all companies in this pioneer area and as it has proved more difficult to start producing advanced biofuels than initially assumed by the EU, the EU has previously decided to postpone this deadline until July 2017. The EU has stated that this date could be further postponed until July 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173456	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173459	Thank you. There is no doubt that it is extremely important for us in the Socialists to secure jobs throughout the country, and it can really be felt in West Jutland if we can realise a project that can create these around 1,000 jobs in the Holstebro area. Therefore, I can understand that in West Jutland one is a little bit, what can I say, impatient to get some clear answers. I must also say that I do not think that the Left is delivering here, or, to put it bluntly, perhaps even a little too much. You deliver a shelter. So, in the local media, the chairman of the Left and the rapporteur of the Left say that they support it. The government doesn't really say what it wants and whether it supports it. After all, we cannot invest after a whole-guarding exercise, and that is why I think it is very important that we should now have an answer as to whether the government is actually going to take a decision before 1 April, when the possibility of the grant lapses. That is at least the impression that you can get when you look at today's edition of Holstebro-Struer, where it says that a political decision will be taken by the end of March. I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm what was actually new to me when I read today's newspaper, which nevertheless says that there will be a political decision before the end of March. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173627	Thank you for the question. The questioner's own party has been in government for over three years. Throughout that period there was also a discussion about Maabjerg, and one might actually wonder, with the enthusiasm of the questioner, that the questioner has not been able to obtain the right framework conditions in the past if it had such a high political priority. We have chosen to analyse this thoroughly, and we have also chosen, unlike the previous government, to involve stakeholders in that study. It is true that over the coming months we expect to have completed that work so that we can at some point ensure that we have a decision on whether to create this framework or not and what it costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173712	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173714	So it is a confirmation that Maabjerg will have a decision before 1 April. It's kind of the first step. I do not think that the government is doing very well by saying that it thinks the previous government should have solved this problem. I think the government would stand well by accepting the hand that we have advanced. We have said that we in the Social Democratic Party would certainly like to support this as part of the growth negotiations, and the government itself has also proposed that this should be part of the growth negotiations. That is why the question is simply: how will the government ensure that this becomes a reality? Because it is one step on the way to making a decision before the deadline, but it should also be the right decision for the Holstebro area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173757	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173759	That is why it is absolutely essential for the government that we have it fully examined, so that we have an investigation: can this be done? What are the socio-economic consequences? What are the consequences for the price of petrol and diesel? Is it possible to create the right framework conditions? For us, it is absolutely crucial to have this examined in depth, and that is why we have chosen to have this analysed very, very thoroughly before a political decision is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173828	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173829	Frankly, I get a little worried about this goose like the cat about the hot porridge. If you're gonna have to analyze this to the bottom, can't you say if it's gonna be reached by 1 April? In other words, before Christmas, the Minister sent a letter to the Energy Committee stating that it wanted to wait for the EU's decision on burden-sharing in the non-quota sector, which can only be expected during the year. So I think that Holstebro is entitled to know whether this headline in today's newspaper, which must be taken on board by the Minister, namely that the decision will be taken before March, will hold. They must assume that they can get an answer as to whether they can count on it or whether the Minister's officials, with whom they have met today, have not spoken on behalf of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173913	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173915	As the questioner rightly suggests, we are well at work. There has been a meeting with the stakeholders today, and it is part of all of this that we ensure that we have as good a basis as possible. The questioner must also be interested in ensuring that we have a proper basis. Unlike the previous government, we've chosen to put turbo on this job. The previous government had years to solve this. It has been on the agenda for a long time, Maabjerg energy plants and others have been pushing for years to create a framework for this, and we have then chosen to set up a committee which is working on it and to ensure that we will hopefully have a basis for decision in the coming months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120173955	Thank you. The next question is also for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and also for Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174002	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174004	Thank you. I read out the question: Has the government also postponed the resolution of the PSO problem, or is the Minister suggesting that the PSO can be changed independently of the tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174016	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174017	Thank you to the questioner. A PSP solution is to be found which is ready for 1 January 2017. The European Commission has thus given Denmark until the end of 2016 to find a solution to the PSO problem. Efforts are being made to find an appropriate solution to the problem of discrimination presented by the European Commission. This is not an easy task. The PRS is a significant economic size and there are many things to take into account when changing the arrangement. It is therefore important that future solutions are thoroughly analysed so that we can find the solution that best serves Denmark's interests and at the same time solves the problem of discrimination. I would like to emphasise that the government wants to make the best choice for Denmark, Danish companies and Danes. The green transition must be carried out in a cost-effective way that is reasonable in relation to developments in Denmark and the world around us. That is why the government does not want to make a hasty decision. The Government is still working to find a solution that can enter into force from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174133	Thank you. And then it's sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174135	Thank you. At any rate, it must be assumed that the government is working to comply with EU legislation and the agreement reached with the European Union. So January 1st, 2017 should be a pretty fixed date. On the other hand, it seems that the government's tax reform is rather fluctuating in terms of whether it can bring the ends together in its parliamentary basis. That is why I asked quite banally, and the Minister actually spoke for a very long time without answering the simple question: can one imagine a PSP solution independent of the tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174209	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174210	Thank you for the question. I can confirm that we are committed to having a system ready by 1 January 2017. And on the question of whether this should be linked to other issues relating to taxes, I can tell you that no decision has been taken on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174227	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174228	Okay. It is, of course, an honest answer that this has not been decided. Then I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees that if you have to make this solution so that it can enter into force on 1 January, and the Folketing must have adopted it one month before, so that you can follow the Government's own intention that business taxes should enter into force on 1 January with one month's notice, and you must have a legal procedure before it, it will also end up with us having to have a PRS agreement during the summer at the latest. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174301	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174302	I can say that the government is working for us to have an arrangement ready on 1 January 2017. I also agree with the questioner that it would be appropriate for it to be in place in good time before 1 January 2017. But it is a question of finding a solution of an amount on the other side of 8 billion. I can inform the questioner that you do not just do it overnight. It is absolutely essential to ensure that this has been thoroughly analysed, that the challenge has been carefully looked at, and we are doing a good job of doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174338	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174342	I am very pleased about this, and there must be support and a promise of a constructive approach by the Social Democrats to solving this problem. I'm just a little afraid that this very large PSO task, which is extremely important for companies, sometimes becomes hostage in a game between the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and the government, which, for the sake of its support parties, cannot solve this problem which, unfortunately, like the tax reform, can only be postponed throughout the government period. We have to recognise that this is a little more urgent, and I therefore hope that the Minister can confirm that it is expected to resolve this on time, whether or not we can agree on a tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174421	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174423	I do not share the questioner's slightly mysterious ideas about how this task should be handled. We actually take it in the government really, really seriously. I also hope that the party of the questioner will enter into discussions on how to create the right solution from 1 January 2017. This is such a serious task that we can't just tease each other in the Folketing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174448	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question (pm. No. S 490) is addressed to the Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities of Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174459	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174501	Thank you. Does the Minister recognise that there is a problem in the fact that refugees are employed without an adequate children's certificate, when the Minister himself has very clearly expressed a clear expectation that the municipalities always put the safety, learning and well-being of children at the highest level when recruiting staff in day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174521	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174522	As I have previously stated in written answers to questions on the same subject, it is absolutely crucial for me that children are in safe hands when they are in daily offers. I have a clear expectation that the municipalities will give priority to the safety, well-being and learning of children when staff are recruited in the daily services. The municipality must always assess whether there are any conditions against a person being recruited or associated with a day-care institution and having to deal with children. For example, relationships that speak against employment may: be a child's certificate showing convictions for crimes of morality against children or that the child's certificate only goes back a short time because he has just arrived in the country. At the same time, the municipality must always make a thorough assessment of whether the person has the necessary knowledge and competence to contribute to compliance with the statutory requirements for educational content and quality. It is extremely important for the municipalities to give thorough consideration to the specific employment situation and to make an overall assessment of the suitability of the person concerned to work with children in day care. The children's certificate rarely contains information on possible crimes committed in other countries in the case of persons who have been in the country for a short period of time and cannot therefore stand alone. This includes both an assessment of whether the person can contribute to providing the child with a safe daily life in the offer, and whether the person has the necessary educational knowledge and competence to comply with the statutory requirements for educational content and quality in the daily offers that we have with the other staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174649	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174651	Thank you for your answer. In other words, the reason why I am asking about the Minister's position is, of course, a concern about the safety of children, because child certificates help to protect against paedophiles. I think it is clear that in some areas, in some municipalities, there are compromises on these child certificates. If we cannot have a guarantee that some people do not have a paedophile background, then I do not believe that we can say to the parents that they will then deliver their children in safe hands. We know and have seen how wrong things can sometimes go, and I believe that the Minister, like me, does not want such a paedophile case wherever it comes from. That is why I think it calls for some action on the part of the Minister, and I would actually like to know whether the Minister will take the initiative to put an end to the recruitments that have already taken place in 13 municipalities, where there are 91 employees without this complete certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174752	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174753	After all, it is the municipalities that are the appointing authority, and it is the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that the law is complied with. After all, the administration of child certificates and child certificates as legislation is not under the Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality. It is under the Ministry of Culture, and that is where we have the actual administration of the rules. In relation to the municipalities' overall assessment, which I also replied to in my first reply, it is of course important that the municipalities ensure that the adults who deal with children meet the requirements of the legislation. And it is not just a question of obtaining a child certificate; it is also a general question of ensuring that there are no conditions against the adult being able to secure a safe and educationally quality day-care offer, but that the adult can solve the problem with the children we have in our day-care offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174844	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174845	Thank you. Does the Minister feel that the municipalities which the Ekstra Bladet revealed in having employees who did not have an adequate certificate comply with the requirements which are being presented here and which the Minister has also submitted in writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174908	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174909	Well, as has also been the answer to the Danish Parliament, the specific legislation is not under the Ministry of Children, Education and Equal Opportunities, but it is under the Ministry of Culture, where you also have follow-up. After all, it is not the government, or for that matter the Folketing, which is the supervisory authority of the municipalities; it is ultimately the state administration that has to deal with it if complaints are made about the municipalities. I have the clear expectation that the municipalities will live up to the law and that they will also ensure that when you hire staff in the day-care institutions or attach staff to day-care institutions it is either internship or in other ways that you put the well-being of the children and the safety of the children first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174945	I don't have any more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174950	That concludes the question. The next question is to the tax minister by Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120174953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175005	I shall read out the question: what is the Minister's position on a number of local regional theatres, among others? North Jutland has to pay corporation tax as a result of a new interpretation of the rules in some of the country's tax regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175018	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175019	Thank you. I understand that this has recently been criticized for the practice of taxing theatres, including regional theatres, which the questioner is asking about, and the criticism has been that practice should have been tightened up. Many theatres, including regional theatres, will be taxable under a rule of the Corporate Tax Act, which results in tax liability on professional income. This means that the theaters will be taxable of the income which must be regarded as commercial income. The practice of theatrical activities was established by the National Tax Court in 2002. Here the National Tax Court ruled that theatres are taxable by the theatre itself. The National Tax Order also clearly concluded that, when theatrical activities are taxable, they are also taxable by public subsidies to this company, and that practice has also been written into a ministerial response from 2006. I have asked in the SKAT, and the SKAT is not aware that a new or more decisions have been taken which can be said to reflect a change of practice in this area. The practice of the taxation of theatres has thus been established for many years and no new interpretations have been made. I would like to stress that the fact that a theatre is subject to tax does not necessarily mean that the theatre will pay tax. It depends on whether the theatre together has a taxable profit. I am aware that SKAT in May 2015, i.e. in the spring of last year, has held an information meeting with among others. Theaters where it was stated that certain major theatres are tax-free as opposed to regional theatres, and therefore I think there is a need to clarify the practice in this area to see if theaters are covered by different rules, and that would then be a political decision. I think it would be a wise policy decision, but it is therefore a political decision whether to align the tax treatment of theatres. If it is a wish for which support can be obtained in the Folketing, then I think we should try to do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175238	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175239	In connection with the preparation of this question I have been looking at, among other things. The minister's own local theater, Vendsyssel Theatre, and they have a setup here in March, called "Slemer Boys." I was just thinking that it might be the tax minister who should step up on stage, because at a time when the country's Left Government is cutting down in every possible way in relation to local culture, it is of course worrying that when it comes to the regional theatres, which are our local cultural bastions, it is beginning to say that corporation tax is to be paid, whereas larger theaters then escape. So I was very worried about that, but I am very positive to hear the Minister say that the Minister is aware of the problem and that the Minister believes that this should be dealt with politically. I would also like to interpret the Minister's answer to the point that the Minister agrees with me, who asks that it would simply be too bad if it were for one to pay corporation tax on one's income in a theatre, even if one had to have a small profit for a year, so that it is not reasonable for one to have to pay corporation tax. It is local culture, and it is something that we should all give priority and support. So I hope that the Minister will agree with me that we must stop that and that the Minister will proceed with it. But the Minister is very happy to elaborate on what he intends to do in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175411	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175412	Thank you. I didn't realize that the performance in question played at Vendsyssel Theatre, but I can at least consider whether I should go in and see it, it sounds exciting. I find it difficult to see the reasonableness of a theatre like this. Østre Gasværk was supposed to be tax-free... let us now assume it... while a regional theater in South Jutland or in Vendsyssel is then charged. Perhaps one can consider whether the Royal Theatre is in a special situation, and that is why I also want to see what is the practice, and then one can take a political discussion of the theater and I would like to invite you to what the rules should be like. I can say that it is not my impression that this is a major source of revenue and, therefore, if you want to change it and uniform taxation, then I think it would be affordable if you could gather 90 seats at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175507	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175508	Now both the tax minister and I are resident and elected in the beautiful North Jutland, and there we also read the very good local newspaper called Nordjyske Stiftstidende. It was the case that on Sunday, 10 January, there was an article on the cultural pages about these regional theatres, which were among other things. Vendsyssel Theatre, Himmerland's Theatre, the Limfjord Theatre and Theatre Nordkraft are in danger of having to pay this corporation tax. Can the Minister clarify what he has done so far to provide a solution to this so that they do not have to shake their pants about having to pay corporation tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175553	All the time that there will in many cases be no tax profits at all, I do not think they should be concerned in the theater world. However, there are some administrative costs involved in calculating it, and if it does not provide any money, it is a good opportunity to look at whether it should be there. So I am glad that the questioner has asked the question here, and now we are going to find out what practice is. That then leads to a political position as to whether or not these rules should be harmonised. There you can then choose to say that all the theatres must be taxable of their profits or that no one should be. I am probably leaning mostly on the latter, and I hope that the questioner's party will also be involved in this, because then we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175630	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175632	I am glad to be the watchdog of North Jutland's interests and take up any matters that may be so that political attention is being paid to them. I am well aware that as a minister you see many different kinds of cases, so it can be difficult to reach them all. But can the Minister not understand that around North Jutland one is worried about suddenly being told by the local tax region that one might have to pay corporation tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175657	Yes, I can understand that if you haven't been aware of it in the past. There is only that curl on it that the rules were laid down in 2002. However, it is generally a problem if the Danish Parliament adopts rules if it is tax rules or other rules which are then not known to be adopted, because then it comes as a bit of a surprise. That is also why I choose to go constructively to it and say that we must have uniform rules. First of all, we need to find out what practice is and then it can lead to a political discussion on how to change it. This may require legislation, and if the questioner can give a commitment that the Social Democracy will back it up, we have come a long way towards resolving some of the problems that are being raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175737	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also to the tax minister, and it is also by Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175744	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also to the tax minister and also to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175744-2	Thank you, and I am reading it again: does the Minister think that it is a problem that the country's tax regions interpret the rules on the payment of corporation tax for regional theatres differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175754	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175756	If that is the case, the short answer is yes. In general, and that is the long answer, I can inform you that SKAT is a unitary organisation, which means that it is no longer a question of SKAT being divided into a number of tax regions. There is a unit in the SKAT which is responsible for all matters relating to the taxation of foundations and associations, including the taxation of theaters, and it is the Customer Service Occupation. And the practice of taxing theatrical activities, as I answered in a previous question, was determined by the National Tax Court in 2002, and SKAT is therefore not aware that one or more decisions have been taken which can be said to reflect a change in practice in that area. As I also mentioned in my previous reply, I am aware that in May 2015 SKAT held an information meeting for among others. theaters where it was reported that certain major theatres are tax-free, unlike for example. regional theatres. And there is uncertainty as to whether that interpretation is quite correct. Against this background, I have therefore asked the SKAT to examine the problem with a view to making a more fundamental statement, and so, as I said, if there is to be a majority in the Danish Parliament, I will look into whether that practice should not be standardized. There you can choose two paths. Either you can say that all the theatres must be taxed or that theaters should not be. There are, of course, some delimitation problems and others, and we must sit down and discuss that. But as long as this is hardly a major source of revenue for the Treasury, taxation must at least measure up to the administrative costs involved. So, as I said, I'm leaning towards the end, that is to say, looking at whether you couldn't expand the amount of theaters that are tax-free.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175942	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120175943	Thank you very much to the Minister for that reply. I would say that I sincerely welcome the fact that, just as I see this as a problem, the Minister of Taxation is willing to take action on it and clean up the mess, so you should not be fooled by the fact that there are regional theaters who have to sit and think about paying corporation tax while they have plenty to do with thinking about giving citizens good cultural experiences. So I'm really, really happy about that. But I would still like to know if the Minister is not surprised. In other words, the Minister says that this is a rule that has apparently been adopted in 2002, and now, many years later, you start to torment the lives of these theaters with that rule. And apparently in some parts of the country more than in others. When I have been inside and searching for Infomedia to see what the scale of this problem is, it is especially in North Jutland that one has apparently met the experience at SKAT that one has to pay corporation tax. Because other places haven't even heard of it yet. Is it a bit of a mess shop that is happening at SKAT at the moment, or does the Minister have a better explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180051	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180052	I think this is an expression of the complexity of the tax rules. There may also be something historical in it. I've delved into it a little bit as a result of that, sir. Rasmus Prehn has asked the question, and there may be some historical reasons. I cannot answer why, but it is, of course, unsatisfactory that you cannot get a precise answer. But that just illustrates that we have some complicated tax rules. You can then choose to accept it, or you can choose to simplify, and my starting point will be the last. But otherwise I have little more to add than what I have answered in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180135	I think the Minister is absolutely right in saying that it is extraordinarily complicated if it goes from 2002 until today, before you even discover that practices in this area have changed, and then there is a difference between one part of the country and another. It seems silly. I would like to stress once again my satisfaction and gratitude that the Minister of Taxation is saying that we should have looked at this and cleaned it up. It can't be reasonable for a regional theater to pay this corporation tax. I am very pleased about that, and I do not think that this problem is due to any party politics either. I think it is simply a matter of some bureaucratic mess that has arisen and I would be very happy if the Minister would clean this up very well and thoroughly so that you do not have to sit and have doubts about it on the theatres.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180222	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180224	Well, I'd like to take that call. If sir... Rasmus Prehn can put up with the Social Democratic Party, in my opinion, a little too many mandates, but that reflects how the electorate has voted. Then we are close to finding 90 seats to get something done about it. So I will try to hold up a majority in the Folketing on that. However, I would like to acknowledge that the question has been asked and that the question has been raised, so the matter has landed on my table and we can then jointly find a solution that is fair and fair for both theaters and the country's taxpayers, by the way. That is, those who go to the theatres.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180301	Now there was room for a political disagreement, because I am of the opinion that the Socialists have far too few mandates and that we should have even more. However, I welcome and would like to thank the Minister for Taxation for the fact that the fact that I have raised this question, moreover, at the request of the very fine journalism of Nordjyske Stiftstidende, now means that another good nordjyde, namely the tax minister, will ensure that you get a clean-up in this. Maybe it's even a real wedgie to this system, so we don't have to shake our pants about having to pay corporation tax on the theatres. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180335	That concludes Question Time here today with the good mood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160120180345	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 21 January 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
