ParlaMint-DK_20160119130031	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 13 January 2016, it was decided that responsibility for the appointment of members and alternates of the Scientific Unfairness Committees to take place in January 2016 was transferred from the Minister of Education and Research to the Minister of Justice. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). In my opinion, the Royal Resolution of 13 January 2016 provides that responsibility for the appointment of members and alternates of the Scientific Corretence Committees to take place in January 2016 is to be transferred from the Minister of Education and Research to the Minister of Justice, as questions of the suitability of the Minister of Education and Research in dealing with the cases in question could be raised. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign.: Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20160119130104	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119130114	Thank you. Since this is the first Question Time in 2016, I would like to begin by wishing the members of the Danish Parliament a happy New Year and expressing the wish for good cooperation in the year we have started, which is of course marked by major tasks, and the largest of them is in the migration and refugee situation by its very nature. There is no doubt about that. I myself described it in my New Year's speech as perhaps the biggest political crisis of this century... big words that I only take in my mouth because I mean them. Our ability to deal with this crisis will be crucial to how our society develops in the years to come. We must be able to recognise Denmark both during the crisis and when it is over. This is, of course, about the number of refugees, which is why we have tightened the conditions, but it is also about solving the integration task better than we have done historically, for the sake of the individual refugee's ability to have a good life, for the sake of the cohesion of our society and for the sake of the economy. It is not a task that can be solved here at Christiansborg in isolation, but it calls for all the forces in our society, and it is also the reason why the government invites parties outside Christiansborg to negotiate with the municipalities and tripartite discussions with the trade unions and employers' organisations to promote, in short, better integration, where the refugees who are to be with us, at least for a time, will be able to become self-supporting. We must also focus on growth throughout Denmark in 2016. Before Christmas, the government concluded an agreement on better conditions for the entire food and agricultural industry. The next step will be to conclude the negotiations that are currently under way on a new and fairer planning law, and the other initiatives in the government's growth initiative that can promote development opportunities throughout Denmark. Focusing on better education is also an area that we need to address in 2016. We have, of course, made broad agreements under the previous government on the reorganization of the primary school, and we have made agreements on the reorganization of our vocational training. This year the government will come up with a proposal for a reform of our high schools, which will make our young people better equipped to start higher education. I think we must also recognise that it is not enough that we have now looked at youth education one by one, but there is a need to take a look at them all together. There are three major challenges. Firstly, many young people do not get the right youth education for the first time, but have to take two or more. Secondly, far too many people fall away; on vocational training it is about half. Thirdly, some go to production school or a similar offer, but many have a limited benefit. It wears out the motivation, and we can see that after 7 years after completing the 9th grade it is 20 per cent. of those young people who have not even started a youth education programme. As I said in my New Year's speech, we must take it particularly seriously; the young people who lose their grip on their schooling risk ultimately losing their grip on life. It doesn't have to be like that. It shouldn't be like that. Now, knowing that it is possible to turn defeat into success against all odds with the right effort, it is double sad that many young people do not get that opportunity. For that is a human cost to the individual, and it is also an economic cost to society, because without education you risk becoming a social client. Basically, this also threatens the cohesion of our country. That is why yesterday the Minister of Education and I had a first meeting with a group of insightful people to discuss how we better give young people a constructive boost, a meeting that gave good inspiration for the future work, which among other things. This means that later this week the government will set up a group of experts on better ways of giving more young people after primary school the upper secondary education that suits them. It is my expectation that during 2016 we will be able to return to discussions here in Parliament and with the Danish Parliament's political parties on new legislation, etc. that will support it, so that more young people in the future will not only receive youth education, but that they will receive the right youth education and the right youth education for the first time than is the case today. With that, I look forward not only to the question hour here today, but to a year of work here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119130543	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. In the second round of the largest party, the questioner and Prime Minister have again up to two minutes' speaking time each, but the two follow-up questions and answers may only last 1⁄2 minutes each. The first question is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119130618	There is no doubt that we will need to be together, especially with regard to the enormous challenges on the global stage, the European and domestic scene, linked to the refugee situation. The most brutal and unhappy thing is that, at the beginning of 2016, we must note that the situation surrounding the conflict in Syria is and remains unresolved. Millions of people are fleeing, more are internally displaced, more than 4 million people are staying in neighbouring countries, the human disaster is enormous, and so is the cost to the countries concerned. The consequences of this are already recognised for Europe, and the pressure on the European border is massive, yes, I will go so far as to say that Europe's external borders have collapsed and, to put it bluntly, we need money for the people who are victims of the war. Last year, the UN estimated that it needed 8.4 billion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Only over 3 billion were found. Dollars. It must be said that it is a global declaration of failure, including a declaration of failure which we cannot afford, and if we do not strengthen the efforts of the Danish and European regions, we cannot be surprised, on the other hand, that many people are being sent on the run, nor can we be aware of this humanitarian disaster. The government has attached many words to the neighbourhood effort, but I think it has been a little small with action. In the election campaign, the Left promised an immediate slowing down of asylum seekers to Denmark; it is probably best described as a political parade number without any connection to reality. The current refugee crisis has made us come together with the government for necessary austerity, but I would like to say it very directly: I think the government is failing the second leg, namely the leg that must balance our immigration policy and, in the long term, also reduce the flow. And therefore a very specific question to the Prime Minister: is the Prime Minister himself satisfied with the efforts being made in the neighbourhoods today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119130834	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119130836	Thank you. I think it is a very fine and noble and comprehensive description of what is challenging us, and when the question is whether I am satisfied with the efforts that are being made in the neighbourhood, the answer is very clear no. If the question was whether I am satisfied with the efforts made by Denmark, then the answer is yes, because we are doing our part and we are doing our proportionate part. We were among the first countries to enter Europe's external borders in August-September, within the limits of 100 million. The euro was absolutely on the front line in order to set a European agenda that is not just on two legs, but on a series of legs, one of which is, of course, about strengthening efforts in the neighbourhood. A goal was set in Europe and we cannot be satisfied with the objectives that have been set, or rather with the achievement of them, but precisely here we have actually managed to allocate that money to UNHCR and so on. The United Nations, as formulated in the European Council, among other things. because Denmark pulled fast and gives our proportional share. On the other hand, the rest of the world community needs to take action here, because as well as this conflict cannot be resolved by Denmark alone, it cannot be solved by Europe alone. There are a number of great powers and a number of countries in the region that can reasonably be demanded to do more than they are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131013	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131015	If I may be free, I do not think you can answer both the yes and the no to the question. Because things are connected. And before Christmas there was a majority in Parliament who decided that the funds that had been saved in 2015 should, of course, go to those in the world who need them most. The government has chosen to ignore that. Therefore, you cannot answer both yes and no. It is obvious that we lack European leadership. It is obvious that we lack a European Union that takes shape and shows that Europe is able to work together quickly and effectively to help the too many people who are fleeing. It is just as clear that we need a Danish government that takes the lead in this issue and fails to cut development aid, fails to cut aid via the UN, but in return ensures that the near-area effort becomes such a framework that the far too many people who are victims of the conflicts have a tolerable everyday life. May I not ask the Prime Minister whether Denmark is taking part in the soon-to-be-call donor conference, with the participation of among others. Britain, Norway, Germany and Kuwait and, of course, in cooperation with the United Nations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131129	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131130	Yes, of course Denmark does, and we do all the more so because we have been in close dialogue all the way through. I led it myself with both David Cameron and Anna Solberg. It is, after all, a joint Norwegian-British initiative. Of course we participate there. Of course you can answer both yes and no, unless there is in the question that it is Denmark that, in isolation and by Danish money alone, must ensure that the international community effort is brought to the desired level. And I don't suppose it is. I say yes to the fact that the contribution Denmark is making is in order. We are doing our part, yes, and that also applies to development aid. We are in great company with the only five countries around the world that are complying with the UN's objectives. And I say 'no' to the fact that the international neighbourhood effort is good enough. It's not good enough. This is among other things. That is why we are taking part in the donor conference, because there is a need not least for the countries in the neighbourhood, beyond Europe, to contribute more than is the case. This is a global challenge in which Denmark must make its contribution, and precisely on this issue, in other words on humanitarian aid for the war in Syria, we have actually achieved the objective that the European countries have jointly formulated. If you're going to be a little free when Mrs Mette Frederiksen wants to be free, it might in fact be the only place where the European Union has achieved the objectives that the European Union has formulated through 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131258	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131259	But it is clear to everyone that the effort is not enough. It is obvious that efforts are not enough, whether we look at those internally displaced persons who are still in Syria or we look at overcrowded refugee camps in the neighbourhood, or we look at those refugees who come from a few countries, the conditions and conditions are of such a nature and of such a misery that we cannot be familiar with them. And if Europe's leaders with Denmark's Prime Minister do not realise it and understand it and manage to deal with this situation, the pressure on Europe's borders will only continue and perhaps even increase in strength. That is why I am missing, and that is why we need a Danish government which, of course, insists that the answers should be found globally and Europeanly, but which at the same time raises the Danish tab and takes the lead. After all, the government and the Prime Minister cannot be blind or pale to admit that when you cut down on Danish development aid, everything else is equally difficult to say that the rest of the world should not do the same. And we really need the opposite. If we want to prevent refugees from fleeing, we must give people better living conditions where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131413	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131415	Yeah, but it's pretty simple just to stand here and say we need some more money. Well, they have to be there first. And the biggest challenge for Danish development aid is not the sum, it is the fact that because of the asylum pressure we currently have, we spend an increasing proportion of development aid in Denmark to run asylum centres, to pay for the first 12 months of people's stay in Denmark, which would, of course, last much longer if they were spent in the world. We have an objective for our development aid, which is in line with the UN's objectives. We are a small, exclusive company of only five countries around the world that meet that objective. An average dancer gives to my best memory two and a half times as much as a German. Should we be ashamed of the leadership we show? Not at all. We have the full moral suitus to be able to raise the tab and tell our colleagues in Europe that they are going to their pockets. We have the full moral suitus to go to the Donor Conference in London and send the signal that others must do something more, because we are doing our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131522	Thank you, then we go to the second round, and here you only have 1⁄2 minutes each. No, first 2 minutes and then 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131537	First the two minutes: This isn't about what you can morally and what you can't morally do. After all, this is about the world and Europe facing a refugee crisis of dimensions that we have not seen since the period after the Second World War. We as countries can, of course, one by one, tighten up our asylum rules and our foreign policy. We support this on the part of the Social Democratic Party, but it is just as obvious that going to the real root of the problem requires a solution in the neighbourhood. That is why I believe that any government, including the current Danish Government, will have to recognise that what was reasonable and adequate and sufficient a few years ago is not in a situation where the refugee crisis has reached such a dimension. It would suit us, and I think it would be beneficial for Denmark's future development too, if we were to get into a completely different gear and thus get a real gear shift, in terms of what kind of assistance it is and what kind of effort we are doing in the vicinity, and the effort that will result from it. It is a Danish matter and there we need a strong voice; it is a European issue and, of course, it is a global issue. The same applies to our municipalities, because what we can see now is what many of us have been predicting and saying for a long period of time, namely that when there is such a large influx of refugees into Denmark, there will be real pressure on municipal welfare. There we have been able to observe from the first parquet a government that reports to the municipalities that it is a jam and that there is no need to discuss this with the municipalities at the moment; it is a municipal matter. But is that true? Because if you follow that logic and strategy, the consequence will be that the bill for the flow of refugees will have to be paid in the individual kindergarten, in the individual day care centre, in the individual school or in the individual elderly centre. I think that we who need to take responsibility at Christiansborg, engage in dialogue with the municipalities, make sure that it is not the close and local welfare that holds out. And I miss a feedback from the government and the Prime Minister about if we do not have to go that way instead of arrogantly rejecting any speech by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131749	Thank you. That was the two minutes. Then the PM has two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119131751	Thank you. In other words, the real root of the problem is not a question of humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood. The real root of the problem is a war and a conflict which must be resolved if we are to tackle what this is all about. And there we have some challenges that cannot be solved by Denmark either, but where we make our contribution and where, with the strong moral position we have in the world community, we must also raise our voices and call on the United States, Russia, the regional forces, to find a solution in Syria. That's what it takes. Now I understand that the Social Democratic Party, which has voted in favour of a financial law that reduces development aid to 0.7%. of GNP, has an ambition that goes further. It's noted. After all, we shall see some concrete proposals on this in the future, that is to say the millions and billions that are going to be spent extra on development aid. It's gonna be interesting. I understand that some millions and billions of extra money are now needed for the municipalities, and that must surely also be financed. It's gonna be interesting. My challenge is that we have the economy we have. The check-up we made when we arrived showed that the previous government had gone to the edge of EU rules, and indeed over the edge, when it was calculated, and that is why we have to pursue a responsible economic policy. Does this mean that I am saying that the municipalities are whining or that I do not want to engage in dialogue with the municipalities? No, not at all. I fully acknowledge that this is a challenge for the whole of Denmark and therefore also for the municipalities. That is why we have set aside 325 million. kr. extra to the municipalities in 2016 because of this task, and that is also why the government will shortly start a dialogue with the municipalities to look at, given that the municipalities will have to integrate more refugees forward-looking than they have had to do historically, if there are some things that need to be adjusted, rules etc., to make the task more clear. So we are certainly in dialogue with the municipalities, and it will probably also be the case that when the government with the municipalities later this spring discusses the economy in the future, this issue will obviously be high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132003	Thank you. Then there are two follow-up questions in 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132009	However, this is a remarkable way of starting a dialogue with the municipalities of the country, in other words to say that they are wailing when they point out that the flow of refugees has some very concrete and direct consequences for the everyday lives and lives of some ordinary people. I think it would suit the government to recognise it. Well, let's just get a little specific, 'cause I gotta get this straight. The fact that the Prime Minister of the country, together with his government, has introduced a lower registration fee, how does it benefit the situation of refugees in the country's municipalities, or how does it benefit the surrounding areas from which people flee? How can a lower registration fee be the answer at a time when the country's municipalities, one by one, report that the influx of refugees is going to have an impact on concrete welfare? Is this not a matter of priority and could it not have been a different priority in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132055	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132057	But, of course, politics is a matter of priority. After all, the registration fee is a political concession given by my government to the Liberal Alliance, for the Liberal Alliance to have participated in a financial agreement that takes Denmark the right way and pulls Denmark out of the mire in which we were left by a government that, in terms of deficits, went all the way to the edge of what must be done; which had raised taxes; that is, the world is connected. The NOx taxes had multiplied fivefold, and there had to be advertising tax and everything else that could kill growth and our businesses. We have corrected that and it comes with a price. I stand by that. Compared to the municipalities, the state pays a hundred percent for the first 12 months of a refugee in Denmark. So it is not the case that the refugees who crossed the border yesterday will be in the municipalities tomorrow. Therefore, the refugees to be dealt with by the municipalities this spring were well known when the economic agreement was made last summer. I can easily see that there is a challenge. In fact, this is also why we are now engaging in dialogue with the municipalities to see how we can provide the municipalities with instruments to make a more successful integration effort in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132208	Thank you. Last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132211	For me, it sounds like a prime minister who goes to the polls on an immediate slowing down and cannot deliver it, and when the problems start to arise, it is a matter for the municipalities of the country. However, we did, it might be said, get the full story of the reply from the Prime Minister: the lowering of registration tax is just a blue measure of interest, because it seems to be more important to hold hands under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister than it is to pursue the policy that is necessary. We know throughout Europe that if we are to prevent the enormous pressure on Europe's borders, we must make greater efforts in the neighbourhood. And we know here in the Folketing that if we do not assume responsibility, the consequence of the flow of refugees will be savings in municipal welfare. The Prime Minister of the country is like this: yes, yes, but you have to take interest and lower registration fees. However, this is a strange way to go, and I am not sure it is the one that is the most beneficial for Denmark. I am far from sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132302	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132305	But, in other words, the alternative was to make concessions to the Social Democratic Party. I mean, we saved, for example. a billion euro on our development aid, which we transferred to health care. And now there is a Social Democratic leader here saying that it was a mistake, let us send the money out of the country rather than spend it at home. We must then give priority to this in terms of how best to get through our policy. And the financial agreement we have made is a really balanced financial agreement which creates hope for growth; which makes it possible to create private jobs; which means that some of the extra taxes that Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government put on production companies in Denmark, among other things. a five-fold increase of NO x kr. extra for the integration task here this year. I think that we should not try to simplify politics in such a way. I fully acknowledge that this challenges Denmark, but one also has to understand that there is no such box of extra money that can just be drawn up. And that is why we need to have a dialogue, on the one hand with the municipalities, on how to achieve more effective integration and, on the other hand, with the social partners, on how to make these people self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132415	Thank you, Prime Minister. And thank you to the questioner. The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132421	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the opening of Question Time. There is no doubt that we can see what the most important issues to deal with are when we look at the political landscape, because that is the refugee and migrant situation, and that is at all levels. It challenges our social structure and challenges our welfare society. We have had an inventory of what the immediate measurable things like benefits for refugees, accommodation, etc. up to 2020 costs and we are talking about amounts of up to 48 billion. kr. It's quite, quite violent. At the same time, of course, it challenges our whole cohesion, our ability as a society to feel community. We can also see this from the discussions on local challenges, for example. about the fact that asylum seekers go to discotheques, or about what happens • how many Danes start to feel more and more insecure. At the same time, there is a discussion about who should pay the bill. Should the state or should the municipalities? I would say that we understand how the municipalities react. They are, of course, faced with some of the practical challenges ahead of them, such as those that provide well-being to citizens and need to make things work together. At the same time, however, we must stress that whether it is the municipality or the state treasury that pays, it is the same Danes, the same taxpayers who have to cough up the money, and therefore it is much more interesting for us to discuss how the total bill will be reduced. It is in this light that I would like to ask the Prime Minister how it can be that he still thinks it can be done to drive the integration road and get so many people who come in such a short time, integrated into Danish society. Is it not time to recognise that this cannot be done because the number is important for the success of integration and that we therefore need to help in a way that is temporary and so that people really come back to their immediate areas and preferably to their home country when the opportunity is available? Based on the DREAM model, the Rockwool Foundation has previously made an inventory showing that non-Western immigration to Denmark burdened the public boxes with 16.6 billion. kr. The Prime Minister himself mentioned the same things in his opening speech back in October... the integration has failed. So the question is simple: why does the Prime Minister believe that integration is the way forward when we look forward in time when it has not been the answer when we look back?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132643	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132644	Thank you. I don't think that's the whole answer either, but it's part of the answer. First of all, I am very pleased with the way in which the whole problem is being drawn up and also the context in which it is being conducted, because this debate about whether the state has to pay, whether the municipalities have to pay, is a rather strange debate, because in the back there are the Danes, and there are only the Danes to pay. It is not the case that the state has some special money that you can then just take at no cost to the Danes. So it's a liability for all of us. I'd love if there was just an easy solution, so you could solve this problem with a fingertips that would be really, really nice. As I see it, this case has three dimensions if we're going to handle it right. One is number. We have to do what we can to keep the numbers down. That is why we have made a large number of tightening ups of family reunification rules and other things, and that also has effect. When you compare Denmark with Germany and Sweden, you can see that the number has doubled between 2014 and 2015 in those countries, and yes, it has increased in Denmark in 2015, but not at all at the same level. The second is about handling, i.e. how the immediate task that needs to be solved in the municipalities is handled. We have, for example. a three-year integration programme, and that is very long-suffering. Can it be tightened up? We have a requirement for the size of recipient classes. Can it be made more flexible, can we cheapen it and can we make it more effective? Then there is a third element, whether you like it or not, which is that regardless of the first two things, there are people who come to Denmark, who get refugee status and who have no prospect of returning home within a short period of time, and there it is in the interests of all of us that this is how I see it contributing to making them self-sufficient, rather than being dependent on public support. Therefore, it is a bottom-up task that we should do better tomorrow, as we did badly yesterday, namely to get those people out on the Danish labour market so that they earn their own money, rather than being collectively supported by the Danes who were here first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132844	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119132846	I was just able to mention in the first round that in his opening speech the Prime Minister addressed some of the same issues and stated that the integration has so far failed. After 1 year in Denmark, only one in ten refugees are in work or in education. It's depressing. After four years, it's only a third. It's sad. And of all immigrants from non-western countries, not even half are at work, although many have been here for 10, 20 or 30 years. That is deeply, deeply regrettable. It was the Prime Minister's words in October. It was on the basis of the figures that came. Now in 2015 we have over 1 million in Europe; we have 20,000 in Denmark, 25,000 this year, maybe the same number, maybe more in 2017, 2018, 2019 we don't know. Then there are family reunions, so you can multiply the number by two, three, four. We don't know what ends up with that either. At any rate, it is just a lot more, and it is many more than has come historically. If it is then a finding that integration has failed in relation to the number of immigrants who have arrived in the past, why is it, then, that the Prime Minister believes even with all the good intentions of looking at some individual tools • that integration will succeed in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133002	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133003	I think the number is 1.8, that is, what you have to multiply by, if you look at the historical contexts. It is true that I have described the historical figures as both worrying and sad: one who is self-supporting after one year, less than three out of ten after three years, about one third after four years. But because the historical results are both worrying and sad, that can never be an argument for not trying to do better because what is the alternative? Well, what's the alternative if you think about it right? I do not know how many of them came last year to receive asylum. There were 21,000, but they are not all granted asylum, but, in other words, a large part of them are granted asylum. Is the alternative to fence them in behind barbed wire or what? And then say: Here you can sit passively for 5 years, for 8 years, for 10 years, until the war in Syria is over. Is that it? It's not a viable alternative to me. I am Prime Minister of the real world and have to deal with the real world. We do what we can, and it's not easy. If it had been, we might have left it to somebody else. We do what we can to try to keep the number under control, cheapen the way the task is done, among other things. by now discussing with the municipalities whether things can be done differently in the future. But there remains a residual challenge. There are people who come to; there are people who are protected by the conventions, who have an international legal right to be here and where there is a prospect that they will be here for a number of years. I have to insist that, although it is difficult, we must have made those people self-supporting. What makes me hopeful? I'm not naive. But what makes me hopeful is that there is increasing recognition that there must also be in the labour market that if we do not get this job done, it displaces welfare; then it displaces the possibility of lowering the tax; then it displaces the possibility that we can gain prosperity in this society in the long term. That is what gives me a little hope that we can do this better in the future than we have done in history.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133158	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133159	In other words, the study I referred to earlier shows that Western immigrants in Denmark make a positive contribution to public finances; non-western immigrants have a considerable burden. The Prime Minister himself mentioned in his opening speech that not even half of the people from non-western countries are in work, even after having been in Denmark for 10, 20 and 30 years. Now we're talking about whether there'll be 25,000 in 2016. It's the government's own prognosis. Although we only have to multiply by small two in quotation marks, we are talking about up to 50,000 people in one year. What is the alternative to believing that they can be integrated? If you do not think you can integrate them, you will end up where a large part of these people will be on permanent public support and withdraw welfare from the Danes, and you will have to consider a change. And a change could be made, for example. mean that you say to these people: you get the protection you are entitled to, but in Denmark you get it only really temporarily, not with the perspective of getting life-long support in Danish society. What exactly would that mean right away? This would mean that very many of these people, who are migrants and not refugees, will not come to Denmark at all. They are not at all interested in temporary protection; they are interested in getting a permanent new place of residence for themselves and their families. But it could solve a large part of the challenges for Danish society and for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133320	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133322	Well, I think we are in complete agreement with the analysis of what challenges it poses for a small harmonious society like the Danish one that we face with this pressure. We agree on that. I also believe that we agree a little along the way on what should then be done about it. that we must work intently to keep the number under control. Where it is obvious that we have a disagreement is that I feel strongly that I have to deal with the reality that, despite what we do to tighten up the living conditions, despite what we do to support a European agenda, this is an aspect that we have not talked about today, but we have to do something more, so make the Greeks look after their borders, otherwise at some point it will have to have some Schengen consequences and others will be people coming to Denmark. And how do we deal with that task in a situation where there is no prospect that the wars from which they have fled will end? Because if they haven't escaped from a war, they don't need asylum, do they? And if they are granted asylum for reasons which are not eligible for protection, then we need to look at who we are actually granting asylum, and that is the way to attack it. But for those who come with a worthy purpose of protection and who have fled from something that there is a prospect that they will not return to quickly, we have to go home, so that is how I see it, we may disagree, to do everything we can and make every effort to make sure that they are able to support themselves. Otherwise, there is only one other person to stand for that support, and that is the ordinary Danish taxpayer, and I do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133457	Thank you to the Prime Minister and to the questioner. The next is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133507	I would also like to ask about the refugees and the local authorities' costs in relation to the many refugees who are coming. After all, the municipalities have a large number of tasks when refugees arrive. Refugees must have Danish education, and housing must be found, and reception classes must be made, and there is a medical check-up, and what do I know? This is all something that is really, really important for integration. I very much agree with the Prime Minister that we need to find a way to make integration work much better. Plays here, among other things. Danish education is a crucial role. The only problem is that the municipalities are not adequately compensated financially for the very high costs and tasks they face. It can be said that, in this way, when the municipalities receive a lot of extra costs despite the promises made by the Left during the election campaign about the so-called immediate slow-down, which did not happen, they have not very many handles to pull in. Now I heard the Prime Minister and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl say that it may not be so crucial whether it is the state or the municipalities that have to find this money. Yes, it is. The Minister of Finance has everything else equally important more handles to turn on than the municipalities have. The municipalities will choose where they will then cut down on whether it should be in the area of the elderly, whether it should be in the area of children, whether it should be in the area of people with disabilities. Actually, I don't think that's fair. That is not a fair priority. This is not a proper way of dealing with the fact that, despite the Prime Minister's promises of immediate slowing down in the area of refugees, there will be a great many refugees. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister, ask the government: what are you going to do to help the municipalities so that it is not our kindergartens and our nurseries and our nursing homes and people with disabilities who are going to pay the price and are going to notice it every day because more refugees are coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133709	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133711	First of all, one can be pleased that it is not Enhedslisten's policy that is being pursued, because then the pressure described here would have been significantly greater. Because our tightening has taken some of the pressure. Enhedslisten hasn't wanted to be part of any of it. So if we had listened to Enhedslisten, there would have been a policy in Denmark, so perhaps you had seen the same growth in the number of asylum seekers as has been seen in our neighbouring Germany and Sweden, where you saw that the number doubled between 2014 and 2015, and then there would be serious pressure on municipal nursery schools and municipal care for the elderly. It doesn't shake the fact that that pressure is there. I take it very, very seriously, but we must also keep the proportions in place. It is true that, firstly, the refugees who come into the municipalities today are not those who crossed the border. It is the case that the state stands for the whole of the first phase crown to crown. We are financing it through development aid in the first period. That's also why this discussion only comes now and didn't come a year ago, because until now it's just solved in goose eyes, by the fact that money that should otherwise be sent out of Denmark for development aid is spent in Denmark, and at least the municipalities are not responding to that. That's one thing. The second point is that part of the costs which the municipalities also have for integration benefits, Danish education and employment efforts are part of our refund system, where there is therefore state money behind it. The third dimension is that the agreement concluded with the municipalities last summer included 325 million. kr. Exceptionally off. Does this mean that I do not recognise that there is pressure? No. I fully recognise that there is pressure, and that is precisely why I announced in my New Year's speech that we are now starting two-party discussions with the municipalities to look at the task that the municipalities will have when more refugees arrive. Can it be handled differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119133907-2	Thank you. The fact is, Prime Minister, that the municipalities do not receive sufficient financial compensation from the state to carry out the huge task they face, namely to integrate the many refugees that are coming. And the Prime Minister and the government have yet to give the municipalities an answer, because they are shouting in arms out there. This is also the case from the Prime Minister's own party colleagues, the Left Mayors, who say that if the government does not act and I am not talking about a municipal agreement for 2017, it is in 2016, that there will be a lack of 2-3 billion in the municipalities. kr. I know that the Minister for Finance's reply to the municipalities has been: you are wailing. I mean, I think it's crazy that it was the finance minister's answer, that the municipalities are wailing. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Minister of Finance that the reports coming from the municipalities, including from the mayors of the Left, are just groaning?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134015	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134018	I am trying to take this debate a little more seriously than just saying yes and no to such slogans. I fully recognise that there is pressure on our welfare society • I think it might be a little more difficult when the questioner acknowledges it • and that is why we have said from the outset that we need to do something to bring down the number of asylum seekers so that it gets under control. We have to do something to get these people done self-help so they make their own money. Because if we do not succeed, then all the room for manoeuvre that would otherwise be in the coming years in the Danish economy that we could use to improve care for the elderly or education or research or perhaps if one dares think a naughty thought • create something more growth and prosperity by putting some taxes down, spent on this. So don't blame us for not taking this seriously. We take it super seriously by putting our backs on a tight policy, and I take it completely seriously that this puts pressure on service costs in the long term. This is precisely why, of our own motion, we have called the National Association of Municipalities for two-part discussions to discuss what the tools are for this task. For the answer cannot always or only be: Send more money. Therefore, we would like to start by discussing whether there is anything in the set of rules, in the demands we make on the way recipient classes are organised, in the demands we make on housing accommodation and the kind that can be adjusted, so that it becomes more flexible, so that it is easier for the municipalities to solve this task, which I fully recognise is difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134152	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134154	But sometimes the answer, Prime Minister, is to send more money. This is especially so in a situation where expenditure is growing significantly, while the mayors have no other option but to cut back on our elderly, our children and people with disabilities. I have to say that I think the Prime Minister is slipping off smoothly like an eel one refuses to relate to the fact that the Minister of Finance's response to the municipalities, answers to the elderly who fear cuts, answers to the children who are at risk of having fewer adults taking care of them in the day institutions, are: you are wailing. I actually think it would be relevant, and I also think there are Left Mayors who would like to get an answer if the Prime Minister said if you agreed that it is just a jam or if the government is actually going to do something to solve the problem in 2016 • not even, but here and now • and help the mayors, help the municipalities to solve this huge task, which is there and which is expensive, or whether you are going to do nothing. 'Cause the instant call didn't work, Prime Minister. Reality's out there. I heard the Prime Minister say that the Prime Minister is really Prime Minister. The reality is that we need to cut back. What does the government intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134309	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134310	I have, of course, answered that question on several occasions: yes, in some cases the situation may well be to send more money. We have done the same. That is why we are sending the municipalities 325 million. kr. extra this year on top of what they were supposed to have, given this assignment. However, one can only help to draw some simple solutions when one is in charge of a policy, by the way. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen does that because, if it had been passed through, the task of the municipalities next year would not have been the size we know today, but perhaps it would have been twice as large. I mean, it's free tickets. And what kind of money are you going to send out, and where are they going to come from? I fully recognise that there is pressure on the entire Danish welfare community. We take responsibility by tightening up to bring the number under control, by starting work with the social partners in order to get these people done self-helply. We must succeed better with • and thirdly, and we have invited the municipalities to start a binding debate on what opportunities the municipalities will have to solve this task. Because before you put on price tags, it might make sense to sit down and discuss whether the price could go down, whether there are some things we can do differently. Could the way we measure a recipient class how many pupils there should be in a recipient class, e.g. be different? Could the requirements we make for housing placement be different? Could it be cheaper? Could the framework we have for the whole integration programme be shorted of? Such a discussion has a bearing on what kind of a derived financial burden is left behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134443	Thank you. The question is closed. Then we've got Mr. Knox. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134453	First of all, I would like to say that Danish politics is moving all the time, and it was very enjoyable to hear Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen tells us this weekend that the idea launched by the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance 11⁄2 years ago has now become the policy of the Social Democrats, namely that we should help the refugees in the neighbourhood, in refugee camps there. Danish politics has moved a lot, so now the Social Democrats are on it too. This is important because it is part of reducing the increasing costs we have for the refugees who come here and who could be much better helped elsewhere. That's the point too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had to deal with the total bill. I would also like to acknowledge that DREAM calculations were referred to in this context, because this is something that the Liberal Alliance trusts in it and then calculations from the Ministry of Finance. But when you see the money bouncing out of the Treasury, you shouldn't just picture it if it was a bathtub, just look at the water running out and make sure it is patched up. This must be done, but at the same time we must ensure that new water is put in the bathtub. And that is where, of course, the tax policy of the Liberal Alliance comes in, because one thing is a discussion of who gets how much out of tax cuts. But what is important in the discussion about taxes is that it increases our prosperity in Denmark. It makes us richer, it makes sure that more people get to work, and we can do that too little. We also missed that discussion a little last week when the Prime Minister chose to postpone the tax negotiations until the autumn. Speaking of the picture: You just look at it coming out, concentrate on collecting on it instead of starting to get money back into the treasury. If this kr. I believe that people sitting watching it on television can barely see how little it costs. If we want to further remove the rest of the top tax and thus increase employment by up to 16,000 per year, this is what we are talking about, such a small piece of 4 cm 2 Can't the Prime Minister confirm that it can't be a big challenge for a bourgeois-liberal government to get that money out of the overall budget and thus ensure that no one pays over 42 per cent. in the treasure of the last earned crown in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134728	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134729	This was very illustrative and impressive of a liberal politician. If it had been someone from the left, it would probably have been pointed at the four holes in the bottom of the paper, and said: shouldn't we cover those tax holes at the bottom? No, silly. Well, I am fully aware that if you do an exercise that is isolated about top tax, then due to dynamic effects and such things there is no need for funding crown to crown. But that does not shake the fact that the matter has a complexity that goes beyond that. Because when we are asked whether it would not be easy for a bourgeois-liberal government to find the money, we can say: yes, that is the one dimension, then we must also find the votes. After all, we live in a democracy governed by the people. I fully admit that this country needs us to do something on the tax side to ensure that it pays better to work. People with ordinary incomes who get up every morning and go to work and work, and who see that the benefit of doing so rather than not being huge, I would like to give a tax relief. It is not a top tax credit, it is a tax relief somewhere else on the scale. I also admit that, particularly in relation to the people who get good wages, without being able to call them extravagant and our companies are in direct competition with other countries; where is it that the chemical engineer is hired, is it in a pharmaceutical company in Denmark, in a company in the Netherlands or in Belgium? But I have already said there that we can hardly, in other words politically, do one without doing the other. And that's why it's a bigger exercise. When I have changed the roadmap, it is not because I have relaxed at my level of ambition on the contrary. Then it is because I have the very clear analysis that if this project is to succeed, so that it will not just be mouthstorm, but something that brings together a majority, then we need to have a longer run-in. And one of the keys is that this spring, together with the social partners and the municipalities, we must responsibly show the way for us to believe together that this integration task will enable the new ones among us to become more self-reliant in the future than they have been in the past. It's an important stone that needs to be rolled off the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134941	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119134944	Thank you for your answer. I also assume, as a matter of course, that the Prime Minister can confirm that the little exercise up here in the corner All calculations, both from DREAM and from the Ministry of Finance, point out that the sovereign is the most effective tool we have to increase employment. It is also in a situation where a top tax payer rather than having to earn 700 kroner. to give a craftsman 100 DKK. In the hand, you can make only $2.50 (U.S.). to give the craftsman 100 DKK. in the hand. The amount of less undeclared work alone, the increase in prosperity and the increase in tax revenue that comes out of it are, after all, good for all of us. But I agree that it is important to be ambitious, even at the bottom of the tax system, so I would like to illustrate, both to the Prime Minister, but also to the rest of the Folketing and to the wondering population who may sit out there, what it costs to make sure that no Dane in work pays tax on the first DKK 7.000. you earn every month, i.e. zero tax on the first 7,000 kroner. There was once a party that was in favour of zero tax at work at all, but we just say the first DKK 7.000. It costs this small piece of total tax revenue 7 m 2 Doesn't the Prime Minister also agree with me that it's not an insurmountable task to find that amount • 42 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135102	Thank you. I would say that paper ejaculation is also included in the speaking time. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135107	This whole rip-up thing is gonna wake up memories. I don't know what I'm gonna think about. But the political challenge is that when Anders Samuelsen wants to tear up the paper, some people think it is not big enough at all. So, we have just had some questioners here who have concentrated on one thing: how can we get the public to use something more, how can we expand the service framework of the municipalities? Therefore, I have to say that I think I have such a reasonable picture of how the different screws in the engine room can be adjusted and what it costs to screw them down or halfway or to loosen them a little. That does not detract from the political complexity of the task. I have no doubt that if we are to succeed with a reform agenda that ensures more growth and prosperity in Denmark in the long term, meet a goal that it will pay better to work, make Denmark more competitive and ensure that our companies can recruit the skilled international labour force, then we need a slightly longer run, where we see some things in a context. And one element is that of the integration task and asylum policy. Another element is to look at, when we throw a slightly longer light into the Danish economy, what it is then for a room for manoeuvre that is the next 7-8 years. Can anything be done to make it bigger? And that is why I have not dampened any ambition in relation to what is described in the government base, but, on the contrary, have said that, in view of the crisis we are in, it is more likely that we will be able to fulfil our own ambitions if we give ourselves a little longer impetus. As far as I am concerned, it cannot be decisive whether the negotiations start in April or September, because whatever tax concessions are granted for one financial year at a time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135244	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135248	In this way, I understood that the Prime Minister, if he looks at it for his own party, agrees with me, and I am glad that this does not represent much of the cost of the entire welfare community. It is also the case that we can afford a welfare society, after we have limited the budget with the tiny corner, against giving the Danes the great pleasure that the first DKK 7,000 they earn every month, they should not pay a penny in taxes. After all, it also has the side effect in relation to what the Prime Minister started the debate with today, namely the debate on refugees and the possibility of making integration work better and getting people into the labour market, that it gives people a much greater opportunity to enter the labour market, that you are not too expensive compared to the tax that you have to pay, because tax helps to increase the cost of labour. That's why it's important to get the treasure down. When at the same time we know that if we do this exercise, we bake a bigger cake, and then we can at the same time delight the left wing, because that actually creates the possibility that there is even more to fund all their welfare wishes. So in this way one should think that we should be able to find each other, and I hope that what comes out of the discussion that was last week, and perhaps also from the debate we have here today, is that we can gather not only to discuss who gets how much, but what it is we get from having the tax policy as part of the value policy both better integration, more people who get an opportunity to get to work, and a richer Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135409	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135411	Well, it's a pious wish and a good ambition to have, and both must be tested when we get there. It is not because I have to insist that everything is difficult and complicated, but perhaps just a little, because we started the debate here today with some questions from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on how to solve this asylum influx: We don't integrate And now we stand here in a debate about how to solve the future, you can say, lack of carrying capacity financially: We tear a corner of a piece of A4 paper I just think I have to say that I understand both analyses, and I kind of share both ambitions, both in getting our asylum numbers under control and in ensuring some future growth and prosperity by facilitating the costs for our companies by ensuring that it is better for ordinary Danes to work. And then the task is to get it translated into something that is not just a corner of a piece of A4 paper, but something that works out in the real reality. So I can establish that the government's ambitions are intact, and I look forward to reaching the other side of the summer break, where the government can put forward a 2025 plan, as well as the government's proposals for decisions that can support it in a way that we can also fulfil our desire to reduce the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135537	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135546	It was quite illustrative to see Mr. Anders Samuelsen tears Denmark's economy to shreds just before. I actually believe that many people find that many things are tearing Denmark apart. That is why I have also written an open letter to the Prime Minister today. This is the first time I've ever written an open letter. Apparently, I was supposed to be 61 years old before I got there. The reason for this is, of course, that our conversation in this Chamber is very short, three questions, three answers and so on in the text. The reason why I wanted to write an open letter was the conversations I have had with a great many citizens over the last few months, but also colleagues, both in Sweden and in Germany. As recently as the last week I have held meetings both south of the German border, but also in Malmö, and everywhere I get the question: What is happening in Denmark right now? They ask from abroad: How can it be that we have ended up where we have a bad relationship with our nearest neighbours? The citizens I am talking to ask: why can we not find a way in here in the Parliamentary Chamber to deal with the enormous challenges we face? I have certainly never experienced in my life such a divided and doubtful Denmark as I do at the moment. Therefore, of course, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister also experiences the division in society, a division between country and city, a division between us in here at Christiansborg, a division out in our families about what we want with Denmark, what kind of Denmark we want to build up where we want Denmark to go. And I'm really, really worried about that. This is something that my party is concerned about, but it goes much deeper. Across the party I hear questions that are: How the hell do we manage to deal with the challenges we face, and why can't you find out about it inside Christiansborg? So my first question is: how does the Prime Minister experience what is happening right now? Is the Prime Minister also experiencing the divisiveness and doubts of the talks the Prime Minister has with citizens, interest groups, companies, cultural personalities? Is that the same picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135802	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119135804	Thank you for that and thank you for the open letter. And better late than never. I wrote my first, when I went to the County Council, a complaint that our bicycle racks were not covered. I have read it with interest and would also like to try to take it down positively. However, I just have to say that I do not recognise the picture of our having a bad relationship with our neighbouring countries. In other words, I have been in close dialogue with the Prime Minister of Schleswig-Holstein, with the Chancellor, my ministers have been in dialogue with their colleagues both in Sweden and Germany about the concrete steps we have taken, and I actually sense that there is a great deal of understanding for the way we have handled it. When asked about division, I would say that I recognize that picture, all the more so as I can feel it inside myself. I'm torn up myself. I believe that all sensible thinking people are divided in themselves by what we are witnessing at this time. When we see what we see in Cologne, you might be able to reach some pretty quick conclusions about how to solve all this in a private conversation with yourself. When you see in your own eyes some of the children who with their parents have been fleeing from war and destruction, and where this one is just financial migrants... so obviously have nothing on them, your heart bleeds. So I think that most Danes in themselves can experience this division between whether we should open the door, if we should close the door. And if we want to promote a proper conversation, I think we need to take that starting point, because the time is not for simple answers. It is not possible to just close the door, turn your back on and enjoy yourself in secret and pretend that there is no such thing. But it is not possible to just open the door and leave it wide open and say: get inside, and if someone else wants to take the chance now that it is still open, and who is on the run from poverty, but not war, then just come along. So this matter has to be resolved by some sort of balance, and I think that the most important contribution we can make here is to talk about things in a balanced way and not to tell people that there is an easy solution, that is, whether it is that we simply print some extra money, and then we do not feel the effects in the municipalities at all, or that is: we just shut the door and do not let anyone in. And that's kind of the contribution to bridge this division that I'm going to insist on making myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140052	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140054	I was glad that the Prime Minister used the picture to build bridges, because we should do that, and we have a long tradition of it • it's something Denmark can, we're pretty good at building bridges. The Prime Minister tells of the conversations he has had with good colleagues in Germany and Sweden and says that they experience that the dialogue has been fine and good and that they can understand what has happened. I can then say that I have met the Danish minority, the Greens, businessmen and university people just south of the border in Germany, and I have attended a similar meeting in Sweden, and in both places they say that what is happening right now is that psychological walls are being built between Denmark and Germany and between Denmark and Sweden. So they experience that it is much more complex and also threatening and problematic than what the Prime Minister is outlining here. On the other hand, I like the Prime Minister actually saying that we have to deal with the conflict in a brilliant way. We disagree deeply, but how do we deal with the conflict? So my question to the Prime Minister is whether the Prime Minister will take the lead in a national conversation about how we deal with the disagreement that is deep in the rooms, about where Denmark is going. I think it is absolutely essential that the Prime Minister should take the lead in this. That's what the prime minister can do... the prime minister is also my prime minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140223	We must also be open and honest about the fact that there are, of course, some political divisions which are completely separate from the situation we are in and which also have implications in the situation we are in. After all, we do not suddenly become brothers and a hundred per cent consensus country, because there is now a refugee crisis we must respect for that. When I called civil society's summit many months ago, it was clearly aware that although this matter shares its dimensions, for example. As to how much we need to tighten up to get the number under control, it does not shake the fact that there is a task next to it. It can then be larger or smaller, depending on how to solve the first task, if you believe that living conditions matter, but there is, of course, the whole challenge of integration. It is with the fact that for a number of years to come we have to live with people who have come here with a different cultural background from ours and with a different standard set as a starting point, and that there is a huge risk that it creates chasm and that they end up as social clients, unless we take the spoon into the other hand. And in solving that task, we all need to be united, and that is what I am appealing for. I appeal to you to think differently about how many are to come, but when people have arrived, whether it is less or more than what you want from your own political point of view, we have a common responsibility as a nation to solve it in the best possible way. It is a challenge to civil society, it is a challenge to the political parties, which are also part of civil society, and it is a challenge to the social partners, to the municipalities and to our education sector. And that is what we are taking the lead in with the two negotiations that I have described earlier today that we are now on the way to starting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140407	Thank you, Prime Minister. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140414	Yes, praise for the initiatives I just think it is important to be even more ambitious on them and even more popular on them, i.e. get that conversation out in far more public spaces than at a close meeting at Marienborg, which in itself is fine, but which in my optics is not enough at all. Of course, politics is a difference of opinion, but politics is also a conflict. What I'm actually just appealing to is how we deal with these conflicts or how we deal with them. I do not see the refugee crisis as the most important crisis for Denmark; I see much more that we are in a crisis of value. That is the great challenge seen from where I stand. The last question I would like to ask comes, as usual, from the Members of the Alternative, and it also has something to do with refugees. You ask the Prime Minister whether it is reasonable to compare the economic conditions of a refugee with the financial conditions of a recipient of cash benefits, when the conditions of a recipient of cash benefits imply that he has both housing and articles of use and furniture and networks. How can you even compare the two sizes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140523	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140526	I think it is fair to compare them, otherwise we would not have done so either. It's based on the fact that we speak values... that we basically have a value in this society, which is based on universal rights, access to education and education, to health care and everything else, that is, to provide for oneself if one can. That is the demand we make for ourselves and for Danish citizens, for example. is aimed at providing cash benefits because of a social event. You don't get that if you have a free fortune of 10,000 kroner. That is why I think it is both proper and reasonable in every way to make the same demands. I also think, as we have this discussion on how we promote, that we have to have that dimension in popular understanding and harmony. So, what would it mean for the conversation among Danes in the broadest sense if we had a system in which an asylum seeker was financially treated better than a Danish aid recipient? Would it promote or not promote understanding quite broadly in Danish society for us to have a task here for which we must also take our share of responsibility? That is why I appeal to the issue of balances. I am happy to participate in discussions, both at Christiansborg and Marienborg and around Denmark, about this, and it is not certain that we can agree on it all, but I believe that the answers must be found in a balance. So, the pure point of view doesn't survive the reality of this discussion... whether this pure point of view is that we can't help anyone or that it's that we have to help everyone. The pure point of view does not survive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140705	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk and the Prime Minister. Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140711	I would like to start by meeting the Prime Minister so much that I would like to say that I agree that this is a situation which does not contain easy answers. It is deeply complicated and a huge challenge, and that is why it is crucial to hold onto your values and what you believe in when you have to navigate in a situation that is so unpredictable. The Prime Minister said earlier that we should be able to recognise ourselves and that we should be able to know Denmark. I believe the hand in the heart that there are many who find it difficult to know themselves in some of the measures taken. I saw how the Left's political rapporteur on international television almost had to invent a new interpretation of the law on the confiscation of the values carried by refugees, presumably in order to know himself in that proposal. But running away from the reality that you are creating is of no use. I also think that many people find it difficult to know a Denmark that now again requires passports if you are going to Sweden or where you are going to be subject to border controls if you are going from Germany to Denmark. That is why it is important to hold onto some of the things you believe in. The Prime Minister also said he was prime minister in the real world. In the autumn I think the rhetoric was that the reality had been overtaken by the fact that the refugee situation could be stopped immediately. What is really needed is immediate integration, and I really think it was sensible to hear the clear answer that was given today, namely that that is what is now the task. But this is not just a question for the social partners and for the municipalities of the country. It is, of course, very much a task for the state. From the moment people come here and the asylum procedure starts, months are now, indeed, I think we will come over a year before you come out and approach a municipality. That is why my first question is whether the Prime Minister will not take himself and the reality so seriously that the spoon is now being taken in the other hand and instead of constantly putting people on stand-by and on a sidetrack so that, in fact, from the first day of a Danish asylum centre, the resources are being used to see: what can we clarify by competences, how can we resolve health issues as quickly as possible, so that people actually have a chance to become self-supporting as quickly as possible? That would be a worthy integration from the first day in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140922	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119140924	Thank you. Yes, one must recognize oneself, which is why one must recognize the description of the way one speaks oneself. It may have been a slip of the tongue, but when Mr. Morten Østergaard here says that Denmark now requires passports when you go to Sweden, so I just have to say that it does Denmark Well, it is something that the Swedes have decided, and that may be some nuances that disappear when you communicate things. No, the government is not in favour of the fact that, on the first day you come to Denmark and submit an application for asylum, you have to integrate the labour market or whatever word we want to use. We do not do so, and that is linked to the fact that not everyone is seeking asylum. Here again I have to insist that it may be a little more complicated than that. We must take our responsibility, but we must not appear so extraordinarily attractive that it in itself attracts people. We know that, alongside those who seek asylum because they are persecuted and therefore have a legitimate reason and a worthy purpose of protection and also have asylum, there are also people who are in search of a better life. If we designed our terms in such a way that we said that when you reach Denmark and set foot on Danish soil and submit an asylum request, then there is work and everything, completely without having a protection basis, then it would be tempting. That is why we say that we want to tighten the living conditions, because we do not want Denmark to be a refugee magnet. We fully recognise that when people come and are granted refugee status, they must be integrated. After all, this is the discussion we would like to have now with both the municipalities and the social partners, namely how it can be done more effectively. This, of course, also stems from all of this being a demand for the asylum procedure to be effective, because I fully recognise that if you come here, whether you are not supposed to be here, because you are not entitled to be here at all, or if you are entitled to be here, it is nice to have it uncovered as soon as possible so that people can be sent out again if they are not to be here, or if they can move on in life if they are to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141142	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141144	In this context, it may be necessary to recognise that the number matters. In other words, when there are as many as there are, the processing time increases. That is why the reality is that people are today sitting for up to 10 months before the asylum case even starts. That is to say, the solution of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, the one about parking people, whom the Prime Minister swept away as a model that does not work, is the one the government is currently serving in the Danish asylum centres. I think that the recognition rate at present. is 86 per cent. And there is already procedure for those applicants who are manifestly groundless; they are rejected immediately. That is why the question is whether the Prime Minister is prepared to be Prime Minister in reality, namely the fact that those who are coming now are very much recognised, but where unfortunately the situation is that integration into the labour market is not moving fast enough. Will you take stock of that reality and listen to the municipalities' prayer that time in the asylum centres will not be wasted? Will you listen to the willingness of the labour market to actually use some of these people as quickly as possible? Do you want to take stock of it? Otherwise, I fear that the integration effort will be more expensive than it needs to be, because the results will of course be the same as all the other times when people have been tried to isolate themselves, because they believe that they can suddenly enter the labour market from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141303	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141305	Thank you. Now, I think that you can listen to reality without one of you sticking to the Radical Left just said this at the start of all peaceableness. But this might describe very well that the world is not that simple. If you just listen to the questions that have been here today, you have to say, if I do not hear much wrong, that the approach, Mr President. Morten Østergaard is meeting in with, well so close to being diametrically opposed to it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl joins us. And it's not because the truth has to lie somewhere in between, but still. Facing the reality is not just a question of how many asylum seekers cross the border today. It is also a question of how many will be coming tomorrow. And right now in combination with winter and probably also because of some new Swedish signals that have been sent out over recent months and that have been followed up by Norway, Finland, Denmark and Germany at the German-Austrian border, there is no great pressure in these days. But it is not a guarantee that it will not increase again when the snow melts and spring comes. That is why I have to insist on finding a balance where, on the one hand, we have on the one hand some conditions of residence which we can vouch for, which are decent and contractual, but which, on the other hand, do not have an unnecessary attractiveness, and, on the other hand, some means that when people are here, we do the job. And it's a balance. I would say that if we were to create a system that said that if you come to Denmark, whether you are entitled to asylum or not, you are only from day one a safe dwelling outside the camps, secured work etc., it would have a compelling effect, which would make us have more of the young men from Africa and elsewhere who are not necessarily fleeing from a war but are on the run for a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141518	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141522	When I took that starting point, it was because it was the Prime Minister who swept Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's solution. I was so intrigued by the fact that I thought it might be that one was willing to take the consequences of one's own words, but the world seems not that good. I know that I have at least interpreted it as saying that the government is not really very proud to have felt called to introduce border controls between Denmark and Germany. It could therefore be that I could get a very concrete answer as to whether the Prime Minister can today lift the veil of what it takes before you are ready to remove it again and normalize the state at the Danish borders. It's kind of a simple question. I guess that's what you've been thinking. That is why the last question I would like to ask is: what conditions must be met before Denmark abandons temporary border controls at Germany? And I guess that's what the government wants, that's to normalize the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141616	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141619	Thank you. It was, of course, a little hopeful on the part of the author, namely that if you disagree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, one had to per. Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. It's nice to find out that there's something in between. We have extended Danish border controls until 3 February, and before we hit 3 February, we will decide whether there are preconditions for maintaining it or for adjusting the kind of border controls that are being carried out. There will be many things involved in that consideration. It will be the question of how the flow of asylum is up through Europe, what the Swedes are doing and what they are not doing, how the figures are evolving. It is not easy to put on a formula. I can say that, at the moment, no decision has been taken on what will happen after 3 February.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141705	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141713	Thank you. I would like to follow a little in the wake of my colleagues on the situation in the neighbouring regions of Syria, because the Prime Minister has said again and again today that the number of refugees coming to Europe's borders must be reduced and that we must have the number under control. I think it is for all of us that we would like there to be fewer refugees. I do not think we can disagree on that. And I also believe that we would all like to see peace in Syria, so there was no such problem at all. Now we are in a situation where pressure is being put on, among other things. the regions concerned. Many analyses suggest that in the summer of 2015, among other things, the increased number of refugees from the neighbouring regions around Syria. is caused by cuts in food rations and in the financing of refugees through, inter alia, The United Nations Food Programme. And it has to be said that the reduction from 145 dollars for a family for one month to 125 dollars has helped to give the extra boost to further refugees, which we, among other things, are. has been able to see here in autumn 2015. After all, it concerns food, medicine, and basic necessities of life, which have had some consequences; because you are on the starvation line, of course, you flee farther away than your immediate area. Denmark has cut the part of development aid that does not go directly to refugees very sharply, not so much directly to the neighbourhoods, I recognise, but to UNICEF, to UN Women, to UNDP, we have cut between 40 and 50 per cent. of our means. It is also money that is spent in the neighbourhoods, money that is spent for children, for women, for immediate relief. So this brings me to the question: does the Prime Minister agree that there is a link between financial support and the emergency aid in the neighbourhood and the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark and Europe? And what will the Prime Minister do to increase the overall relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141907	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119141909	But, of course, I agree that there is also a connection there. In other words, I have tried, in many of the answers I have given here today, to suggest that there are certainly many connections and therefore many complex connections. And this is a part of it; so it says itself. If you are sitting in a place where the UN has to turn down the rations, where there is no prospect that your children will be able to get sound schooling, where the sanitation is not in order or whatever it may be, then of course it creates a further incentive to move. So it's one dimension, but it's only one with many others. I mean, how do we take care of borders? What are the conditions of residence offering different countries? What political pressure do we put in order to resolve the conflict? Is there a glimpse of hope so that one believes that the conflict can be resolved, or is everyone thinking that it has a very, very long prospect? It's very, very complex. That's why I'm not in a position to just pull the one. I mean, if it were just a question of now pulling up a checkbook and increasing the area effort and then there would be no asylum seekers, that would be easy. But it's not that simple. We're making a big contribution. We were among the first to move in late summer towards promoting a European agenda where Europe was more ambitious, with an effort of 100 million. euro. We are pushing elsewhere, also to get other countries to do what we do. I agree that something more needs to be done there, but it is on the basis that the efforts we are making on the Danish side I can vouch for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142046	Now I had no desire to simplify the solution to the problems of refugees to be only about a near-range strategy. I have just looked at the fact that it is also part of the solution to the pressure on our borders. And I also hear the Prime Minister recognise the importance of development aid for the flow of refugees; I am pleased about that. Having said that, the Prime Minister should not have followed the majority of the Folketing when we decided, shortly before Christmas, to say that part of the unused development aid should be paid out in 2015, for example. The World Food Programme, that is to say for food in the vicinity, so that we could see that there were fewer hungry people? This would have contributed to reducing the number of refugees into Europe. And that was 1.4 billion. kr., which could not be used this year or the years to come because of the budget law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142139	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142141	Well, you can't spend the money twice. During 2015, we dimensioned things the way we did, among other things. I should also like to say that we are in agreement with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's own party, for example in order to honour the political agreements we concluded. So we have dimensioned as we have done and prioritised, as we have done, in 2015 and do not have the privilege of being able to spend the money twice. We did not have that last year, and we have not done so in the future either. That may be the seriousness of this debate, too, when you just say: easy pressure on the municipalities, send some more money. Lighten the pressure on borders by increasing the proximity effort and sending some more money. I mean, the money can only be used once... sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142227	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142230	I think it sounds a little hollow when the Prime Minister is out to say over and over again that we need to spend more effort in the neighbourhoods, so that we need to increase the contribution to the neighbourhoods, and so now we are saying that we cannot just keep sending more money to the neighbourhoods. The point is, if we're gonna solve this challenge, we're gonna have to play a lot of keys. One thing we can do is to solve the challenges in the neighbourhood. We cannot do this alone in Denmark. We need to do this together with the rest of the European Union, and we need to do this together with the United Nations. But Denmark has a role to play when we half our contribution to UNICEF, the United Nations of the children; when we half our contribution to UN Women, the United Nations of women, that is to say those who give birth in the camps, they see that they cannot be taken care of in the same way; or when for that matter we cut our contribution to UNDP, which is precisely helping to provide clean drinking water. There I am simply asking the simple question: now that a majority in the Danish Parliament has decided, that is to say, has said very clearly to the government that we want the amount that corresponds from 0.7%. to 0.8%.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142338	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142341	Well, I fully recognise that you have to play on many keys, and I think we do too, but you can play on many keys without having to be SF's tune. After all, none of us, like any of us, has a patent on how concrete tones are to be fought and how high they are to be fought. We are trying to deal with the situation Denmark is in from three dimensions. One is about keeping the number under control. The second is about the immediate way we handle the task in the first phase, i.e. how expensive and costly it is. The third is about making people self-help, self-supporting. These are the three dimensions we operate with. The first, which is about keeping the number under control, is, of course, the fact that Denmark is at the forefront in the area effort, and we are. We are among the countries that do most about Syria. We were last year, and we will be this year too. Having said that, we must also know that things are more complicated than that, because I believe that one third of the refugees who are coming today come from Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142451	Time's up. Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142500	Thank you. I would like to follow up on a subject that I have mentioned in the past, as many others have been today, namely the refugee and migrant crisis. I don't think any of us think this is easy, and I don't want to stand here and say that we can handle this with a snap. When it interests us all so much, it is probably because we all really want to safeguard our country and the cohesion that is in it. Pressure on Denmark continues. The government has recently chosen to introduce temporary border controls. We agree with that. I have seen it at Øresundstogene at the station at Copenhagen Airport, and yesterday I was in Kruså to look at the conditions, and I have to say that it is going quietly. I think it is a very important signal to send out in the current situation that we have that control. But I have also said in the past that it is and remains symptom treatment of the whole major problem. Immigration will continue and the weakest refugees will continue to be abandoned. That is why we have been out to propose modernising the UN Convention on Refugees, so that we cannot seek asylum in Denmark or any other country, but are seeking asylum directly from a refugee camp, and then countries can assess how much each of them can handle in relation to taking up the task. I have raised it before, and I sense that the Prime Minister has received it a little lukewarmly in the past, but not dismissive. I have read this weekend in the paper that the Socialists have in a very different way turned up the heat of this proposal, and just as quietly there are a lot of mandates that can see an opportunity here. Because is not the truth, Prime Minister, that as long as the UN Convention on Refugees remains in force, we in Denmark have no opportunity to determine for ourselves the number of refugees who come here to seek asylum? We can do something about the terms, but basically we have to stand by and look at it. We have no way of doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142710	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142712	I think it is an exciting debate that was also raised by the Socialists this weekend. And that is, in fact, an echo of some proposals that have historically been put forward, and I think you can also find a number of Leftmen who have thought similar thoughts. I just think it has to be said quite openly that if the instrument to solve our short-term challenges is to change UN conventions, we will probably not solve this issue in the short-term. It is difficult to achieve cohesion in Europe, and if we suddenly invent a solution based on the fact that we need not only cohesion in Europe but also consensus in the UN system, then it is not just around the corner. Even though it is an exciting idea, it could not be put through unless some things are basically going to work better in Europe, and it stands and falls by whether or not we can protect the external border. For such a system, which we are talking about, in other words where we cannot enter Europe at all, but sit in a camp in a country with which, moreover, an agreement has to be reached, and which is in agreement with it, so that a quota system can then be applied for, we need to be able to take care of the border. And it doesn't make sense. That's why I think I'm gonna insist a little more low-practical that this is the corner we're gonna start in. We need to start to sharpen the tone towards a country like Greece that looks too passively at. We need to support the Commission in the fact that the proposal that the EU should be able to create a border guard agency is being unfolded and that a country such as Greece should either take care of their own borders or, if they cannot, accept such a support wheel from the EU system. If we do not succeed in this, we will not get things under control at all in the short run, and then we will not create anything similar to the possibility of getting the idea mentioned by the questioner to fly. And I think the questioner must also acknowledge that then the idea is not something that lies in being implemented just around the corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142920	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119142922	I would not dream of saying that the only solution here in the short term is to change UN agreements, to change conventions, I fully agree with that, but I feel that if we are to do something in the long term, we sometimes have to do something about it, because otherwise the track will just go further. We in the Conservative People's Party believe that the need to act is actually very great. We fear a great deal for Denmark's cohesion. In other words, integration has not exactly been a 30-40-year-old success story, and if we do not start to take such a firm approach somewhere, there will be more asylum seekers. Some are granted asylum and there are family reunifications, and that challenges a country like Denmark. It's challenging us a lot. Then I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he can say anything about some concrete initiatives that the government is working on to ensure that we can influence the number of refugees and migrants much more ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143014	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143016	That's one of them. The whole package we have under discussion in the Folketing, which tightens a number of conditions on asylum, family reunification and other matters. It is, of course, our efforts in Europe, as I indicated earlier, to get Europe to take responsibility. For at the moment it is the case that a handful of countries in the north-east corner of Europe have the whole task, and there we have to insist that some others take on board resources and other things that need to be done so that we can take care of our external borders. That's what we do. When I am a little lukewarm, although I can see the perspective of these proposals, it is because I think we should all be very careful that we do not create an image in the public that there is some sort of solution, and then that problem has gone away. Because if there is such a solution that can make the problem go away, we should of course resort to it if we all agree, moreover, that we should take care of Denmark. So I think we should be careful that we do not stick ourselves or the Danes in the eye. This isn't easy. We can do a lot ourselves, and I do not exclude that we can do more, to tighten conditions and other things to keep the number under control. We can try to cheapen the task and make it more efficient by providing the municipalities with new tools, and we can ensure that the people who come will be responsible for caring for themselves by giving them access to the Danish labour market. That's what we can do. And then we must work internationally, and we must do so as effectively as possible. But to create a picture that we're just wooing away the problem, I think we should be careful about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143208	Thank you. We need to respect the last questioner, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, have some peace in the hall. Here you go, the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143216	Thank you. I agree that we should not blind people, because it is important that people understand that this is serious. I think everyone recognizes that. But we can say at the same time: yes, we are now trying to bring together a group of countries that want to start work on the conventions. A group of countries in the European Union could be brought together to push some countries even more to secure the EU's external border. I mean, you could take a little something. After all, the government could put turbos on the job of making diplomatic guarantees so that it will be easier to repatriate people on tolerated stays. I think there would be solid support for that in Danish society. Are there any of the initiatives in which the Prime Minister could see that we could go ahead with that here and now, apart from all the other good that we are doing together?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143303	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143306	We're kind of on it. After all, the whole dimension of having people who are not granted asylum withdrawn is one that we in Denmark take seriously and where the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also taken initiatives and conducted dialogue with a number of his colleagues. It's one thing that's going on, because it's part of the key to it. It is not so much Denmark, although I do not write off that we could do more than we already do, but it is quite a number of other countries in Europe that have had what to say about a little rusty procedures for how to deal with this. That's part of the picture. If a picture is created that one can come to Europe in a larger country not so far from here and be there for a relatively long time, even if one has no need for asylum without risking being sent out again, then that is a compelling thing. So the Foreign Minister is engaged in dialogue with like-minded countries on this whole dimension. That is also all that is at stake in relation to our development aid, which is also a debate in which Denmark is the leader in the European circle and can be. Because we are providing so much development aid, it is also legitimate to have the view that development aid should be provided, so we also have to provide something the other way, among other things. take its citizens home if they are illegally staying in Europe. So we are also working on that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143421	Thank you. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143447	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143509	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is the case. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143529	Thank you very much. When I chose to speak at second reading, it was because the answers to my questions to the laws came very late. I did so in particular because I have some fundamental and serious criticisms of the legislative process which are important to draw attention to. The fundamental and serious thing is that we in the Danish Parliament should, of course, respect the decision of the Greenland Parliament on the laws which are to apply to Greenland. In this case, it was a unanimous Parliament which had indicated that it wanted child-sacrifice advice and conflict mediation to be offered with the comment as far as possible. The law, as it stands, merely provides that the courts and the courts can offer child-sacrificing advice. It is challenging as the circuit boards, which have the task, are referred to the Greenlandic social services, which are overburdened. This means that child counseling will be difficult to offer to the extent that a broad majority of Inatsisartut would otherwise like. New laws call for means to improve the legal status of families with children in Greenland. It costs to implement the legislation, and it is important that we ensure that there are the necessary competences in the circuit courts and we help to develop these competences. That is why we should always bear in mind, when we are doing legislative work, that the necessary funds are also being allocated, and that was one of my criticisms. The principle is also that we should work together in the Greenland Parliament, but also here in the Danish Parliament to ensure that we do not make future Greenlandic laws for light versions of Danish laws. There are still many laws that need to be drawn up together, and in order for us in Greenland to have laws with the same weight as the Danish ones, which is the political objective, one must be more careful to use the concept of special Greenlandic conditions in the further legislative work. I recognise that there are needs in some places, but let us put the bar a little higher, so that the laws that must help to bear and develop Greenlandic society not only become realistic but also ambitious rather than the opposite. It is not on the part of the Folketing that we should help to slow down the development that should take place in Greenlandic society, on the contrary. Immediately after the second reading of these laws, I was in a short dialogue with the Minister for Social Affairs. I sensed that one is open to finding a solution in relation to the laws we are discussing today, including, in particular, regarding the implementation of the family justice package. I therefore look forward to an early meeting where we can discuss these things with the Minister, but where we can also provide constructive input on how to find a solution and implement it in Greenland. The family law package consists of three parts and, as I said at second reading, it is an important law for a great many people in Greenlandic society. It is also a law that has been in the pipeline for a long time, which is why I welcome the fact that we can vote through it today and I am voting in favour of the comments I have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143847	There are a few brief comments, and the first is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143855	Thank you very much for your speech. I just wanted to make sure that I understand it quite correctly, i.e. that Aaja Chemnitz votes in favour of the bill, so that it was not a protest against its being voted through, but rather a few comments on the process. Is it true that Aaja Chemnitz is not opposed to us voting through the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143914	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143916	Thank you for the question. That's right. I shall vote in favour of the comments I have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143923	There is a further brief comment. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119143933	Thank you and thank you for your comments. I fully agree that there is a great deal to gain from the fact that we are now adopting this legislation, but also from the fact that a number of initiatives are now lacking before the law can be implemented. One thing is to say that things are on paper here, but another thing is to put it into practice. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she will try to elaborate on what resources are needed to ensure that the law is fully applicable in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144003	Thank you for the question. The first is, of course, that we will have the opportunity to have conflict mediation in Greenland, because it is new because we do not have it at this time. I would like not only to draw on the scarce resources that exist in the municipalities, which are a Greenlandic responsibility, but also to take responsibility on the Danish side and to help ensure that conflict mediation became a real opportunity everywhere in Greenland. As I said at the second reading, it could be in the form of the circuit courts that an institution attached to the circuit courts had been established. That is where I see the openness of the Minister for Social Affairs when it comes to finding a solution. Something else that I think should be taken into account and should generally be taken into account in relation to securing these laws is what is called a legal certainty law, i.e. how we can guarantee the duration of the proceedings so that it does not take too long to deal with the law. This is something I would like to work actively on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144056	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144058	Thank you. Then I just want to say that we are in complete agreement with the IA in their criticism and in their desire to achieve these things. And we are also voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144107	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Apparently no more people want to speak, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144119	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and the vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and IA), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144149	No amendments have been tabled. I understand that Mrs Pernille Skipper wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144214	I'll be brief. Our proposal is, of course, about abolishing one of the many cases where some kind of unfair compensation can be obtained as a politician. This is about leave for municipal and regional council members. At first reading, it was said that this could not be decided because there was a report from the remuneration commission on the way to take a position on the matter. Firstly, it has now arrived and, secondly, it has not taken a position on this issue at all because it has only dealt with the salaries of full-time politicians. That is why I hope that the parties who rejected the proposal at first reading with reference to the remuneration commission will now vote yes, so that we can ensure that we can, of course, be given leave, but under reasonable and proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then there are some comments from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144328	That is just a brief comment on the authors of the motion. The reason why we are recommending that this motion for a resolution be rejected is not, in fact, the substance of it, because we also agreed at first reading that there are probably some inappropriate things in relation to the fact that, as a part-time politician, we are forced to receive remuneration. There we have indicated that we are in the process of clarifying how these rules are being dealt with. And as the resolution stands, it is an equal position with that of parliamentary politicians. That's where we don't think you can just put direct resemblances. So, with the comments and what is also reflected in the committee's contribution to the report, I would like to say that the proposal will probably now fall this way, but that everything else will be something that we will take up again when we have the knowledge base that has been set in motion in order to get under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144436	Thank you, Minister. It seems that no one else wishes to speak in this debate and, as this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144445	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour 49 (DF, EL, LA, ALT and SF) voted against 58 (S, V, RV and KF), abstained 1 (IA). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144518	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144552	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144626	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144653	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (Alternative), joined by a minority (Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF). A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The amendment has been rejected. The vote will therefore be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 by a minority (Alternative), joined by a minority (Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF). The vote has started. The vote is closed. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (IA). The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144810	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144847	The debate is open. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119144914	Thank you for that, President. What we are discussing now is the reinstatement or adjustment of the so-called housing job scheme, namely the introduction of the green housing job scheme. And you could start by asking yourself: what should you actually expect from a green housing job scheme? Yes, I think it would be reasonable to expect it to be green and to create jobs. This is not really the case with the system we are discussing today. The Ministry expects us to get 300 jobs out of a scheme that costs 400 million. kr. That is considerably more than 1 million. kr. per job; it is a very expensive scheme. And, of course, you can say that it has now also turned green in addition. And that is clearly an improvement compared to the fact that it had not been green. That is, as it were, a step in the right direction, but it is a very small step. In fact, the government is not even able to tell how small a step or how big a step it is, because you don't think you can count on the green effect that is of it. So you have a system that costs 1.3 million. kr. for every job it creates and has an environmental impact that you cannot really decide. I think this is a rather strange priority, as we Social Democrats think it is a rather strange priority, not least for a week when the Minister of Finance has been saying to the municipalities that they are wailing because there is no money in the box, because it is difficult to get welfare to hang together in the municipalities. There is simply not the right way to give priority to spending money on a scheme that is neither very green nor creates jobs. We in the Socialist Group have previously helped to extend and extend the housing job scheme, and we thought it was a good idea to do so in the years when we should pull Denmark out of the crisis. Fortunately, our government at that time managed to get the ship back on track, and now we are slowly and safely, albeit at a different pace around the country, on our way out of the crisis. Employment is increasing and the economy is progressing. And we have always seen the housing job scheme as a tool that belongs to a time of crisis. We do not think it should be the case that there is more or less permanent state aid for craft work in Denmark, so that people who earn well can get support from the other taxpayers who may not even be able to afford to hire a craftsman themselves. That's one part of the story. But it is also a matter of history that the tax minister's party and our current prime minister travelled around in the election campaign with quite different figures from those we are now facing. At that time, a housing job scheme would provide 5,000 jobs; that was certain and certain. As we have already seen since, it was gradually turned down and has now landed on the 300, which I believe is the story of the official team now. So the reality out there is that we have a system that costs 1.3 million. kr. per Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. In fact, I believe that the truth about this housing job scheme is that the only job it actually provides is the Prime Minister's. We Social Democrats have said that we think we should give different priority to nursing, our elderly, more educators, our assistants in the children's day care institutions. But, of course, it is perfectly legitimate that there is now a majority of the Danish People's Party, the government, the Conservatives, the SF and the Alternative who have chosen to spend the money on this tax relief, which bats very little. I think that the system has been popular, and I also think that when you cut all this by saying that there is no longer a crisis that needs to be overcome in the same way, gone and that is no longer an argument, and when you find it very difficult to prove that you really have a lot of work converted from black to white, and when you find it hard to argue for it at all, it is probably mostly about that it has been a popular scheme. And that is where we believe that time has run out and that instead of giving priority to some of the things that we need most to invest in, namely our welfare, which is currently under severe pressure in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145332	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145340	Here we are discussing a bill on a green housing job scheme, and just to sketch out the historical course, it is the case that shortly after the election an agreement was made between the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Alternative and the Conservative People's Party, which means that one continued with the well-known model in 2015, whereas one then agreed that unlike it was supposed to be a more green model here in 2016 and 2017. This is the last part on which we are discussing legislation here today. I would actually like to start by just praising the other parties behind the agreement for a good outcome. I think it has been exciting politically to find that you can actually work across the middle to find out some solutions that everyone can see themselves in. So, first of all, I would like to thank the other parties that have been involved in the agreement. As I said, this is about the greener part of the scheme. It has to be said clearly that in the past the housing job scheme has been mostly meant as a business cycle tool, whereas now it has to support a more green development, where you want to motivate homeowners to invest in energy-efficient measures in their private homes. One thing that has also come along and that one cannot therefore qualify as green, but which I certainly think is very positive, is that people can now get deductions for the installation of fast broadband, which should help them get better coverage. It is a system that is technology-neutral and respects market forces and that helps to support citizens so that they have a greater chance of getting a fast broadband connection. I think there is a need to do something about this here in Christiansborg, given that there are some places where the market is failing, and in that case there should be a helping hand for those who are hit by it and who will then have a faster connection. One cannot say that it is a green approach, but there is, after all, a touch of it, in that it may be able to motivate people to a greater extent to work from home and not to start the car, or because they may be able to act without having to drive. This is not something that I would describe as a green approach, but, after all, as a positive approach. The new system also differs from the old one in a different way. In the past, it was possible to obtain a deduction of DKK 15,000, which could be used either on services or on the artisan part, whereas the new scheme is divided up in such a way that the services of the craftsman can be deducted from DKK 12,000. from, and on the services DKK 6,000. The last part of the services we in the Danish People's Party are happy to participate. This is among other things. the part that gives a helping hand to children's families with childcare or to people who have to do some gardening, or to the pensioner who needs some extra cleaning. It is also mainly there the effect in relation to undeclared work lies. So at least we think it's a good thing that you still have that part with you after all. Finally, I should also like to mention one thing which is actually part of the agreement but which is not part of the legislative proposal. This is the part of the agreement where we actually get a little funding to get more research done in the experience of the Swedish scheme. I am thinking in particular of the part of the Swedish scheme where you have a higher deduction on the service part, i.e. cleaning, gardening, etc. Here, Sweden has good experience of reducing the amount of undeclared work. There we look forward very much to a study now being carried out and that we get some more qualitative data that we here in the Danish Parliament can use in the further work to find out if you might have to make a new model when this model expires, in order to get a good tool to combat undeclared work. However, as I said in the first place, this is a proposal and an agreement that the Danish People's Party was in the circle around, so we can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145738	There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145742	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I am glad that the Danish People's Party has experienced the joy of a broad cooperation in the Danish Parliament, but it is a little expensive if we are to pay 400 million. kr. for the Danish People's Party to experience that joy. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he thinks that the 400 million. kr. Here could not be better used for DF not to cut the subsidies for pensioners' rent as hard as we have seen with this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145811	Now I'm pretty sure the deal isn't made for you to experience the good cooperation. Fortunately, this is experienced in many areas in the Danish Parliament, so it is perhaps a little simplistic to say that this is why you spend 400 million. kr. This has to be seen in the light that we really would have liked to have continued with the old system, and in order to do so, in 2015 it required a compromise with, among others. SF and the alternative, where their part of the payment was that it would then be a green model forward-looking. That is what we are doing here, and I think that is quite positive. Because you also have to recognise that the housing job scheme is very good in a time of crisis. The Social Democrats themselves have also helped to keep their hands on employment with the housing job scheme. However, when you are heading out of the crisis, it is perhaps also a good initiative that you saddle up and choose to prioritise other things, and here it is more the green aspect that you prioritise in it. You see, among other things. whether it is worth getting some heat pumps or other things into the house that make them more energy-efficient. I think that is really positive. And when it is spiced with the fact that there are also broadband and deductions for services, I actually think it is an excellent thing to spend 400 million. kr. On.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145912	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145916	Well, I also think it's definitely better that something green is going to happen than that it doesn't go to any green at all. But what I just want to hear about is whether it is an expression of DF's priority that you would rather have broadband than help pensioners stay in their apartment. That is, of course, the priority of a politician. I think it would be interesting to hear DF's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119145938	Fortunately, it is not politically that we cannot give priority to more things. It is not the case that we, for example, are doing so. In the Finance Act now 1 billion has been set aside. kr. extra for the elderly, so that some other money for this cannot also be given priority. So I do not think it is as simple as saying that all the money you have in a society should be spent on the elderly because we prioritise it. No, we also think that a housing job scheme was good, and we also think that it is fine now that something is being done, for example. broadband in order to address the challenge of the importance of infrastructure in rural areas in particular, how much fails. In fact, I think that this is a very good arrangement, and I do not think it came across that at the same time you did well, for example. As we did in the Finance Act, money for the elderly can be given priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150015	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150018	Wide cooperation can be good, of course. We have among other things. had a broad collaboration with Dansk Folkeparti to prevent genetically modified maize from being grown in Denmark. It was therefore a proposal that we got through together with a broad majority, and it was quite free of charge. Here we have something where broad cooperation costs 400 million. kr. I think you can afford to be a little critical when you make a settlement and they are reached quickly. What exactly are the effects of this? I would like to ask the rapporteur if he is aware that until now the scheme has mostly benefited homeowners north of Copenhagen, in other words in an area where people are quite well placed. Is the rapporteur aware that it was mostly building renovations that would still be carried out and that the landowners have received a subsidy that they did not really need?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150114	First of all, I do not fully understand the premise that it would be bad for the other parties to the agreement to be praised for having been successful. I have the impression that around the population and also here in the Danish Parliament, we want to have broader cooperation. So I am a little puzzled by the comment that you pay tribute to your parties to the agreement. I think that is a good course of action and a good course of negotiations. I am well aware that some people in Northern Zealand have also used it, but this is a scheme that has applied throughout the country. I myself come from the centre and west Jutland, and there I know that a lot of people have also used the scheme, and there are a lot of people who are happy with the scheme. This is particularly true of small master craftsmen who are around the country. They have benefited a great deal from this because it has helped to keep their hands on employment. So the part about trying to draw a picture that it's only people in North Zealand who have benefited from this, I think a little bit becomes a wrong picture to draw. It is therefore a system that has applied throughout the country for a number of years now, and I have the impression that one is quite well pleased with having had this opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150217	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150220	I think it is quite okay to praise those with whom agreements are made, and I would like to commend the Danish People's Party for having helped prevent us from having genetically modified maize in Denmark. If we look at the consultation documents on the matter, we can see that it has come to light that the Employment Council of the Workers' Movement has been involved in analysing what has been gained from the scheme up to now and who has benefited from it. They have come to the conclusion that those who have obtained deductions are 10 per cent. the richest in Danish society, which has achieved 30%. of the total amount. I think it should be possible to take a critical view of the fact that this is a biased system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150254	It is rather strange that it comes from the Enhedslisten, which itself is in favour of a clean tax exemption on electric cars, where we have also got the figures that if you were to continue with that tax exemption, it would be the top income council, that was the 10 per cent. The wealthiest would get the whole prize. And it was found that if you were to continue with the scheme, it would cost 1.1 billion. kr., of which 900 million. kr. would go to the 10%. The richest. Apparently there was no problem with that on the Enhedslisten side. I really think it is funny that you are very much after it, when it is other parties that make some agreements, but when you have to be part of an agreement yourself, that may not be the big problem. I just want to make it clear that this is a system that has applied to the whole country. Everyone has had equal opportunities, so if you have lived in Skagen or in Helsingør, you have had the opportunity to get DKK 15,000 in the past. in deductions and now 12,000 DKK. in the craft allowance and 6,000 DKK. in service allowances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150341	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150344	Thank you. I would like to know what the positive effects of the green housing job scheme are, which makes Dansk Folkeparti felt called to participate in this agreement. If you look at the employment effect, you can see that it is quite limited, and there are other ways to ease the tax for citizens that would have a much greater impact on employment. If we look at personal freedom, that is, the fact that you have more money of your own that you can spend as you like, then we can see that there are also places where you could lighten taxation and where it would have a much greater effect on citizens. So what exactly are some positive effects for the citizens that the Danish People's Party has thought are so attractive that you have to be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150429	It is true that you could have chosen to spend the money on lowering the tax elsewhere. But you have to be aware that this is a pool running for two years. I remember that in the past the Liberal Alliance has been out to say that perhaps instead of raising the employment allowance. But it would also be hard to deal with saying to people that it will be like this for two years, and then it will fall again. After all, there is a difference between something that is permanently funded and something that is pool-financed. This is something that runs for two years, and then it goes away again. It is true that you could find other things that would have a greater effect. But it is also difficult to measure the effect of e.g. broadband, which is something that ensures that we have a better infrastructure and which may make people more resident in rural areas because they can better work from home. The municipalities can better create welfare technology, and home help may be able to create better solutions so that you can do some re-top training from home digitally. So there are some beneficial things in relation to infrastructure that cannot necessarily be measured by employment or other things, but which are nevertheless beneficial to our society. And one of the things we have prioritised in this scheme is getting better digital opportunities by getting a better infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150530	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150533	Thank you. I'm gonna drop out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150538	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150544	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will not recognise that when you spend 400 million. kr., the money has also come from somewhere in the Finance Act. The rapporteur did not want to recognise that they have been taken away from the housing insurance of the elderly, but then they have been taken away from the cuts that have been made in education, or they have been taken away from the families of cash workers who are now losing 230 million. kr., or have they been taken from foreign aid, or have they been taken from the 500 million. kr., which the municipalities lost in the municipality agreement to welfare out in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150609	I understand the interest in that question, but it is quite impossible to put a finger directly on it and to say that that is where funding is being found. You can argue that this should be done more in the Folketing, because it is more comparable. But when you find something in a Finance Act, the money comes up with a lot of different things via taxes and taxes. We spend the money on a lot of different things. There are also some areas where efficiency is made more effective. That is why it is not so clear that it is precisely that or the place where you find the money. But I can at least state that it is not in the area of the elderly that a previous questioner tried to draw a picture of, because there will be exactly one billion. kr. More.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150641	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150643	I must then conclude that it must be from education and from the rest of the welfare to the children in the municipalities that the money has been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150651	Like I said, you can't put it up that simple. You can't just point to one thing in a corner of the Finance Act and say that's exactly where you find the funding. So it's not that simple when you make finance agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150703	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150711	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge that I have very good cooperation with the rapporteur in the Committee on Taxation. That is a good thing, that is the whole idea of democracy, but that cooperation must also be translated into something. And now we've tested the tax minister on this proposal in several consultations and questions etc., and I wouldn't say the tax minister's hard-pressed admits that this scheme doesn't provide very many jobs and that you spend over 1 billion. kr. This system, which one now wants to renew, but that one does so because it is an election promise. That helps DF so the government fulfills that election promise. The votes of DF are, of course, decisive in determining whether this can be achieved. When DF chooses to do so, help with a scheme that the tax minister recognises does not provide very many jobs, a scheme that makes the most sense in a recession, it is money that you spend, which you could actually have spent on something else. It could, for example, be done. We must avoid the negative consequences of the re-priority contribution, i.e. money away from municipal welfare, rent reductions, etc. And then I have to ask the rapporteur: well, what is it that the DF here wants to give that help to a scheme that does not in fact create much in a high-level junktor?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150822	First of all, I think we are actually aware of this: the new system does not cost 1 billion. kr. The old system was somewhat more expensive than the scheme on the table, which costs 400 million. kr. Of course, it can be a lot of money, and that is something you can argue for. But the reason why we are involved in this is that I also think it is sensible that we should actually do something about it. Because it is true that it is a very good tool for holding hands in employment at a time of crisis, that is to say when people need to be kept employed, typically in the craft industry, at least with the housing job scheme that was there. Now, however, you are receding to take more energetic steps in relation to people's houses. But a large part of the money that is being spent is spent by the 400 million. kr. kr. It is perhaps more forward-looking that we would like to have a good infrastructure that can enable people to work from home and perhaps get some companies to settle in an area because there is better coverage. You can trade via the Internet, you can use welfare technology, you can use telemedicine. There are many other things that are difficult to make up for in terms of employment effects, but which are really beneficial to our society. And especially in our rural areas, where there is today a poor coverage, this can help to support a better infrastructure for the future. This is one of the important things that we think is in the new system, which may not, as in the past, hold hands on employment in times of crisis, although it is of course also an important part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150936	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119150939	I fully agree that good broadband connections are important. It creates a lot of other positive things. But it is now a question of spending 400 million. kr. extra. That's 400 million. kr., you could have spent on something else. Can the rapporteur recognise that it is perhaps not quite unreasonable to think that some money is being taken from the municipalities, which could have been used to reduce rents, and then 400 million are being spent on it. kr. to renew the housing job scheme so that there are some who can get a deduction at a time when employment is on the way up; and that there is surely no such quite fair argument to say that there is a particular need for this scheme in a boom?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151023	In fact, I think that's quite a small part of it. Of course, we can get an exposition in the committee work which goes directly to the craftsman's part. For the service part also takes up a lot, i.e. what you can use for gardening and cleaning. There is a lot going on in broadband, and there are a lot of things that can be helped in relation to green investment. So it is not the same as with the old scheme, where the whole amount could in principle be used to change roofs and windows etc. Now, like another scheme, the main objective of which is no longer necessarily to hold hands under employment, because there is no more the same need as there was in the past. Now it is some more long-term things you look at, among other things. broadband, and that in the longer term people get some more energy-efficient houses. And that is a slightly different agenda from the one that was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151105	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151119	The proposal for the green housing job scheme is what we are discussing today, and in many ways it is a very positive proposal. This is positive because it has succeeded in creating broad support for the scheme, which the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives are behind. The housing job scheme was introduced by the VK government in 2011 and has had a tumultuous history. The former government would abolish it, the Left got it extended and introduced it in summer 2015 with effect for the whole year. Now we are discussing this proposal for a green housing job scheme. Now the housing job scheme is turning green for the benefit of the environment, climate, growth and employment. In addition, the amount increases so that a total of DKK 18,000 can be deducted. for services such as: cleaning, window cleaning and childcare, and 12,000 DKK. for green renovation and broadband. The broad support gives hope for the future of the housing job scheme, and I welcome that. Then there is the substance of the system itself. It is no news that we in the Left are hot supporters of the housing job scheme for a number of reasons. The possibility of deducting wage costs from certain benefits in tax provides incentives to call craftsmen rather than to take care of things themselves. It frees up valuable time for busy families. Children's families and the elderly are given a better opportunity to get a little help in daily cleaning, window cleaning and childcare, and this can help to make everyday life a little better. When called upon, the craftsman creates employment and apprenticeships in a number of occupations. In addition, the system reduces undeclared work, and I think that can only be welcomed. We would, of course, have liked the positive list of what could be deducted to be longer, and if some in the conciliation circle want the list to be extended, we would therefore be happy to take it up. I note that the hearings are generally positive, and on behalf of the Left I must say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151333	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151338	Thank you. The concern to create jobs is a good idea. After all, no one can disagree that it is positive if we can create some jobs. But now we have this 400 million. kr., and one chooses, so to speak, that we send them as a tax credit, which we know is being used in a very socially biased way. We know that there is a social bias in who uses them. So what we really do now is we take 400 million. kr., and we use them to send some artisans, some window cleaners and others to many of them up north of Copenhagen to solve some tasks in some private homes. Wouldn't it be more reasonable if we took the same 400 million? kr. and instead employed the same craftsmen or the same cleaning staff to solve some tasks that benefited all of us, to solve some tasks, for example. in our kindergartens, with renovation, cleaning, so that we are not in a situation, as we are doing with this proposal, that it is the SOSUs or warehouse workers out in the surrounding municipalities of Copenhagen who have to pay for the lawyer north of Copenhagen to have his windows cleaned? Would it not be more reasonable for us to say that when we create jobs, we do so in a way that benefits everyone when we are all involved in paying it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151500	But now employment is not the only reason why we are doing this. We are also doing this in order to help families, the elderly and many others to get better help in everyday life and not to get it done black. We are also doing this to ensure a better green transition in Denmark. So there's a lot of reasons to do this. If we looked only at what would give the most growth, then we all know that it would be top tax concessions, and I still doubt that Enhedslisten is in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151527	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151530	In other words, what would create more jobs was to employ some people in the public sector, where it really goes downhill and where some 30.000 jobs have been lost since the crisis started. In other words, top tax relief is a detour which may not create jobs. In the first place, I think that makes some people work more. That's what you're saying. But it doesn't create more jobs. On the contrary, it's gonna be harder for those outside to come in, so it's a great story. But in relation to the green transition, you could ask yourself whether this money was not better invested in the community than being given to the relatively narrow group that is using this deduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151608	When you look at the combination of different things we want to do, give a little more freedom to families so that they can make everyday life better together, make sure that the other citizens can also get some help, maybe some older people can get cleaning and when we also see that we also want to contribute to the green transition and secure employment around Denmark, then I think this housing job scheme is the best option we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151634	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151638	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Does the rapporteur agree with the Minister for Taxation that if they had done so in a different way, more jobs could have been created for the same money?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151652	I have no reason to doubt what the Minister of Taxation is telling us. Absolutely not. But now it is not just employment that we have looked at. We have looked at a broad palette of different things, and some of what I personally attach enormous importance to is helping families with children and other Danes better to be able to afford some help in everyday life. Because it can be difficult to afford help in everyday life, and it can be difficult to make everyday life stick together. Most people who have been a family or a family with children know about this very busy everyday life. I think it is positive that you can get help there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151721	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151723	If one then understands that it was not to create jobs because there could have been more people in a different way but to help the families of children, could one not argue that one might just as well have given the families of children a more direct tax relief so that they could actually do those things? Where is the liberal view that the conciliation parties here have made a list of what they want to help families with, but that they are not allowed to choose for themselves what they want help with? Then they could have used their tax relief in a different way, if that was what they wanted at last.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151756	Now there is a broad palette for reasons that we have chosen this solution. But I would say that in the service sector you also have a broad opportunity to see what you would like help with: Is it for child care? Is that for cleaning? Is that for window cleaning? Within the service industry itself there is a wide range of options you can choose. So there I think we have actually given a great deal of freedom to choose for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151815	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151818	After all, the rapporteur himself said that if we were to make growth and if we were really to get the wheels going, there were many other good things we could do, including lowering the top tax. It was kind of a confession case. You know, making good policy is the risk of prioritising. Would the rapporteur not agree, with his hand in hand, that if the Left could have decided itself, the money would not have been squandered on this proposal, but would have made real tax cuts for all incomes that would really make a difference to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151852	The left went to elections on a housing job scheme, albeit a broader housing job scheme than we have been given here. But we do have a democracy, and that is why we need to find a majority. We have been pleased to find a broad majority for this arrangement. I would like to acknowledge and thank you for finding a way across parties where we can agree on some things. I think that is a good thing for democracy. We went to an election on a housing job scheme, so of course we would like to have a housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151915	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151918	Yes, it is probably such a mantra for the Left: we went to the polls to cut development aid, we went to the polls on making housing job arrangements. But that does not make the various initiatives any better. You still have to stand up for your policy. The hand on the heart: would it not be better from the point of view of Left logic, from the point of view of liberal logic, if we had spent the money we are now going to spend on supporting wealthy families in having various measures taken, which they would nevertheless do according to the government's own calculations, and which have no effect whatsoever either on jobs or on the green area, to ease the tax on work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119151954	I simply do not understand the logic of running away from your promises. After all, when you have promised something, you have to keep it, and we are actually working for it. Yeah, we mean it, too. I would also like to explain it, but I have done so to the other questioners. When the rapporteur asked me whether what I am actually in favour of is a housing job scheme: yes, the Left went to elections on a housing job scheme. That's because we mean it. It's not just because we say so. It is because we believe it gives a freedom to the families of children, it gives a freedom to the Danes in general, it gives less undeclared work and it provides more employment. We think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152027	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152040	The scheme we are now talking about is first and foremost the old housing job scheme in a new green package, because basically it is the result that it is a tax rebate for society's wealthiest. It still includes the possibility of tax rebates for the cost of window cleaning, gardening and cleaning, a tax rebate where we have heard several times that it is the wealthiest in Denmark that makes use of that option and which also has the best opportunity to do so. This is also clear from the evaluation of the old system. In addition, it can be said that it is reinforced by recognising that this scheme will involve more services than real investment in housing. It is estimated that it will rise from 10%. 23 per cent. On top of that, there is the fact that leisure accommodation is also included. It is even holiday homes abroad, and it can be said that after all it is not the poorest people in this country who can afford it, and it will be some expenditure that does not create employment. It has been emphasized several times that it is doing so to avoid undeclared work, but the evaluation of the old system showed that it was relatively ineffective in relation to it, because when you asked people how much black work they would otherwise have had, it is a relatively small part of them, 5%, which had been done black. So these are first and foremost tasks that would have been carried out anyway, which will be covered by this scheme. Then we've been arguing a little from up here that the money comes from somewhere. When you divide 400 million. kr. out, they're gonna have to come from somewhere. Is it from development aid? Are these the cuts in education? Is it from those families on cash benefits who lose 230 million? kr.? Or is it from municipal welfare, which has been cut by 500 million. kr. in connection with the municipal agreement? We still need answers as to whether that is fair. Then there is something that I think should be taken into account. The tenants are mentioned in this arrangement. They are covered by the agreement, but I would say that a side effect of this green package is, in fact, to a large extent that the tenants are actually excluded, because many of the things that are covered by the scheme are something that is about external maintenance. It's about having a garden and having its own sewer and having its own drain pipes. So you do not have it when you live for rent, where it is the owner of the dwelling who is responsible for the external maintenance. I also think it is clear that there is a dubious effect on employment. If you have to believe the slightly optimistic effects, it gives around a workplace per job. Millions. If you're going to pick up this money in the municipalities, where you're going to have to fire pedagogues and home helpers, two or three jobs disappear per year. It is therefore possible to say that this system could just as well lead to the loss of 500 to 1 000 jobs in Denmark. Then we come to the green wrapping. Here we believe from the Enhedslisten that we will have far too little effect on the money. There is still a great deal that will go to painting and broadband. There are many better ways to get green initiatives started for both rental and owner-occupied housing. It is really about securing funding, because the problem with this scheme is that those who already have the opportunity to finance, who have the money, can take advantage of tax rebates, whereas those who live in rural areas in rented homes, or those who have low incomes, find it difficult to finance these green measures and do not get them started and do not get this tax rebate. We think that we should solve this problem and not abandon those people. I also think it could be said that in the municipalities of the country there are, in fact, major problems in moving forward with some of the green measures, precisely because it is really difficult to set up solar cells. If you want to set up solar cells, you should just release the municipalities a little more free and remove the blockages that are to put solar cells up on sports facilities and other huge roofs, rather than encourage them to sit around on every single parcel house. So if you want to ensure a more socially equitable distribution of the benefits of society, the housing job scheme is certainly not the solution. If you want to avoid undeclared work, this scheme really has no effect. If we want to avoid cuts in welfare, we need alternative funding. If you want to benefit the climate and environment and have much more environment for the money, you also have to find a different scheme than the housing job scheme. That's why Enhedslisten is going to vote no to this. There are better ways to ensure green housing improvements and green measures, and we do not believe that welfare should pay tax rebates to those who have the highest income. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152459	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152508	The green housing job scheme is for me to see a very good example of what is wrong with Danish politics. Shifting governments are charging so many and so high taxes that we have now, for a period of time, been at the top as tax country no. 1. The politicians can then decorate themselves by giving the citizens small bits of their own money back through various deductions. The citizens will immediately be happy, but the system is miserable. The green housing job scheme also has the problem of carefully identifying areas where citizens can spend their money. They should not just start improving the home and expect it to give them a deduction, no, now it must also be green. In DF, they want citizens to spend money on the Internet and broadband. In the SF and in the Alternative, they hope that citizens will spend money on environmentally sound windows. I cannot help thinking that there is a gold mine in the retail management of citizens for those parties that want to control the consumption of citizens in this way. You could easily drive it out even further. Why not also regulate VAT so that, when people go to the supermarket, they are pressured to buy the goods that politicians think are the best? Why not regulate citizens' choice of means of transport, so that cars are subject to insanely high charges, while state train operations are allocated billions regardless of the quality of their product? Then I remember that one was at least a policy of several parties, while the other was a fair reality. I do not think it is pretty that a bourgeois-liberal government has so far had the housing job scheme as its main concern. It hasn't gotten any prettier because it's now got a green color. It is for just over a billion kroner of bureaucracy with an extremely modest employment effect. By comparison, the reduction in the registration fee that we agreed together in the financial negotiations increases employment by 700 people for only approx. 300 million kr. annual. At the same time, the tax relief had a value for citizens of approx. 1.2 billion kr. Politics should be about the citizens, not about politicians, and I look forward to the start of tax negotiations before the summer, which are about giving back as much money as possible to citizens without any demand for consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152719	There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152723	I understand that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is very opposed to the fact that subsidies can now also be granted for the actual installation of broadband in rural areas. Today, the Danish telecommunications policy is actually very liberal because it has been said that it has to be purely market-based where roll-out takes place. But does the rapporteur not recognise that there are areas where the market has not created coverage because there is too much between houses? And could this not be a good initiative to ensure this without breaking into market forces? The alternative is that the money is given to the companies, and that is state aid, and I do not think that the Liberal Alliance is a good idea. So couldn't this be a good way to support the development where the market fails, that is, by making this move with a deduction for the installation of fast broadband? If that is not considered possible, what does the Liberal Alliance think the solution is? Is it simply to continue, as has always been done, where the problem in rural areas is not solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152812	In the Liberal Alliance, we certainly also believe that broadband is needed in rural areas. But is this the right solution? I mean, how many citizens do you think, sir? Dennis Flydtkjær really wants to sit and apply for a broadband deduction in this very bureaucratic way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152829	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152832	After all, it is easy to say that you agree that something needs to be done about it where the market is failing if you do not have any measures that you can then propose. As a politician, there is nothing easier than to stand and say no and that everything that the others adopt and thereby actually try to move something is poor. You have to have something to put in place. If this is not the case, what is the Liberal Alliance's solution to the challenge facing rural areas, with the fact that there are some places where the market is not working and where there is poor broadband coverage? In addition to just criticizing, I suppose you have to have some sort of action that you can then make and which might be a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152905	You just can't throw around with the citizens' money. And here we have an initiative that costs a great deal, about 600 million. kr. Before rewinding. How much Internet do you really get for that? I simply do not believe that this is the right solution, and then, as I said just now, it is an extreme management of the consumption patterns of our citizens, which we find quite unattractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152933	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119152948	Thank you. The alternative, of course, supports the draft law, as we are part of the contract circle, and we are very pleased about that. Overall, we are satisfied that there is support for converting the old black craftsman's allowance into a green climate allowance, because this means that in the future the scheme will be targeted climate- and energy-friendly measures that support the green transition. It could, for example, be done. be for energy consultancy, energy renovation, installation of charging station for electric cars, heat pump or solar cells. For us, it is also important that the climate deduction can be applied both to initiatives that help reduce lead, PCB and asbestos, and that it can also be applied to climate- and energy-friendly initiatives that reduce our CO2 So there is a prospect of a benefit for both the climate and the environment. Moreover, with regard to climate gains, buildings and housing today account for 40%. of Denmark's total energy consumption. Therefore, it makes very good sense that a climate allowance of DKr 12 000 is now being introduced, such as: gives all citizens a greater incentive to choose the climate-friendly solutions. And as we all know, it is the case that all homes and buildings, no matter how much money the owner makes, must be built and renovated at some point. Therefore, when we introduce a climate allowance, it is clear that the incentive to choose the climate-friendly solutions is increasing, which is good, because every time the deduction is used, there is a green gain every single one of us, from the alternative side, is satisfied that the agreement to replace the old and popular craftsman's allowance with a new and green climate deduction has succeeded in dragging the government in a greener direction. Nor are we in any doubt that both citizens and the climate are happy, just as we have noted that there is also support for the scheme from among others. Danish Construction, Danish Energy, Danish Machinery Stations and Entrepreneurs and many more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153144	Then there are brief comments. And the first in line is sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153150	It would be interesting to hear exactly what this climate effect is, as the alternative expects from this so-called green housing job scheme, insofar as I have been able to study the answers from the Minister in this area, there is really no climate effect at all, and that is why we have been radically opposed to this scheme. Because if only there was a green effect, if only there was a climate effect, I could understand that you would pour hundreds of millions of kroner to wealthy people around Denmark, but if there isn't even, I just can't understand that a party like the alternative would defend spending so much money on something that actually doesn't benefit the green agenda. Think of what we could do with the money for research into climate solutions or for interventions in rural areas for green conversion or many other good things that will benefit both employment and the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153244	This is an entirely relevant question and we would also like to know exactly how much this scheme provides. We cannot, of course, say that by its very nature, in that the system has not yet been introduced. When the Danish Energy Agency was counting on the old system, they themselves said that it is subject to real, really great uncertainty. And what we have in mind is that there is a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153321	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153324	Can the rapporteur of the alternative not confirm that it has actually been calculated by the minister responsible and that the minister responsible in this area has come to the conclusion that the climate effect is very, very close to zero, it is such a zero come something or other, and I cannot even remember how many decimals you have to go into before you have a CO2 and is it really not certain that you should spend the money on something else if it is the green conversion you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153352	So what we have to bear in mind in the alternative is that this system ensures that the changes made to houses and buildings are lasting energy improvements, and that is what we really want in the alternative. We really want to pull the government and the whole Folketing in a greener direction, and that's why we're in this arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153411	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153415	I would also like to ask whether there could have been more climate, because that is a very good objective. Could you not have had more climate for the money if you had done something else? I think you could. The rapporteur says that now all changes in the house must be climate-friendly. Yes, yes, but isn't it true that in the old scheme you could also do something that gave a better climate, and then you could get a deduction of up to DKK 15,000.? Here you can only get it for up to 12,000 kroner, because the other 6,000 kroner. in the scheme is reserved for something that has nothing to do with climate. And in a reply from the Minister it is actually written that it is expected that a greater part of the money in the scheme will shift to the services. So you might ask: couldn't the alternative have gotten significantly more climate, if that's what it was about, by spending this 400 million? kr. on any climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153508	I am sure that the alternative would have been good if the alternative had had 90 seats. Then we could make a lot of climate-friendly solutions here in the Danish Parliament. So we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153518	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153520	Yeah, I'd really like to do that with the alternative. Would the Prime Minister have had 90 seats if they hadn't been included in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153531	We've really wanted to make sure that this popular scheme was converted into a green housing job scheme and a climate allowance of DKK 12,000. That's what we've agreed to in this arrangement for. We are thus helping to draw the government in a green direction, and we are very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153544	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153547	Yes, now the rapporteur mentioned that this scheme provides an incentive for all citizens and thus an opportunity to achieve some climate improvements. I find that a little difficult to see for all citizens. I would like to know whether the rapporteur could not give an example of how a tenant in the general sector can benefit from this scheme in the part of what concerns achieving a climate benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153617	Neither can a tenant in the general sector. In other words, when we talk about all citizens, it concerns citizens in their own homes. Owners in the general sector can then use the service allowance; that's the part that also lies in this scheme. What we've agreed to in this scheme is to secure the green, so the service allowance itself is not what we've been focusing on in the agreement. But a tenant could use that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153643	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153645	Okay, but then I understand that, as the rapporteur said, what is not right is that not all citizens are given an incentive to work towards achieving climate benefits. So here we have legislation where the million people who live in general housing and the million people who live in private rentals have no chance of doing anything where they use this housing job scheme to promote climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153714	What is important to us in the Alternative is to bring Denmark in a climate-friendly direction. That's what this system is for, and that's why we're in it. I think it is very clear that this is the focus of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153729	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153732	I would like to know whether the rapporteur will not recognise that when the proportion of service providers is estimated to increase from 10%. 23 percent, it won't be green anymore. There is also still a lot of expenditure for craftsmen, and here you can ask whether it is green to have your windows painted outside or to have your sewer fixed. It is certainly not something that in itself helps our CO2 One cannot actually answer whether the scheme has turned greener than it was already, because some of what has been much used is still left in the scheme. It is only a small loft that has been brought along, which may perhaps draw an expensive and inefficient scheme a little in a green direction. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153825	I think we have a complete disagreement there. This scheme is about climate-friendly and energy-enhancing parts for houses. That's the thing about the future, the improvement you're making will be lasting. This will be a lasting improvement in energy in the future. That's why we've joined this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153846	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153848	But is it not true that if you took 400 million? kr. and said that they would be used for energy improvements in those areas of society where CO 2 2 Is that not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153927	I'm having a little trouble understanding where the questioner is going, because the improvements you're going to apologize the questioner can get through this scheme is something that helps to improve the environment and the climate. After all, we have spent a very, very long time discussing it in the conciliation circle, because there we have not quite had the same views. There is the alternative, among other things. along with SF has helped to pull it in the green direction. We could also hear some of the previous rapporteurs confirm this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119153955	I'll remind you that I actually allow you in the sense of man, so it was good enough. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154005	I can understand this argument that the alternative was given something by entering into this agreement. I mean, you couldn't have just spent the money on something else in the green area, because you didn't have a majority for that. I think that's fair enough. What I've just been thinking about is, was it a good trade you made? I mean, was it a good deal you made? And there I am just a little puzzled that when I look at what the cost has been to implement the housing job scheme or to maintain the black housing job scheme, the right antisocial housing job scheme from 2015, it is considerably greater when we look at the amount than what the Alternative got secured over 2 years, where part goes to something green and a good part also • as we heard Mrs Louise Schack Elholm say to have cleaned some windows up in Rudersdal and Lyngy-Tårbæk and elsewhere. Now we've even heard of this grandmother's fin, that is, families who can hire grandmother to take care of the children and then get a genetic advance afterwards. Then you've moved the money around that way and avoided taxes, or rather just pulled a deduction into your pocket. So does the rapporteur think that it is a good agreement that has been made, or has one perhaps paid a little too high a price and got a little too little the other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154122	In the alternative, we think that this is a good agreement. It has been extremely important for us to help pull this government in a green direction. And that is quite right, as the questioner says: could it have looked different? Could there have been other parts in it? But that is how it is to make an agreement, and that is where we think we have come up with a very good agreement which, in fact, has given all the parties to the conciliation what they have come for, and it is clear that then each of us puts the emphasis on what has been important to us. The Green part has been important to us in the Alternative, and then there are some other parties, including the Left, who have emphasised some other things. And that is how it is to be a conciliation group and to make an agreement. But in the alternative, we think that we have reached a good settlement, yes, we think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154212	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154214	Well, it's absolutely true that everyone can see themselves in it. What I'm just thinking is that sir... Lars Løkke Rasmussen had promised the voters this craftsman's allowance, and the alternative went in immediately after the election, very quickly I would say it was a meeting in a few hours, and saved a certain body part on the new prime minister. I am just a little surprised that we could come out with a result where, if I may say so, what we paid in that situation was considerably more than what we got out to what the alternative would have liked. So I understand the thinking, but my view is that you have served Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen a little more than you've earned the green respect for this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154302	It's hard to know what would have happened if the alternative hadn't made this arrangement, but one can then think about whether Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had then gone to some other parties in this Chamber and had made some other solutions which had certainly not helped to promote the green scheme or perhaps had strengthened equality in society. It might be that he had approached some other parties and made some other solutions. It's hard to know. We went into this green housing job scheme because, in part of the green housing job scheme, we have secured a climate allowance of DKK 12,000 which promotes environmental and climate-friendly improvements in the properties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154338	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154354	One can safely say that this is not the first time we have discussed this so-called green housing, so-called job scheme. There is a good reason for this, and it is that the scheme has nothing to do with either promoting employment or promoting the green transition, even if the title says so. But the reason why we are discussing it a lot is also that it is still a small political mystery for many of us, how both the alternative and the SF would be able to jump on board this and thus, it can be said, save the Løkke government with regard to one of the electoral promises for which it would not otherwise have a majority. There was a very good reason for not having a majority in favour of this, namely that the scheme benefits neither employment nor green conversion nor the fight against black work. I say this not because I want to bother the SF and the alternative, but because we are in a situation where there is a need to hold hands under employment and so much need to find an antidote to the many savings that this government has made in the green area and which I know hurts the SF and the alternative as it does on the Radical Left and many other parties in the Folketing. Therefore, it would just have been incredibly fun if we could have stood together to spend the hundreds of millions of kroner on something that actually benefited both employment, the environment and the climate and perhaps even rural areas. One of the places where the government has cut down the hardest is on green private projects in rural areas, which, after all, is damaging the private employment out there in addition to the green conversion and popular anchoring. It is almost superfluous if I now state that this bill does not enjoy the support of the Radical Left. It will not be, because we are in favour of taxpayers' money being spent where it does not benefit where you can pursue empty policy of value and symbolism, without taking anyone anywhere else, except to get rid of the money. To the right, I would say: what if the same money was used for tax cuts? To the SF and the alternative, what if we had the money to patch up the new government's savings in the whole green area? The Radical Left is voting with very, very firm conviction on this proposal. We are deeply opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154622	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119154637	Much has been said and written about the green housing job scheme or the green craftsman's allowance, that is quite right. When I look beyond the palette of what else we do in the Folketing of green agreements etc., I have to say that I have an idea that this is not so much what some parties are concerned with. But what several, both from Radical and from Enhedslisten, have said is that the Alternative and SF should have saved the Prime Minister. So it is simply christiansborgfnidderfnader of the worst drawer, because it is clear that if we could have secured another government by our actions, then we would have done so. We think that there is enormous cost to having that government with the support parties that we have. There should be no doubt about that. But it is clear that the Prime Minister had just looked to the right so far out, he could look if we had not made a green handicraft allowance. So in this way you can ask: what had we got? Then we would have had a black handicraft allowance, and then the parties that would have supported it would have to be paid by box one. I'm really glad SF is really happy, and I also know that the alternative is really happy with that agreement. I have sat with the Alternative's negotiator over at the Treasury with the Treasury Minister hour after hour and crossed out and crossed out and added and added until we could agree that what was on the table was green. Then I have to say that continuing to pull forward calculations that have been made before an agreement was on the table is simply something strange. You don't. We do not know what elements should be in it; we do not know how green it should be; we do not know how the distribution should be; but we do think that it can have it and the climate effect and CO2 Now there is an agreement on the table, and when the comments of the bill say that there will be a green effect, but that we cannot get closer, it is because this agreement has not existed before. We have had a housing job scheme, we have not had a green housing job scheme, and that is why we cannot get closer. But in relation to some of the many things that now need to be applied in order to be deducted, I would like to hear at least those parts in here, which also call themselves green, about heat pumps, geothermal, energy advice, climate protection, insulation, ballast windows, change of chimney height, solar collectors and solar cells, household windmills, and I could go on and on, is not green. It's not for fun, the SF and the Alternative have been sitting over in the Treasury for a very long time to remove everything we didn't think was green, and get what we thought was green, so we finally had an agreement we could see ourselves in. Then I have to say: yes, we have spent what is roughly 400 million. kr. Next year, 2016 and 2017 on this deal, but fortunately we spend quite a lot of money in this country and in this Parliament on green initiatives. And no, it doesn't always have a super sharp social profile, and it's a party like Enhedslisten also well aware of that. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. We do support ecology, we know who buys the most ecologically, but we do it anyway because it serves a different purpose. Then you have to make distribution policies in a different way. SF is really happy with this deal. We proposed it ourselves six months before we made the agreement, and we would in no way have done it if we had thought that we could have another government together, but that is not what we are talking about. We've got a green housing job scheme. It's become half as expensive as you thought it would be. It annoyed the tax minister, and maybe he'll talk about it himself. It was not an end in itself, but it was simply because so many things were taken out of the gross list because we did not want anything left on the list that was not green. So I look forward to in a year's time when we can evaluate it further, but of course it becomes green, because you can only get deductions within the green housing job scheme on what is now green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155125	There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155130	Let me start with an admission: I agree very much with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that if you think you have a good cause and if you can make an agreement on it with any government, then you have to do so. This is also the case in the Radical Left. If we can do something better, rather than somebody else doing it. I just don't think it quite holds in this case, because as far as I can count the seats in the Parliament there would have been no agreement on this if SF hadn't saved the government on it. After all, no other party wanted to go in to create a so-called, if I may say so, black housing job scheme. Why? Because this is the wrong way to spend the money, even if you think about employment, undeclared work, etc. I dare to predict what the environmental impact will end up with this. Indeed, I believe that the calculations that have been made are correct when it appears that they are very close to zero, because the so-called death-weight loss, as it is called, is very large, so people would have done this anyway. A quick example: I am about to change my roof at home. It costs between $200,000 and $400,000, depending on how much I isolate, and there's a drop in the ocean. It's not really what decides if I change my roof or if I make a heat pump. And that's why SF must also have the feeling that this is not the most effective way to make green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155252	It's true that if you're going to spend $100,000. or more on a big project, it's not this that makes it on or off. But there are a lot of smaller projects that people do not necessarily get done because they think that they do in the next few years or when they get the money. When you can get this deduction in a household with an adult person, it may be what just makes you get the ledge windows set up anyway, that you still get some of the smaller things done, which in the big accounts together gives something. Now there was a Paris summit in the autumn, and we all agreed on at least the author's party and SF that this is so important that any political direction we can take that helps lower the energy level, which helps make a difference, we must support. Then there is also what is called the level of self-financing or the behavioural effect, which is 12 and 20 per cent respectively. Of course, that is not all, but for at least some of the parties that care about undeclared work, it is something anyway. Then I have to say again that I think this is a good agreement and we are in favour of it in the SF. And no, we wouldn't have had another prime minister if we hadn't made this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155405	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155409	I do not believe that the latter, and I do not think I have claimed that either, unfortunately, that the government should stand and fall by it, but I just do not understand that one would do a favour if one did not get anything for it. If there was a big green effect, if you had drawn it in a right direction, I could understand it, but that is not the case. I think we have to conclude that what is the difference between the SF and the Radical Left here is that we are not indifferent to the price at which the green conversion is made. In fact, we believe that if we are to achieve the level of ambition that we want to achieve, we have to spend every penny we spend on the green transition on something that beats. This does not do so, and because it indirectly harms the green transition, we think it is a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155455	We must always take care of taxpayers' money, including when it comes to green conversion. Regardless of the fact that you are making a green housing job scheme, that you are trying to promote solar cells or whatever it is, you have to pay close attention to how to spend taxpayers' money. We have also been on the part of the SF, and we think it is fair that we spend 400 million. kr. In this area. Part of the agreement also became the orange urban renewal scheme, where tenants and owners can enter into a joint agreement that if the owner of a rental apartment says OK. For this, you can also use the deduction there. So we've weighed all the parts, and we think this is going in the right direction, and that's why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155535	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155538	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I simply have to say that when the rapporteur concluded his speech by saying that everything that is being done here has now been guaranteed to be green, it is notoriously wrong for the time when child care, cleaning and everything else can still be deducted, and that it is even estimated in the Ministry that a larger part of the scheme will go over. Then you can say: No, you have not been given any guarantee that it is green enough. Then we have discussed very much whether there has been any guarantee of where the money will come from, and in the question hour that we have just finished, the rapporteur's President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, said to the Prime Minister: why hasn't more money been spent on foreign aid? The Prime Minister replied: we had a budget to go up, among other things. to finance the agreement we had made with your party, i.e. SF, on the green housing job scheme. So what exactly is SF's guarantee that SF has not helped take the money from some places, which I honestly think SF would rather have prioritised, especially when the scheme is not guaranteed green?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155645	Once again I must say that what has been out has been considerations, air castles, about something you thought you could end up making out of an agreement. It hasn't been calculated after all. The Ministry also says in the bill in the comments: we strongly expect that there is a green effect because the green housing job scheme, not the service part, is green measures, but we cannot get closer because we have not had a green housing job scheme before. So in this way I would say that I cannot imagine that one can have a scheme that consists only of green points and that then it does not turn green. Then it can't be used, and then no money has been spent. That's logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155729	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155731	No, it's because it says in this answer that it doesn't just consist of green points and that what you had in the old days, which was the black housing job scheme, was actually also green, and that the service part that is not green in the new one is expected to fill more. That's what's undermining it. So let us just say that now, apparently, we can't count on anything when it hasn't existed, but foreign aid has existed, so how does the SF rapporteur feel about these things being the things you help to cut back on in order to raise money for an inefficient green housing job scheme that doesn't provide any jobs and doesn't give a very big climate effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155808	Every time we have these discussions, we hear that the Treasury is a pool and that when you spend some money on something, you automatically take them from somewhere else, so I have to say that it may be, just as it was with the tax agreement in 2012: there were discussions about whether you should spend more than 4 billion. kr. in corporate tax reliefs, which gave zero jobs; the AE Council said it was the worst way to create growth and jobs; and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior also ranked it the lowest in terms of creating growth and jobs. One might also ask oneself: is that a good way to spend 4 billion? kr. On? So I just think it will be simplistic, and I think the rapporteur will agree with that, if he listens to what I say to him, that is to say it is simplistic to say that when you take some money from here, it goes by. automatics from somewhere else. So I would like a follow-up reply, perhaps from the rapporteur's colleague, because then we can always discuss whether, when you grant tax relief or make business packages or whatever it may be, it is going to affect the greens or educators or what it does. We can discuss this forever, and I have also noticed that this is a major part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155917	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119155922	There's a lot of nuances in this. It is then a very bright green agreement on a housing job scheme where there will probably be some example of a single citizen doing something that is green. But this is not a targeted policy, and that is the problem with it. I can imagine that an agreement could be reached where it is very targeted and much more specialized what support can be obtained for. So we also have to look at where the money comes from, where the 400 million. kr. Come from. After all, they are financed through a coal-black and anti-social financial law, which takes money from the poorest and from development aid, and which cuts hard in the green area. So it has to be said that this light green housing job scheme is financed by a financial law which the SF cannot support either. So I'm having a little trouble seeing why SF thinks it's so great to be part of this deal when it's funded in that way, and when the agreement isn't targeted to ensure that it's green actions that are being carried out at home owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160020	I don't think I heard a question. Maybe that's a comment. Can I repeat the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160031	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160032	I cannot understand why the SF cannot see that the financing of this agreement is deeply antisocial when it is financed by the Finance Act, which SF is not part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160043	In other words, it is still not a question of language. It is a statement of what the rapporteur himself feels, and that is also fine. I just have to say that there is, for example. in 2013 were a lot of palavers between the then government, which SF was part of, and Enhedslisten because we discussed the daily allowance. It was a hot topic at that time, and it was something that several of us really cared about. There was no agreement, and Enhedslisten made it really angry and actually also SF, but what happened anyway? It ended up with a finance bill where we spent 1.5 billion. kr. • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • Green initiatives; • It was not particularly targeted initiatives, but it was for something that Enhedslisten was happy about, and it was for something that SF was happy about. Did this mean that the benefit recipients paid for the green initiatives? Well, that's what it did after mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160122	Sir. Jesper Kiel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160126	Now some of this discussion is about what SF's success criteria really are. I understand that, in relation to the social profile, it has been accepted that it may well be that it is the most wealthy people in society who spend the money. But what is the success criterion in relation to the green profile? After all, there are a number of points in the agreement where you can use the deduction on window cleaning, childcare, cleaning, painting your house outside, painting your windows or doors, or you can change a door. It may be a more insulating door, but it does not really say anything about that. But there are a whole series of measures that are not green. You can also get broadband, which also has no effect on the climate. There are also some things that are more climate protection than are actually aimed at reducing CO2 So what is SF's success criterion? If half the money goes to everything else, that is, everything that has no effect on CO2, what's the success criterion in this? And is it not perhaps also in relation to the social aspect of the SF that there is so much of the wealthiest who spend this money and who might have taken steps to get these things done anyway, because they have the money for it? This is not really new, but just a tax rebate for something that had been implemented anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160250	In absolute terms, i.e. in absolute numbers of people who have used the old system, which we cannot compare with the new system, it is far more of them than the lower incomes that have used it. But it is true that it is not proportional to the population composition I think that is what the rapporteur thinks. But the success criterion is that we move forward in relation to the green transition. The success criterion is that people are reinsulated, that they have their chimney height changed, as this poses a rather big health problem, that they have taken some measures that save energy, which ensure less CO2 etc. It is a success criterion that all the things we have listed are being used to a greater extent. Then it can be said that the green housing job scheme has two siblings, so to speak, namely service and broadband. As far as the broad band is concerned, it was something that DF wanted to bring, and we from the SF and the Alternative also said that it was actually very fine, because we think it is a huge problem for rural areas that you still do not have proper broadband in many places, so we could live with that very well. In relation to the service allowance there is a self-financing rate of 20%, so after all it also has some effect on undeclared work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160411	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160414	I think the rapporteur shrugged around a bit. If it is to be a success and you have to be able to call it a green housing job scheme, it must surely be the majority that goes to the green stuff and not to window cleaning and painting windows and to broadband and something like that. I would like to hear the rapporteur again about something: rural areas are now mentioned in relation to broadband. If you try to go to your local broadband provider's website and then choose somewhere • it may be, you know someone in the country who lives far away from the alpha route • chooses an address there and asks what it costs to get broadband there, then they say: Well you can't get that. This means that some of those we are talking about cannot get broadband at all, and so they cannot get this subsidy at all, because then they will have to get the whole village to agree to turn to get through this tax rebate at all. That is why, once again, it is often those who should have had broadband that now receive the discount.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160509	No, that's not exactly true. There can be but the rapporteur does not have so many questions for me, so I can try to fill the time with what we think is important. We thought it was good that broadband was included. That was not our main purpose. Our main objective was to make an existing housing job scheme green and only green. Over at the Treasury Minister's office, it was also several times on the agenda how we can make things better for the shareholders. It could not be done in the existing package to bring them in completely. SF would have liked us to have made an action aimed solely at the shareholders and tenants, but this was not possible except for this orange urban renewal part of the package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160608	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160611	Thank you. I think I'm just gonna follow up on sir. Jens Joels and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's question, because it is not insignificant where the money comes from when you make this kind of arrangements, and especially in these for our country as difficult times as it is, after all, in all kinds of areas. I would just like to make something clear there, because the rapporteur said earlier that the SF had gone to the negotiations with its own funding proposal and so on, but it is in fact, as I read the agreement, only half an agreement has been made. Because we have agreed to spend the money, and the money is then spent on the funding that the government has found in particular by means of an exceptionally biased and black financial law, but no guarantees have been given as to where the money for this particular proposal would otherwise come from. Can the rapporteur clarify that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160702	It was a good thing that the rapporteur's colleague could just skip the question that has been asked a thousand times in the debate, I think also when we had dealt with it for the first time. It is true that when we made the agreement, we said: it must be financed by the Finance Act. That's right. In the SF, we had our own proposal, namely to roll back the corporate tax reliefs on which there was great controversy when we sat in the government which cost 4 billion. kr., and who gave zero jobs. This is another discussion. But it is just to say that there is not always a link between the number of jobs and the costs and something that is not green at all. But in this way it is part of the Finance Act. That's right. In the one we made for 2015, and perhaps the questioner knows, it was taken from the reserve, so it had no impact on the Finance Act. But for 2016 and 2017 it will be part of the Finance Act. The SF will make a number of proposals on how we can get more money in the treasury, and that is why I hope that the Socialists will not agree to any more legislative proposals or agreements with the government to give tax relief, neither to the richest nor to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160807	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160809	First of all, it can be said that what we have discovered and what we can read from the Ministry's answer is that this is, in particular, an indirect relief to the richest homeowners. That is what has been noted in many different studies and in ministerial replies. But that was just an interesting answer, and that is just what we should have clarified, namely that this scheme has been financed and that is also what the SF accepts from a historically biased and very, very black financial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160837	No, I would say that it is the opposite, because in the black housing job scheme, which the author's party was involved in doing, there was an imbalance in relation to the composition of the population. But in absolute terms, then, for each person who used it, there were many more in the middle and low-income groups who used the black housing job scheme. All predictions show that when it turns green and thus energy-saving, it has an even greater effect on the low income groups, because you can no longer get deductions anymore to make a Jacuzzi or a luxury kitchen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160913	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119160927	We support this proposal very, very positively. It escapes perfectly conservative ideas of moving black work to white work; it is beneficial for the economy and it is beneficial for employment. Then how do I know? Well, you can see from the figures that it has given more employees; you can see that over 600,000 Danes have taken advantage of the scheme, of which about the discussion that we have just had over half have an annual income of less than DKK 350,000. So, it's Mr. Knox. and Mrs Denmark, who has used the scheme. We also know that Kraka, the think tank Kraka, has made a major study of this, which shows that if you made a housing job plan without any limit, it would increase employment and that would have a great social benefit. That is why we have proposed from the conservative side that the scheme be improved even by the fact that there are no limits and that it flees what is being worked for in Sweden, so that a larger subsidy is granted not only a deduction, but a subsidy to move workers from black work to white work, so that the resources of society were used even better than they are doing today. That is why we Conservatives are also pleased that it is in the text that we, as the contracting party, have helped to make, that we should have it examined by looking at the Swedish model to see how we can be inspired. Moreover, I find it difficult to understand how such a system can be opposed, even if I have listened to the discussion that has been going on here and now. How can one be against families being given a subsidy to get things done at home, which means using resources better in our society? Instead of me, a man with ten thumbs, doing a lot of power at home, I can now get someone to do what can do even better than me, and who can get some money for it, hire a Sweyn, hire an apprentice and thus get a really good system going. So for me, it is pure win-win if we do the scheme as good as possible, and that is why we can of course support the government's proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161137	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jesper Kiel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161143	I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Surely there must be a special pleasure in having, as a conservative, lured the SF and the alternative into the idea that the most wealthy in society will enjoy this arrangement and can get help with window cleaning and have the windows painted and something like that. Isn't there a great pleasure in having made such an agreement as a conservative?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161203	I think that the SF and the Alternative show great financial responsibility by ensuring that a scheme that is both green, is climate-friendly, provides jobs and has good socio-economics. As I mentioned before, the figures show that over half of those who use the scheme have an annual income of less than DKK 350,000, and I will not characterize them as the richest and most wealthy in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161228	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161230	But do we not agree that the richest half will in turn receive a much greater deduction and that the bulk of the money will thus go to the wealthiest part of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161241	No. The deduction is the same. The thing is, some people use it more than others. It is clearly those who have more money that can spend it more. This means that a number of workers are employed and some apprentices are employed by the masonry master, the carpenter's master, the electrical installer, the plumber's manager, and this is of course for the benefit of the economy. But what is in the figures, and what is the naked facts, is that over half of the people who have used this scheme have a household income of less than DKK 350,000 and that is Mr. and Mrs. Denmark, these are ordinary people. So that's why it's for the benefit of all the people in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161313	Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161317	I note that the Conservative rapporteur says that there is a good socio-economic aspect to this. I'd like to define that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161325	If you read the report that Kraka published about six months ago, you can see that they point out the great gains that are for society. It is quite explicit that there are two major gains. There is an employment effect, and there is a beneficial socio-economic effect in it, the conclusions of the think tank Kraka show.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161344	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161346	There is a great employment effect, it is said. Is it true that the rapporteur could have had a greater effect on employment if something else had been done, and thus a greater benefit to society? Or could it be imagined that we could have gained a greater social benefit from the tax relief if it had not been decided that it was only for craftsmen, but could also apply to something that was bought down in SuperBrugsen or somewhere else? I mean, it's a totally awkward way to argue here in the Folketing when you stand and say that it's because we can buy some of each other. Yes, that's how our society works. But does the rapporteur deny the reports that have been made that, if something had been chosen to do other than this scheme, there would have been much more employment impact on the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161437	Yeah, that's one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. and the DKK 12,000, a total of DKK 18,000, or as previously DKK 15,000. And when you ask the Social Democrats in Sweden, they say that this is the best system they have, because it provides a great deal of employment and benefits the economy. How does it benefit Sweden's economy? Yes, some resources are being moved from the black economy to the white economy because you get some employees who pay tax and pay VAT. That is why the Swedes, the Swedish Social Democrats, are so excited about it, and that is why the Conservatives in Denmark are so excited about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161518	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161521	The consultation note says, among other things, that: The Employment Council of the Workers' Movement considers that the continuation of the Housing Job Scheme is an error of priority. It shall be indicated in particular: with reference to the analysis "The deduction of handicrafts becomes skewer and skewer" (www.ae.dk) at 30%. of the total deduction goes to the richest 10%. of the families and that the deduction is made mainly by families in Copenhagen and north of Copenhagen. I understand that the rapporteur is very pleased that this scheme can now continue with a little green heading. Is it true that we are dealing here with the fact that there are some conservative core voters in the north of Copenhagen and north of Copenhagen who are particularly pleased by this scheme, which is now moving on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161604	I have complete respect for the fact that the Enhedslisten is against. I just think it's the same pork that Enhedslisten's members are driving in here now. I think we should look at the figures. It may be that the AE writes what they do. There are 600,000 Danes who have used the scheme last year, and more than half of them had an annual income of less than DKK 350,000. These are not rich North Zealanders, so over half of them cannot have been rich North Zealanders. It is clear that if rich North Zealanders spend it more, they can deduct some more money, but that is the way it is. They also buy more into SuperBrugsen or in Kvickly, or where it is they shop. This is the way the world is set up. But of the people who have used it, it is more than half who have an annual income of less than DKK 350,000, and it must be described as Mr. and Mrs. Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161648	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161651	So I have to say that the richest of these things are getting the most out of it. I think it's a little too bad that you use state resources like this. After all, it is 400 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What if we had now, in cooperation, decided to spend 400 million? kr. 100 per cent. Green measures, which included EUDP funds, larger heat pumps, geothermal, etc. Then we could really get something green out of this with the Conservatives. I think it's too bad you waste money on this. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not see that there might be other ways to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161729	Well for us, it hasn't been a question of either-or, but of boats-and. We fully agree that the government has been too brutal in the environmental field. There have been too much savings, for example. in the EUDP area and in all sorts of other environmental programmes, and we would like to help find some more money for that, also with a majority in the Folketing. This does not mean that out of 1 100 billion people are not. kr., which is our state budget, can find money to create a sensible housing job scheme that provides more workers who move black work to white work, which benefits ordinary Danish families, who solve some of the problems they have at home and who, according to the think tank Kraka, are beneficial to the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161804	Mrs. Merete Riisager? She's gonna drop out. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119161820	Thank you for the predominantly positive reception of the proposal by a majority in the Folketing. I would like to sign up to the broad palette of parties that have wanted not only to maintain but also to further develop what has been and is a well-functioning scheme: the housing job scheme, the craft allowance, which helps busy families in everyday life and makes it more favorable to renovate homes, now with a particular focus on energy-friendly solutions. On top of that, we also change the scheme so that it supports the establishment of well-functioning broadband in all parts of Denmark. A number of arguments have been put forward, as has been the case today, against the scheme we are now continuing in a green version. Among other things, it has. the effect of the scheme on employment. In the government, and I am also doing this as a tax minister, we place emphasis not only on the employment effect, but also on the fact that we also take other considerations into account. Among other things, it can be done. In the area of housing jobs, we now have a system which continues to support service and craft industries, including in the outermost regions, and which, as I think the rapporteur on the Left also mentioned, provides a hand in helping families with children. Moreover, it reduces the amount of undeclared work and, moreover, the new green housing job scheme has a greater impact on reducing the amount of undeclared work. Of course, it might be desirable for there to be a greater effect, but I think it should be noted that the effect is greater than that of the previous system. In fact, I think that we have found a good balance where there has been room to maintain a deduction for services, while at the same time extending the scheme to include a number of green craft services that provide ordinary Danes with greater courage on energy renovations and climate adjustments. As a result of these changes in benefits and limits, there may be a need for increased guidance efforts, and this is also reflected in the draft law. And I am convinced that SKAT, as before, will succeed in the best way possible. I should just like to address some of the criticisms that have been made here today, and I believe that a single consultation was also referred to. You have, of course, been very concerned about whether more jobs could have been created for the money. I replied to the consultation in question: yes, you could. If you take a strict economic view of this, you could have chosen to do other things which, perhaps on the basis of the calculation model that we base when we make legislation, which the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance are counting on, would have created more employment. It is such a purely economic view, and I think we have to acknowledge that, but we are not economists. I am not an economist of education, and as Minister of Taxation I not only attach weight and value to economic arguments. I am a politician, and that is why there are some other considerations to take into account in relation to the continuation of the housing job scheme. If only pure economic arguments were to be used as a basis for legislation, we would have to change many things in our society. Just to mention a few, which I think the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, mentioned, there is the whole focus on ecology, which we should not do, because that is not necessarily socio-economically sensible. There is also the whole Danish commitment to renewable energy, which my own party has supported a long way along the way. I also believe that there are several reports from the Economic Council that the socio-economic community must now take care of what words I take in my mouth could be done much more sensibly than the way a political majority in Christiansborg has chosen. However, it has been decided to focus on renewable energy, on wind energy, also for reasons other than economic ones. I think that's legitimate. It is not because I, as a tax minister or as a member of the Folketing, always agree, but I think it is legitimate to place anything other than a narrow economic view on the policy we are doing. I think that would make politics very poor. We must, of course, listen to the economic arguments. That's what's been done about this housing job scheme. That is why it is also adapted, and I would like to acknowledge that there are individual parties which, although they do not support the scheme, have noted that improvements have been made: the price of the housing job scheme has fallen from about 1 billion. kr. for small 400 million. kr., and it falls further in 2017; the scheme has turned green and supports to a greater extent than before the green transition and climate and energy. This has been a particular desire of the Alternative and Socialist People's Party, and we have the other parties who have chosen to comply with it. It has also been a wish for the Conservative People's Party to focus on some of the green aspects. We have taken that down, and that is reflected in the system that is in place. I think that there is a good balance between things in the agreement and the fact that there are so many Danes who have used the old housing job scheme and hopefully will also use the new one, I think a signal that some political parties who do not support the scheme should take down. When you go out that way in reality, you see that it is actually perceived as something that is positive and that people are happy about it. Of course, the reason why they are happy about it may also be that it is, of course, not a tax relief by the back door, but a deduction, even for a purpose. There, of course, you could choose and I think that is entirely legitimate to take up the view of Mrs Merete Riisager and the Liberal Alliance, namely that we should do away with the deduction model we have and spend the money cleanly on lowering taxes on work. And I can sometimes see myself in that, but we have a system in Denmark where we have a number of deductions, because we have chosen to say politically that there are some things that we want to take into account, and in the government we want to take into account the helping hand that the scheme gives to busy families for children and the effect that there is on the limitation of black work. That is why we think it is a sensible arrangement that lies here. Then I'm going to sir. Martin Lidegaard, as I believe from Parliament's platform, said that it is empty policy of symbol and value on the part of the government, say that I disagree with that. After all, it is a bill which will affect a great many Danes and which many can benefit from in different ways, so one can disagree with the regime as the Radical Left is, and not think that it is needed any longer, but it is a scheme that will mean a great deal to a great many Danes, and that is also a reason why it costs 400 million. kr. That's because it's 400 million. kr. that is deducted for. I therefore believe that this is not an empty symbolism policy. Having said that, there may be some questions, and otherwise I would like to thank you for the debate we have had here. I look forward to a constructive committee reading. Then I would like to mention that there is the individual small curl that concerns the fact that the parties behind the agreement decided that the bill should be tabled before the hearing was over, so we tabled the bill in 2015, so that, when it hopefully will be adopted later this year and will apply throughout 2016, from day one hopefully is clear about what rules there are. However, there may be things in the process of committee reading that are in the Folketing that make it necessary to amend the bill, and of course I see this as a minister in an extra constructive way, as a result of our having been in the situation that we have had to put forward the bill in the Folketing without having had the hearing but that it has taken place at the same time. Consultation is something that I, as a tax minister, attach great value to, so when you do it this way we have agreed that the consultation parties should of course also have the opportunity to be heard, and I will go constructively to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162637	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162641	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his point of emphasising that, as a politician, we should not just have this calculation model idea. I hope that the ears of our former colleagues from the red bloc will be sharpened, because I think that a little bit of arithmetic went into it under the last government. We need to do something about that. But I really wanted to ask you something. We heard Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen say earlier that the Minister was actually annoyed that it was going to cost less than was thought. I mentioned this earlier about the fact that I may think it's a little bad trade in connection with the SF and the Alternative, because you dropped 1 billion. kr. to a black housing job scheme and then to get twice 400 million. kr. to a green one. I would just like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that this was the case, and I would also like to ask if, if you had really been upset, you could have just lifted the deduction for green investment slightly, just like to balance slightly more in what you paid for the agreement from the SF and the Alternative, and what you got the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162748	I think that, as a politician, when you make a political agreement, you have a negotiating process and you get a result, per person. the definition should be happy with it, otherwise the agreement would not have been made. I'm happy about what's going on here, and I'm not really sorry about anything. The government has wanted to continue with the housing job scheme in unchanged form, and the SF and the alternative made clear demands that it should be green, and that is what we have targeted. It is true that I can fully confirm that the SF and the Alternative have been sitting and saying these things, namely that they thought they were not green, that they thought they were not climate-friendly and that they have pulled things out. Then it came to cost less, and that money has then been spent on something else in the Finance Act, and I think the Finance Act is overall sensible, so I can stand up for it. I think that with the housing job scheme we have actually made a very fine political compromise between a very broad majority at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162850	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162851	I have no doubt, however, that the Minister believes that the Finance Act is good, but I just know that this is not the case for the SF and the Alternative. And that is why one may wonder why they didn't pay for it a little better; because of course this was something that was really important for the Prime Minister to get into the house. That is why I just wanted to hear: was there a debate on, for example. to increase the deduction so that at least an extent was reached in this green scheme that was just about equivalent to what was the scope of the black housing job scheme from 2015? Or was it not at all a demand made by the two parties in the debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119162925	I'd rather call it the blue housing job scheme from 2015 than the black one; I certainly don't buy that one called it. However, I fully recognise that the scheme we are now getting is green and substantially greener than the one we have before. If I have to answer the question that way, I can say that an agreement was reached on the government basis this summer. There the limits were laid down, and my task as tax minister has been to fill out and that has been what the negotiations have been about. Of course, you could have chosen to do the other, but you haven't. And when you have made a political agreement, you have to stand by it too. The parties behind the new green housing job scheme have done so, and I would actually like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163009	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Yeah, someone came here at the end, and we're just gonna get it, and it's from sir. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163018	Thank you for that, and thank you for your understanding. Now it has been very up and running both when the SF's rapporteur was on the platform and when the Alternativet's rapporteur was up there where this money came from. And then it just occurred to me that it is not because we want to be bad people that we are asking about this today; it is, in fact, because it has been highlighted. For example: says the Alternative Financial Rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, to Danmarks Radio when the agreement is concluded: we have a clear agreement that there is no money going from refugees, development or public welfare. It was written on Twitter and then transferred to the Danish Radio website. Then I just want to know if the tax minister can confirm that there's been such an agreement that the money couldn't come from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163104	Well, I can confirm that I do not regard the Socialists as bad people. In fact, I think that all the people I know in the Folketing are good people. I do not always agree with them, but that is the way it is; it is also part of our people's government. In relation to that funding issue, I can see the path they are going to take from the Social Democrats, where they say that if you are not in the whole budget law and only help to spend some of the money, you have to point out exactly where it comes from. I think it is a bit like simplistic politics, because you can't take a budget bill of 1,000 billion. kr. and say: this is the room for manoeuvre, and that is the money that goes there. It's a little more complicated than that. I mean, we're not making a financial law where we say: this is funded by the room for manoeuvre, this is funded by development aid, and this is funded by something quite third. We are continuing the practice of the Finance Act and the Finance Law negotiations, which have also been conducted by previous governments. And I think we should continue with it instead of starting that debate about what this costs and exactly where it is financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163211	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163213	Yeah, yeah, but it's not something we've come up with with with all due respect. In other words, we have just been through a process of police conciliation, in which the Minister for Finance of the Minister for Taxation said that this could only come from education and where we actually got written into the agreement that we would be freed from vocational training and, moreover, reduced the savings that had to be made. So we cannot demand that we live up to certain things and at the same time, when negotiating with other parties, say that they should not live up to these things. So I guess it's very relevant to ask: has it been part of the agreement? In other words, has there been any guarantee that they do not come from this expenditure on refugees or to welfare, as was the expectation of the Alternative and the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163300	The financial intersections in the Finance Act are perhaps just as much a political exercise. I think we must be honest in saying that, and we can then choose to accept that premise in order to enter into a debate or not. So, what the agreement says, we have taken note of it, and there is something left in the agreement from this summer. But with regard to going in and saying something specific about it and that element of the Finance Act, I would say that this is not the way to do the math, and I would just warn against making it such a parameter for all political debate, because then we cannot spend time on anything else. The Finance Act is where the accounts are drawn up, and then there are some parties that are involved in compromises, and something can be financed in different ways, at the financing intersection, and then there is the big accounting, which some parties are behind. And I have noted that the SF and the Alternative have not voted in favour of the Finance Act because they do not oppose my party and the government think it is good and useful for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163356	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163358	But as I understand it, we cannot be told where the money for this housing job scheme comes from. It is the parties that have now created the Finance Act that have provided the money, and the funding provided by the Finance Act is what has provided the money in broad terms. So if you have voted for this, you have to live with the money coming from the Finance Act, where they have now been taken. I guess that's understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163422	After all, it is money that has been provided in the Finance Act. You don't put labels on exactly what the whole room is for and how much room for manoeuvre is. There are also plenty of things that are not even negotiated around the Finance Act table, because there are a lot of things that need to be operated. So we've got a good time, and I also think that Mr. Knox... Brian Mikkelsen referred to this as a government budget of 1,000 to 1,100 billion. I don't think you should spend your time as a politician. You can do it, but I think it's too bad. It's true that these 400 million. kr. I think it is a good and sensible way of using this 410 million. kr. On. I am glad that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament agrees with this and I had hoped that Enhedslisten would also support it, but I am not surprised that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163520	Sir. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163521	I think that the answer we are getting here, that we are making an agreement to spend money without knowing where the money comes from, means that we are also jointly responsible for the funding that is now in the Finance Act. That is why the Enhedslisten is of course concerned, in addition to the fact that we are concerned about whether there is as much green out of it as some people are talking it up to here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163543	I think I can recall one or two finance agreements under the previous government, where Enhedslisten did not support everything, but was part of partial agreements and also resulted in pools where the money did not necessarily come from. I think that all parties, what to say, have been part of that system. So the thing about making it completely square, you can decide for yourself if you want to. I don't agree with that model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163617	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163619	Just one question: Can the Minister confirm that the extension of the housing job scheme in 2015 was financed by the reserve and that therefore it was not money that had been taken from anywhere and that should otherwise have been translated into welfare areas, and that this was the extension to which Mrs Josephine Fock refers, namely that 2015 was funded through the reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163643	Yes, I can confirm that. It is financed by a small amount of consumption, so I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163650	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is resigning. Then there are no further brief comments, and then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163712	The debate is open and we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119163732	Thank you very much. The bill we are discussing here today is one of the many skewed measures in the agreement on the Finance Act for 2016. For even though the then Chairman of the Group of the Left already said in the autumn of 2013 that it is a municipal decision, how to give priority to us choosing to give the municipalities the freedom to make the decision ourselves, then we are here today to deal with a proposal to freeze the ground debt. The proposal alone this year will cost 570 million. kr. After retreat and behavior, next year the price is 510 million. kr., and so it continues in the years ahead. Nor is it a secret, even after the debate we have had here and now, that the money comes directly from savings in municipal welfare and in the years ahead from savings in the housing benefits of the weakest pensioners, and even though the Danish People's Party has postponed that agreement, it is still a saving that lies lurking on the horizon. Not only is this tax relief financed with money found in welfare savings, but it also hits doubles in a way, because, as the National Association of Municipalities notes in their consultation answer, there is no guarantee that the municipalities will be financially compensated from 2017 rather than the loss of revenue imposed on them by the government and the other bourgeois parties. This means that it will also lead to less investment in our municipal welfare. The starting point of the social democracy is that basic guilt is an important treasure. The landlord's landlord's debts amounted to approx. 15 billion kr. in 2015. In addition, there are grounds for other reasons of about 10 billion. kr. It is therefore money that is invested directly in schools, in day care institutions, in hospitals and in the safety of all citizens. That's fair. The reason for this is, for example: It is also much less damaging to employment and labour supply than other taxes and taxes, and it will result in a strong redistribution in favour of wealthy groups in Denmark if we remove it. We recognise, I would say, that the economy may be under pressure for those families whose economy is under pressure when it is that the basic value is growing very much. We must also bear in mind that the increase in value experienced by the individual owner of the dwelling is also due to the individual owner, even tax-free, when choosing to redeem the value at some point. The proposal to freeze the land debt and thus give tax relief to the homeowners will mean that housing prices will rise. This will potentially include: together with the extremely low interest rates could lay the foundation for a new home bubble and lead to a dangerous overheating of the Danish economy such as the one we saw in the years leading up to the financial crisis, and which several indeed also warns is happening here in the metropolitan area. A freeze will in particular increase the price increases in the Copenhagen area, where prices have already risen relatively sharply, and this will make it even more expensive and even more difficult for Danes to establish themselves on the housing market. Worse, then, when you choose a model which excludes rentals and cohabitants. Thus, the bill is a unilateral tax relief for homeowners, which we can also read in the hearings that the Land Organisation of Rents, the Elders Case and the ABF are protesting about. So to sum up: a freeze on the land is geographical and distributionally biased and does not act as an incentive to work or to save. The money was much wiser spent on welfare. Social democracy doesn't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164048	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164053	I would like to hear where it is empirically wrong that you are going to pay exactly the same in the ground debt next year that you pay this year, for the municipalities where you pay most in the ground debt of your income are • and now I list them up • Rødovre, Ballerup and Herlev. These are the municipalities where the citizens pay the most in the land due to their income, and I do not think it is possible to talk about the fact that it is particularly socially wrong that they will then have the opportunity to stay in their homes and experience that they will pay the same in the ground debt next year and this year as they paid last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164129	What the rapporteur from the Conservatives forgot to point out is that in the years to come we will have to pay less in the land and that what is socially wrong is that those people already experience an increase in the value of their homes. That's what this is all about. It is not necessarily so much about what kind of municipalities they are and what kind of background history some of these municipalities have and how the composition of the residents is there. After all, it is about what values are accumulated in the property increases that we are experiencing especially in Copenhagen and outside Copenhagen in these years, and that is where the distribution is both geographically and socially wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164211	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164214	There's nothing wrong with staying in your apartment. Two thirds of Danes live in their own homes in this way. But I do not know how the Social Democratic Party will then explain it to the electorate mentioned in Politiken quite recently. It is a workman, SiDs, who lives in Brønshøj and has voted social-democratic all his life, he is about to retire, and he finds that for his residence in Brønshøj the property taxes are rising so much that the wife and he are now considering whether they will have to sell their house and move from the place where they intend to stay for the next many years. Is it socially wrong to help them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164249	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we have seen every sympathy for those people who experience that the basic values increase as much as they do in these years, and thus also see that there is a difference in the way in which the municipalities set the rate of increase in the debt. We have every sympathy for this, but we cannot at the same time close our eyes to the fact that at the same time it is also people who are experiencing an increase in value in their housing that will be realized at some point when you choose to sell that housing, even tax-free. The very best, and it is just purely imaginary, is not something where we have a finished model or something like that, because there is already a work going on by the Ministry, which was already started under our government, where you have to look at the entire property assessment system • to put the tax on housing in a different way than you do today, and that would probably also make better sense in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164345	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164348	Thank you. Does the Social Democratic Party not recognise that as a family for children it is impossible to live on a possible increase in the value of one's home? When you get hit by this growing ground, you don't have a bigger amount of available money. This means that as a family for children, as a pensioner, as a normal Dane, you have to pay more in tax out of the same income. This means that the room for manoeuvre is the flight suit that cannot be afforded, it can be a holiday, it can be all sorts of things, because the thing is that you don't get any more money between your hands. Then it may well be that you have a fictitious increase in value on a piece of paper, but what are the families of children going to use it for in the very short run?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164432	But the Social Democracy recognises, and that is also what I did in my rapporteur's speech, that this can be difficult for different families. However, this does not change the fact that when we have an economy, family economy, housing economy, etc. that is designed in such a way, there will also be very strong increases in value. The rapporteur may well call them fictional, but the vast majority of people are somehow implementing them at some point, and when they do so they actually do so quite tax-free. And there we have had a system where it is that the municipalities have been able to establish the ground blame, and there are some municipalities that are somehow trying to do less, and some that are doing more. And there it is when we come to the overall conclusion that we think it is a wrong priority that we on the part of the Danish Parliament should go in and freeze the land debt and thus, in the years to come, the municipalities will also be deprived of the possibility of setting the tax on the basic values.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164531	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164533	Thank you. But does the Social Democrats think that, as a family for children, a loan must be made during the years in which you live in the home in order to be able to pay the ground debt, and when you sell the property and get any proceeds, do you have to pay back that loan? For what are the children's families going to do in the years when they do not have the money for the increases that are being experienced? Do you have to move out of your home, or do you have to take out a loan? For these are the two options available to you as a family member or a pensioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164607	No, we do not want anyone to either move or take unnecessary loans for that matter, but we just have to deal with what the housing economy looks like in this country. And there is the fact that there are certain places in the country, not everywhere, but in certain places, there are huge increases in value on real estate, where it is that many people over a decade experience becoming millionaires out of value increases. And they can be called fictitious by the rapporteur, but nevertheless, when you move from there, or when you go down to the bank and you want to change the loan into your home, you suddenly have a lot of money in your hand. The way we have taxed it in the past has, among other things, been: have been increasing in the realm of guilt, and this has been a sensible way of doing so for many years. Then there have been problems with the property assessment, and that is what the Ministry is working on to find a solution to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164700	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur. It's from the Danish People's Party, and it's Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119164709	As mentioned above, this proposal is part of a financial agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. Very concretely, this is one of the demands and wishes of the Conservatives for the Finance Act, but it is part of an agreement, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party support this bill. In short, it is a matter of freezing the ground for ownership in 2016, which means that you will be paying the same amount this year as you did last year. I therefore find it difficult to see that this should be a real tax relief, as some are trying to make it. It can be said in more detail that this is a deferred increase in taxes. What the proposal is doing is, after all, that the increase in the basic debt which could be seen to have been planned has been postponed for one year. So you are not going to pay less than you have otherwise done, but you are going to have the increase postponed. In concrete terms, this is done by the fact that the rate of adjustment, which is determined each year and which this year should have been 6,6 ■ that is what the maximum amount of the debt must be increased by 0 this year. As I have said, this is a wish from the Conservatives to the Finance Act, but we really share many of the views behind it, namely that there have been a number of sharp increases in some areas which may be problematic for, among others, those areas. children's families who were also part of the debate just before and there are pensioners who bought their house in good faith perhaps 20 or 30 years ago and who have planned their finances after they can live in the house when they got older, who are now being squeezed out because of an increasing ground debt. So we can see the problem behind it, and we really think it makes sense to give the homeowners a breathing space of one year. It is a breathing space at a time when the property assessment system has been put out of effect, among other things. Because, as some may remember, there was a report from the Reichsaudit which showed that 75%. The property valuations were wrong. Some were too low, and some were too high. We therefore think that, when we are on the steps to create a new assessment system, it makes sense to give them a breathing space for one year after all. It is therefore necessary to include in the discussion that this is one year, because afterwards the same houseowners will have an increase in exactly the same rate of growth until they hit the ceiling. One must also take part in the discussion that when you look at the economic effects of this bill, they turn out to be limited in that the lasting impact of the bill is 75 million. kr. Of course, that may sound like a lot, but in relation to a property valuation tax system, which, as far as I remember, is worth 42 billion. It is perhaps not here that one should inflate oneself to say that it is a huge tax credit to the very richest when it comes to one year and it is a postponement of a tax increase of just one year. With those words, I must say that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165020	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165022	In the Enhedslisten we actually have sympathy for this in helping families who are affected by these rapid increases in the ground blame, and we have also had some suggestions on how to do so. It is a problem when your basic debt payment increases faster than your income. What I, on the other hand, find very difficult to understand is the discrimination in this proposal. This does not, of course, include those who live for rent and those who live in a share, i.e. many of the voters whom I believe, among other things. both Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten have. But what is even worse is that, in the same budget law as this one is part of, you go in and cut the pensioners' housing benefits. So, while you have a great deal of concern for pensioners living in owner-occupied housing, and I think that's very sympathetic, you say to pensioners living in rented or elderly homes: "Haps, you have to pay by box one; we're gonna take hundreds of millions out of your pockets by 2020. What does that mean? How can the Danish People's Party contribute to a financial law which, on the one hand, cares about pensioners living in owner-occupied housing, but, on the other hand, sends the bill to old-age pensioners and early retirement pensioners living in rented housing or old-age housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165136	I would like to start by saying that it is true that there is the distinction in this, that it is the owner-occupied dwellings, that is, those that are assessed according to the valuation law for unequal years, and not the other dwellings, such as rental property and cooperative housing, that will be part of this. It has simply been introduced for economic reasons, but also because of a desire from Conservatives that it was there, the demarcation should be there. I think you can rightly question that if you live in a cohabitation. With regard to the second part, I do not think that you can necessarily make the comparison that is made. It is firstly because it is now deferred with the housing allowance, and secondly because it is a question of paying a tax of a value, that is to say money, which you do not necessarily have in your pocket and can buy food or flying suit for, as someone else asks. The second, therefore, is a subsidy granted by the State to help you stay in your home. So I think that these are two different things. But I also share Mr. Pelle Dragsted the concern for the pensioners. Furthermore, the Danish People's Party also supported the Enhedslisten's proposal before the elections, which was just trying to extend the scheme so that it could be ensured that pensioners or people, for example. If they ever came, they could stay in their homes. This could perhaps be looked at again, because it was at least a positive proposal for which I would like to commend the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165251	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165254	Well, thank you. I don't quite get it. Whether it is a pensioner who is affected by the cuts that may well be postponed, but who is still away part of the Finance Act... they just have to be implemented later and lose a number of crowns a month, or whether it is a matter of losing a number of crowns because you have a owner's residence and have to pay more in tax for the reason you live on, then it is the same for the pensioner. It means a deterioration in living conditions and, in the worst case, that you cannot stay in your home. That is why I simply still cannot understand how the Danish People's Party has been able to contribute to a financial law that has created the uncertainty for so many old-age pensioners and early retirement pensioners about their financial situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165341	Now this proposal is not about housing benefits, but what was on the table was that, as far as I remember, 93,000 households should have up to DKK 1,200. More so, and the reason why it was postponed was precisely that the conditions laid down in that bill were not compatible with what had been agreed at the negotiating table. All the parties behind the Finance Act agreed with that, and that was why it was rejected. So the aim was, of course, that pensioners who had the least should actually have more housing benefits, and not, as the questioner so insinuates, that it should be halfway a massacre where a great deal of money was taken from them. In relation to what is at stake, namely the root cause, there is, of course, a big difference in terms of the amount involved. It was perhaps $20,000, $30,000 or $40,000, you could go up in the ground a year somewhere, and that is quite a lot of money, which at any rate means that you might rightly say that you are being squeezed out of your home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165429	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165431	Now people who live for rent are also paying their dues. And now we have a proposal here that does not freeze the ground blame for the 544,000 general housing and the over 200,000 cohabitants and approx. 200,000 private homes. This means that there are approx. One million homes which have the prospect of being exposed to an increase in the ground debt, and this may well relate to some of the people who have the least funds, and they are so exposed to it. The conciliation parties have not included the rental houses in the overall agreement, so it is people who live for rent and who may have the least money to be exposed to increases in the total amount. I think it is somewhat disappointing, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think it is unreasonable to have a proposal here which would put the tenants in a worse position than those who live in owner-occupied housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165533	Now, of course, this is part of a comprehensive financial package and, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, this was a demand from the Conservative People's Party, which, among other things, was. Wanted this boundary. And then it has to be said in all honesty that this was on the basis of economic considerations, because there were limited funds in the financial law agreement to be able to distribute gifts or to do what the parties now wanted. That is why, according to the assessment, it was decided to make the distinction to the law, whereby the owner-occupied dwellings were valued in unequal years, which is, after all, parcel houses and terraced houses and condos, but it is true, as the questioner says, that rental property and cohabitation property are not included in it. But I would also like to say that it is not the case that they are rising completely unhindered, because they are, of course, still covered by the limitation of growth which is laid down in the legislation today. So it is not the case that they can rise by 15 or 20 per cent. 1 year. I can do the next round, if it is, because I think I have spent my speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165626	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165629	Well, according to an answer given to me by the Treasury, this concerns a total of 225 million for those who live in rentals and cooperative homes. kr. before retreating. After all, this is a nice amount, and I think it is worth seeing this in the context of the fact that, when there may also be pensioners who lose their housing insurance, this could be really wrong overall for some sections of the population. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that this could be particularly damaging to certain groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165704	Yes, but I would also like to question the logic, because I can understand on the Enhedslisten that they are opposed to a freeze for owner-occupied dwellings, but they want it for the other part anyway, or do they want it for both? As I understand it, the Enhedslisten can, of course, argue for it on the platform. You don't think there should be a freeze for anyone, and that means that those who are said to be going very hard on it, i.e. pensioners in the rental houses, will get the increase, because I assume that Enhedslisten will vote no to this no matter what. Or would they consider voting 'yes' if they also froze it for the rental homes? In any case, I have not understood Enhedslisten's point of view in this regard, so it is such a slightly contradictory view that one criticises freezing it for the owner-occupied dwellings, but one would like to do so for the other half, or how is it related?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165750	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments now, and we thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165800	The debate on the debt of land has filled a great deal in recent years, and this is because some homeowners have come into financial difficulties because of increases in the debt of land. In some areas there has been a considerable increase in the land-use base, which has had consequences for the land-owners. We have heard about how people have got into financial difficulties, and it is, of course, hard when people are being pressured financially in this way. Therefore, as part of the Finance Act agreement, the government has concluded an agreement to freeze the ground debt for owner-occupied housing in 2016, and this is the case we are dealing with firsthand today. In the Left, we understand the problems caused by the rise in the basic debt. For us, it is important that there is security for the Danes. At the same time, in the Left, we have the general view that there are no taxes that are too low. This is among other things. because of the approach that we have reached this agreement that makes the tax burden for a number of people easier. Finally, I would like to mention that, at a more general level, the government is trying to create a better and more efficient property tax system than what we have today. The property valuations in particular have had major problems. The government will therefore soon call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on a new property assessment system. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119165923	Thank you. I therefore agree that there are reasons why some of the people who have been affected by a very rapid increase in the ground blame are concerned. At the same time, I just have to say that it sounds hollow to my ears when this bill is part of a Finance Act, in which the government led by the Left has introduced a cash aid ceiling, which hits 30,000 unemployed Danes, and which according to the Danish Housing Association makes it difficult for up to 13,000-14,000 people to stay in their homes. We are talking about hundreds, perhaps thousands of families, who will be evicted from their homes as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits. Where is the concern for the children who experience the bailiff standing outside and knocking? Is it less intrusive for the children of the unemployed to have to relocate their homes than for families whose basic debt is concerned? No, of course not. What is the difference, I would like to ask the rapporteur. Why are people worried about the people who are hit by the culprit, but not about the people who your own policy throws out of their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170032	Of course, it is a reason, not a ceiling on cash benefits, that we are dealing with here today, but I can say that our objective in providing a greater incentive to work is for more people to get to work. The best way to break the social legacy is to get a job. The intention is, of course, that parents should get a job and have a greater incentive to get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170052	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170054	How many people are now expected to get a job out of the 30,000 people who are undermining the conditions and out of the 14,000 people who cannot afford to pay their rent? It's 650 people. That's the win. That's what the government gets out of this. I believe that the people who are watching here can well see that something is not at all connected when you are so extremely concerned about people in owner-occupied housing who are suffering from increasing ground debt, but simply cannot show the same concern for those who lose even greater amounts as a result of the government's own deterioration for the Danes affected by unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170133	Now it is not the ceiling on cash benefits that we are discussing here, but I can tell you that what is important for the Left is that people get a job. If you look at what the reasons have been for people to have been evicted from their homes, you see that it is usually that they find it difficult to manage their finances. The report I remember from the last time, when we had government power, about why tenants are put out of their homes, showed that most of the tenants who are put out of their homes are employees. The reason they are put out is because they cannot control their economy. What we set in motion was a major housing social effort, an economic advice to help people move on and on. The way we're supposed to help people is by helping them to take care of themselves. That's the whole basic idea. People must be helped to fend for themselves, they must have a job, they must be in their homes and move on, but now that is not actually what we are discussing with this bill today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170222	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that's Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170239	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that there are families in Denmark who are challenged by the increasing cause. There are groups of low-paid people who are early-retirers and others who are in the situation that their payment to the ground has increased faster than their income. That is why, in the past, we have proposed that the scheme for pensioners should include some of the groups of, among others, groups of people who can freeze their basic debt payments until the day they realise their value and sell their house. low-paid people who are in this situation. But that is not the model chosen. Instead, we have chosen the most socially biased and discriminatory model we could possibly invent. Firstly, the freeze applies only to owner-occupied dwellings, as we have already heard, so the hundreds of thousands of Danes who live for rent and in co-habitation, which are also affected by increasing ground damage, are not helped. Why? We cannot get an answer to that. It seems that it is just a matter of taking account of certain groups of voters. At any rate, I look forward to hearing an explanation from some of the rapporteurs as to why these groups should be exempted. But also within the group of homeowners, the social imbalance is extreme. A home owner living in a villa of 7.5 million. kr., releases 3,000 kr. cheaper in taxes, while a poorer homeowner who lives in a more humble accommodation for example. 700,000 kroner, can look forward to 130 kroner. more a year. 30% As far as I can calculate quickly, the cost goes to the 10% of the cost of living in the most expensive dwellings. If we look at the list of where you get the most out of it, you can see that there are municipalities such as Gentofte, Rudersdal, Lyngby-Taarbæk, which are at the top. That is where the really big tax cuts fall. And at the bottom we can typically see outskirts municipalities: Lemvig, Morsø, Struer etc. In short, this is what you might call pure class politics in the old days: the more you have, the more you get, and if you live for rent or in a cohabitation, you get nothing at all. It's kind of the content of this proposal cut to the bone. But it gets even worse, because this law is part of a financial agreement which is turning the heavy end downwards; which reduces the conditions for pensioners, for the unemployed, for students. And I just have to say that it is strange to see rapporteurs from the right standing up here expressing this great concern for the homeowners who are financially squeezed for the increasing ground debt, while the same Finance Act has cut deeply into the housing benefits of pensioners and pensioners. I mean, what's it like? Perhaps it is even stranger to hear that one is concerned that homeowners have to move out of their homes because of the ground debt.I think that is a relevant concern... when the same parties have introduced a cash relief ceiling that is likely to force hundreds, perhaps thousands of families out of their homes. In other words, do you think on the right that it is less intrusive for an unemployed person in a rental house or a pensioner in an elderly home to be forced out of his home? Do the children of the 30,000 who are hit by the ceiling of cash benefits and who will be put out of their homes, not the same care, the same concern? Apparently not for the parties behind the Finance Act, which will probably remain one of the most antisocial, inequality-creating and cynical in recent Danish history. For Enhedslisten, this temporary freezing of land is not a solution to the major problems we have with our housing tax. For what is going to happen, and that is also on page 4 of the comments on the proposal, is that a freeze on the ground is simply translated into rising housing prices. It has not been so much advanced here, but new homeowners will just find that they pay more in debt repayments and a little less in debt. It's just throwing gas on a fire. What is needed is to slow down the rapid development of property prices, and much more tangible action must be taken if this is to happen. It is about regulating the financial sector; it is about taking action against the forms of loans that have helped the real estate market to explode; it is about building more non-profit housing. The other thing here is to excuse me peeing in my pants to keep warm. This will not lead to people getting lower costs. As soon as the property changes owner, we will find ourselves in a situation where the relief of the tax is translated into rising property prices. Then the cost for those in the home will be exactly the same. More far-reaching solutions are needed. At any rate, there is no need for an expensive solution which will turn the heavy end downwards, as this proposal expresses, and that is why we cannot support the proposal in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170740	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and this is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119170751	The root cause has been an easy way for municipalities to increase their consumption without at the same time rationalising it. When ordinary citizens, both older and younger, are taxed by their homes, they are hit in an area where it is difficult to change behaviour. You don't just sell your house if you have work nearby and if your kids go to school there. Almost even worse, it has been for older citizens who have paid out their house but who may be squeezed out due to the rise of the blame. The reason for this is unreasonable in that it overtaxes a certain type of dwelling in certain areas far beyond what other citizens of other types of dwelling have to pay. It does not make much sense for citizens living in an expensive condo to be taxed less than a citizen living in a small house with the same purchase value as the apartment. Why should the citizen who prioritises lawn rather than view, for example, be taxed so much harder? In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that it was an important act to freeze the land on ownership housing in 2016 as part of the Finance Act, which means that the landowners have to pay the same or less as the previous year in the ground debt in kroner and penny. We have not finished discussing the taxation of housing and buildings. In a country with huge public spending and a large proportion of the population on public support, there is constant pressure to increase taxation and find new forms of taxation. We in the Liberal Alliance want to counteract this. We want taxation to be more balanced so that those who go to work do not have to bear excessive burdens, and we want there to be equality in the way different forms of housing are taxed when the same value is attached to housing. Finally, we are concerned that the systems we make do not become bureaucratic. An important part of a fair and transparent tax system is that citizens are able to see it through. That is why we are already very concerned about the IT monster that the Treasury is preparing to regulate property taxation. We want a one-tier and more reasonable system, and it is our hope that instead of just following the footsteps of the officials, the government will put the bar higher and start a real debate on how the taxation of housing can look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171000	I say thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171006	I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the result of this freeze for new homeowners is that they will be faced with the same total cost, as shown by the comments on page 4, which states that the freezing of land dues is expected to be largely capitalised at land and property prices, i.e. rising land and property prices, especially in and around the larger cities. Further down is the fact that, in isolation, new homeowners benefit from the lower ground debt, but this is offset by the fact that they have to pay more and possibly take up more debt to buy the property in question. In other words, when you lower current taxes on property as you do here, the result is simply that it translates into higher property prices and that this concern that citizens cannot afford to pay for their homes may become a little more symbolic than anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171059	It is an assessment, but the fact is that people who sit in a house pay a higher tax than people who have a different type of housing that has the same value. We think this is totally unfair, and that is why we have criticised the root cause quite a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171117	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171119	I therefore agree that there are some injustices overall in the taxation of housing, and I also think that we should look together at the taxation of housing, so we cannot disagree on that. It's more just this fact that I think is important to get into the discussion: what unfortunately happens by the way our housing financing and our housing market is arranged is that when we lower the current taxes on housing, we help those who have to sell housing, because they can get a higher price. However, those who are going to enter the housing market, i.e. typically young people, have no relief, because what they save in housing tax they pay in increased instalments of their debts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171156	Now it's a big deal to call this a tax reduction. It is a freezing of the land which has exploded in certain areas for certain types of housing. It is unreasonable that public consumption, which is constantly moving outwards and constantly moving towards the border, should particularly affect a certain type of citizen in certain areas of a particular type of dwelling. We do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171220	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171230	In the alternative, we think that the root cause is one of several important parameters in our welfare society, where we are able to distribute the benefits quite well. That is why we also find it a pity that we are able to twist something like the root cause of something that is actually being unfair, an otherwise very, very fair tax. That is why we are also opposed to the adoption of this bill. This is primarily because there would actually be all sorts of good reasons not to freeze anything, not to talk about tax freezes in general in Denmark, because just when it is a distribution tool, it seems silly to me, I would say it does seem a little silly to me that what you have to distribute is cut off. So you cut off the arms with which to distribute and close your eyes to the tools that can respond to things that happen in society, tools that are necessary. That is what you choose to freeze, that is to say to do useless, and we see that here too. The things we face in society we cannot really react to when we try to tell the people in this way that we are now doing what they want. The economic impact may be questionable, which is why I also have great respect for it when the Danish People's Party, for example, says that it may not necessarily be their cardinal point in the financial law agreement, but that it took and gave. We have been through a long debate earlier in the day, when we also heard in the alternative that some people were a little unaware of why we had taken something and given something. Anyway, it's something to set a direction. So I think it's quite fair to vote for this if you think it's part of a bigger picture where you've got something else. There we just have to say from the point of view of the Alternative that this freezing and stopping anything in our tax system seems to us to be a pity symbolic policy. There are several of the consultation answers that also say that there was nothing other than something technical that did not make it possible to bring the rentals. So this whole thing about how we're gonna only give this relief to those who live in owner's residence, just fuck things up even more. Then I should remember to say from the SF rapporteur that they are also opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171447	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to the radical rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171455	Thank you. There are many reasons why the Radical Left is opposed to this bill and, in general, to the agreement that has been reached in this area. Firstly, it only serves a small part of the Danish population. Secondly, it does not do anything good for the housing market. Thirdly, it does not provide a lasting solution to the challenge faced by the homeowners who really face the challenges of the debt, because it is a temporary arrangement and there is no lasting solution or funding in it. So, overall, we have to say that we think it's a piece of work. It can be said that where tax relief is really needed, it is on incomes. That is where we could create some growth. That is where we could really make a difference, both for a lot of citizens in this country and for companies. So it's going to be a "no" vote from the radical side. Everyone knows what we'd prefer. The lasting solution to this is that we give the homeowners the assurance that both land and property value tax increases with the price trend in society, neither more nor less, so that when you buy the house, it is the same proportion of your income that goes to housing taxation, no more or less. Imagine if we could have a broad settlement on that, if I may say so, the agreement on which all parties gave each other a hand. Then we would certainly do the Danish homeowners a really great service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171634	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171638	This was just due to the last of the speech here, i.e. the proposal by the Radicals for a new arrangement on the taxation of housing. I think this is a very interesting proposal, and I thought so when you brought it in. But it is clear that if you only tax a price index, there will of course be a much greater profit from the increase in the value of the property, from the sale of the dwelling and from which you have not been taxed in the meantime. So how do Radicals view a combination with the solution that you are proposing here and that I think there is reason for, precisely because no one is experiencing a huge increase in current housing taxes while at the same time not having the same increase in income? That's the problem in this discussion. At the same time, however, I do not think it is fair that, overall, living in a dwelling for a number of years, not only because of improvements, but because of an increase in value, can go out with a tax-free gain. So how does the Radical Left view the fact that, as one does in Sweden, as far as I am aware, one is taxing the gain that has not come from housing improvements when the owner realizes it, that is to say, moving from his home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171744	It is our view that if you pay a fair, running property value tax and land tax, you should not pay on top of that when you sell the house, because you have paid, if I may say so, in advance. The system that one has in Sweden is precisely that one pays when selling one's house, minus some different craftsman's efforts that one might have had. But then you do not pay a property value tax on an ongoing basis. So that's where I think you're gonna have to pick one or the other. It is a long discussion, which of the two taxation systems is most fair, but I think that most economists agree that what gives the least distortion and the greatest transparency in the housing market is the Danish model because it pays on a regular basis. And that also gives the most stable tax revenue, so that is probably what we are leaning towards. And then we also think that people have paid their taxes when they sell their house.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171834	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171836	But it could be that some of the parties in this Chamber who are not completely frightened when it comes to talking about changes in housing taxation should try to get together. Perhaps we will be some when the other parties throw off their fears and are ready to look at this housing tax that had looked at some proposals. So it should just be a call for that discussion not to stop, but to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171900	I think I can promise you, sir. Pelle Dragsted, that discussion doesn't stop. And it does not, of course, because it currently costs the Treasury 4 billion. kr. extra, for every year that goes, where we don't get anything done about this, and we can't afford that in the long run. So I'd like to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171914	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further with the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119171921	It is an excellent proposal that the government is now presenting to the Danish Parliament. It is not least on the basis of the hundreds of thousands of Danish families sitting in their homes with pain in their stomachs sitting out in the garden watching the children playing football while wondering if they can now stay in their homes • because the housing taxes are experiencing a sky flight. Fortunately, in the then VK government, the property value tax was frozen. Unfortunately, we did not solve the problem of the ground debt, so it was allowed to rise by 6-7 per cent. per year, depending on different indicators. This has meant that many ordinary families experience that property taxes together represent a very important part of their expenses • while they have already paid a great many taxes through ordinary income tax, ordinary consumer taxes etc. And that means sitting with your children at home wondering if you can stay in that house in the area where the children go to school and where you intend to stay for a few years. That's one part of it. The second part concerns those who have deliberately chosen to say that they will live there and eat the expenses that are in the process of staying and intend to stay until they cannot really stay there any longer, that is to say pensioners who have been looking forward to, having worked and worked and dragged out on the labour market for many years, staying in their homes where they have heard at home, where they have lived for many years. They're experiencing an explosion and a huge surprise. Very many elderly people and pensioners find that they cannot finance just the taxes by living in the housing they live in, just the taxes in the housing they live in! And there is no point in saying that you can eat the bricks when you have picked up a prize that you haven't realized yet, because you stay in the home you live in. In this case, these are quite ordinary housing, which is why it is interesting, as I also asked the Socialist rapporteur, to look at where it is that you pay most of your income in real estate taxes. Where is it you pay the biggest part? It is not at Frederiksberg or in Gentofte that the people who love the property tax love to harcelate over. No, it's in the surrounding municipalities. It is also in Copenhagen, in parts of Copenhagen, that you pay the vast majority of your income in property taxes. This applies to ordinary families. It's in Aarhus, it's in the Vejle area. It is ordinary people who experience that, after they have paid their taxes and taxes, they are going to pay double up just because they have chosen to live in their own homes. So it is two thirds of the Danish families who have chosen to do so. It is two thirds who are experiencing rising property taxes. It is clear that it should be a principle in the Danish Parliament to ensure that you can stay in your own home with your family when you have children, and when you get older, that is, as a pensioner, without being able to be thrown out of house and home, simply because you have chosen to live in a owner's residence and not in another type of accommodation. Because it is the owners who are being taxed on fire with the increasing ground. That is why the Conservative People's Party is enthusiastic about this proposal. We hope that it is the beginning of some new agreements that will ensure that you as a family can have peace and security in your home, even when we have to deal with the new property assessment system, so that we ensure that it is not just about brand taxing the homeowners, but also about securing some fairness, something reasonable in it, that is, getting some attention to the fact that for ordinary families the most important investment in their lives is of course their home and not an investment as an investment asset, as when you invest in a stock, but as an investment in your future, in your security, in the dignity of being able to offer your family a place to live, where you risk not being thrown out, because you cannot afford to pay the taxes and taxes that are there. And it's not even the rent you can't pay, because you can pay for it if you've taken a loan and been rated for it. No, it's the rising taxes you can't pay. That is why it is a great yes from the Conservative People's Party to the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172356	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172359	First of all, I think there's a little fake marketing in this. Because, as I mentioned earlier, the draft law shows that a lower tax translates into a higher housing price and thus also higher debt repayments. So it will make no difference to the families that the rapporteur is talking about in future will move into an owner's residence. These employees' families in the region of or in Copenhagen will have to pay the same share of their income because, according to the comments to the bill, these reductions will be capitalised into property prices. I just think that's part of this story. That seems to me to have been far too little discussed in this debate. Having said that, I think, secondly, that this sitting with your children and being worried and that calm and secure in your stomach is really noble, and that's also one of the reasons why I'm worried about this reason. I just can't understand how the Conservative People's Party doesn't have the same concern for the 30,000 families now affected by the cash aid ceiling, which loses much larger amounts per month and will be put out of their homes by hundreds or perhaps by thousands, because they can't pay their rent. Don't they have the right to be calm and secure in their stomachs? Where is the care? I'd like to ask Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172509	I understand that indignation, because the most important thing for a family is its home. You know, you have your frame, your family, and then you have to fight for your family. But having root somewhere and foundation is the most important thing, and that is whether you are a cash recipient or a homeowner. So, of course, it is essential that you fight to stay in your home no matter where you live. The insecurity and unrest that lie in it are simply the seeds of all sorts of frustrations. So I consider the home to be the most important bastion for the family in Denmark, no matter where you are. What we're talking about now is the reason. And it really is the case that in many families you sit today and judge whether you can stay in your home, not because you have taken a loan in your house, but because the debt is increasing year after year. If you are unlucky to live in a municipality where the ground debt increases a lot, then you cannot stay there with your children. If you're unlucky, for example. If you live in Ballerup, where the ground debt seizes a very large proportion of the employees' income, you have to consider whether you can stay in Ballerup where I was born and raised myself. And that is why it is terrible to see that as a child family you can be forced to move from Ballerup because the root cause increases year after year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172623	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172625	Well, I fully share that concern, as the rapporteur knows, and that is also why we in the Enhedslist have put forward a number of proposals in this area. What I just do not understand is how the rapporteur's party can help to reduce the housing support for some of the families in Denmark who have the least. The National Association of Housing Companies has been out to say that there will be around 14,000 of the people affected, who will have major problems in paying their rent because they lose thousands of kroner from one month to the next. Well, I'm just as worried about the concern that's out there and about what they are. Why is there this discrimination? Why can we not relate to people as people and not as owners or tenants of a dwelling or as unemployed or as people in work? They're all people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172717	We need to pay attention to the speaking time. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172720	I kind of agree with that one hundred percent. Now it's just the reason we're talking about here. After all, it is a proposal on the ground that we want to ensure the calm and security in the stomach of children's families, for the elderly and for people who have chosen not to invest in their house or apartment as an investment asset, but as a place where you can be with your family. That's who I'm talking about. Then we can take the discussion about the cash benefits ceiling and the housing benefits at another time. After all, it has all sorts of different terms and all sorts of other principles in it, which should also be of great interest to Enhedslisten, for example. that it must always pay to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172756	Then it's mr. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172759	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I have great respect for the fact that a legislative proposal should not contain all facets of a party's policy. And that is why it is quite okay that the social policy of the Conservatives is not involved in it. What I might be asking for is the good sales description, which Mr. Pelle Dragsted is calling. Two Jutland cities, Århus and Vejle, are referred to as almost a counterpart to Copenhagen towns, and I would like to say that for us who are from Jutland, Århus and Vejle are reasonably lucrative areas to live in. So it may not be a definite counter-pole, and it really only supports my question. Because isn't it right that you could have chosen to make a law that helped the families in Denmark who have the ground blame in a different way than this? I think it is quite legitimate that a law has been drawn up that helps some others, and then there may be other places in the Conservative Party programme where there is something different for those at risk. Is it not true that this law is not aimed at helping the socially disadvantaged in Denmark to pay a debt of land, and that this primarily benefits some others?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172903	Now I can only speak for the Conservative People's Party, but for us it is a principle that no matter where you live in Denmark, you should not pay more in property taxes. And then you could have made the cut differently, that is, if you wanted to target it for some different areas. But for us, it has been about saying to all Danish families who live in owner's residence: you get the calm and security of knowing that in crowns and ears the reason is not going to rise, and that is, no matter where you live in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172942	Then it's mr. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119172946	That will be a very brief comment. I think it is quite legitimate that this should happen. But then I think that perhaps one should not talk so much about the very families that turn and turn every crown and want to have security. Because that's moving out of a owner's residence in Ballerup. It's not moving from house to home. So I would like that comparison to come out of the picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173008	Now I hope no one will have to leave Ballerup, which is an amazing municipality where I have lived and went to school myself. But if you are forced to move from a place where you are happy to live with your children who go to school in that area, etc., then I think that is worrying. I do not think we as legislators should agree to that. We have to make sure they can stay. I do not think the problem is big right now, but it will be a problem because there will be an accumulation on top of it if you do not stop the increase in the ground blame. Then, in a few years' time, for some families, you sit in certain places in Denmark wondering if you can stay. I find this unfortunate and regrettable, and we as legislators must help to ensure that people can live anywhere in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173048	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173053	It's just very short. First of all, I should like to say that the rapporteur is not wrong in that he says that the root cause has also increased greatly in Rødovre and Ballerup and in all sorts of other places. But I also think it is worth mentioning what three municipalities are going to make the most of this freezing of land, and that is in Lyngby-Taarbæk, Rudersdal and Gentofte, where people will experience the greatest savings on the ground. I should not overlook the fact that there may also be some who sit and have a tight economy, but nevertheless they live on some of the postal numbers where you have the highest household income in this country. What I really want to ask is: does the rapporteur recognise that, as the Ministry also writes in the comments on the draft law, there is a huge problem that when you choose to freeze the ground debt in this way, as you do in the agreement that has been reached, you simply push the problem ahead of you or somewhere else, namely to all the people who are going to enter the housing market? The capitalisation of this debt will therefore only be reflected in higher housing prices and thus larger loans, for which other people are allowed to pay more interest and higher repayment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173203	No, I don't, and I don't understand why the Treasury writes it. Now it is not mentioned as explicitly as it is mentioned here, but I think there are some officials in the Treasury who, of course, have the classic social democratic attitude that housing taxes are a good thing. But that should not be a classic socialist attitude. In other words, a classic social democratic attitude should be that you as a family should be able to stay in your home. That is why I believe that social democracy is an honorable party, because they have fought for employees, and here we must fight for employees so that they can stay in their homes. With regard to the second, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned, I would say that housing prices are determined by a lot of different parameters and components, very, very many. One of them, of course, is a net benefit. So, what do you pay net, and in the net benefit there are of course also some property taxes. It's a parameter. Then there are all sorts of other parameters: location parameter, school parameter and everything else. But what matters to a family where they live is the operating costs that exist and, unfortunately, property taxes represent an ever-increasing proportion of employees' incomes, and this is also surprising in the new figures. So it is not a falling part, but an increasing part, and that is what we want to stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173318	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173321	Thank you. I find it interesting that the rapporteur disagrees with the Ministry of Taxation in assessing that freezing the land on the long track would lead to higher property prices. After all, the rapporteur has made his position clear, so you have to ask the tax minister about that afterwards. However, the rapporteur is right to say that it is an honourable socialist attitude that people should be able to stay in their homes. This is also one of the reasons why we are opposed to the ceiling on cash aid, and that is one of the reasons why we are against other parts of the policy of the government and the support parties, among others. to raise the housing benefits. But what we also believe is that there must be some reasonableness in it. When the value of some homes increases a lot, you also have to pay tax on that increase in value. We then do so in a consensual way in Denmark in the form of the increase in the basic guilt that we have had. This could be done in other and smarter ways, it also has its challenges, but nevertheless it is reasonable also an honorable social democratic attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173428	In other words, the most reasonable thing from our point of view is that you will not be burdened with taxation by living in your own home. In the real, real world, you wouldn't tax people living in their homes. Then all sorts of other resources would be taxed. We would not then tax people living in their homes, because it should be a fundamental principle in a society governed by the law that people could just stay in their homes. But now it is almost so much part of our national economy that we cannot do away with it overnight. What we can do is to ensure calm and security by at least not increasing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173504	The next question is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173508	The reason I am taking the floor is, of course, the discussion that this could place itself in housing prices. It is true that if housing taxes were to be abolished altogether, this would probably mean that houses would be correspondingly more expensive, but can the rapporteur not just confirm that this is a matter of a lasting effect of 75 million? I assume that this is what has then been capitalised into housing prices and if you take 75 million. kr. and distributes an increase in the price of all households in Denmark, which is more than one million households, the rapporteur then believes that it will be something that will be felt for young people or other people to enter the housing market if it is a matter of 75 million. kr., which then has to be moved to housing prices across the country. I am actually asking the most because I doubt that it has a particularly great effect, even if that is what you are trying to say from the other authors.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173554	As I said, housing prices are not an exact science, and therefore it is a relevant question that the questioner raises. Housing prices depend on, I think, a hundred different parameters. I cannot list a hundred different things, but they are very many different parameters, and of course housing taxes mean something in this context. I do not see the comment now as if the officials in the Ministry of Taxation say it is a crucial one, but let them do so, and they themselves must be held responsible for it, for which they should not be allowed to interfere. But of course it matters. Everything matters, but this context, that is to say, freezing the ground debt in 2016, I doubt it has any decisive impact on housing prices in Danish society. I would say that I agree entirely with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173634	We thank the rapporteur and I give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119173642	Thank you. Thank you for one, you might say, passionate debate here in Parliament on the proposal. After all, housing taxes are something that everyone has an opinion on, and the various speeches that have been made by the parties today also bear witness to, and this may not come as a great surprise to those present and those who may listen. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to say a little about the Finance Act, and what I am saying may not be a surprise either, because in my view, the government, together with the parties behind the Finance Act, has, overall, made a really good financial law for 2016 within the financial framework that is now available. The partial agreement to freeze the land debt for owner-occupied housing in 2016 simply means, as the debate has, I hope, shown, that in 2016 the property owners will pay the same in kroner and penny as in 2015. In general terms, it is my position in principle that the money is best in the pockets of the citizens. That said, it's hardly a secret, and I think you might feel that too. Brian Mikkelsen's statement that freezing the ground debt has been and is a matter of particular concern to the Conservatives and is a desire for financial law negotiations. It has been fulfilled, and I am quite happy about that, both on behalf of the landowners, but also on behalf of the government and the Conservative People's Party. My primary ambition as tax minister is that it should be worthwhile to work and that it should be easier and cheaper to be a Dane. And hopefully in the autumn we will be able to take a step in this direction by reducing the tax on labour and thereby also increasing the supply of labour. But it will obviously require that you can find support for it in the Folketing and that the money votes. Economic policy must be responsible. Not surprisingly, in today's debate, some people drew attention to the fact that tenants and shareholders are not included in the proposal here, but that this is the case with people with an owner's residence. And it is a legitimate point, a criticism, whether you want to raise in relation to the proposal, and to that I would say, and there are also several of the rapporteurs of the parties who support the proposal, who have responded to the fact that what is here is what has been agreed within the financial framework that we had at our disposal. And that is something that I can at least stand up for on behalf of the government. In fact, this freezing of the ground debt follows the demarcation laid down in the valuation law. And there's a difference between owner's homes, cooperative homes and rentals. In addition, I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the freezing of the land debt applies to homeowners throughout the country, including homeowners in rural areas. One might well get the impression from the debate that has been here today that this is only something that benefits people in some selected capital municipalities, and that is not true. However, it is clear that such a freeze is most important in relative terms for those homeowners who would otherwise have had the biggest increases in 2016 if they had not cancelled the increases. And that is sometimes the consequence when an increase in the ground debt, which is usually limited by a maximum increase of 7%, hits differently across the country. On the other hand, the freeze will obviously have less impact on homeowners in the municipalities which, on average, face minor increases in the land debt than in the rest of the country. And that may well be a problem, but it is no different than, for example, if you do. It will change, let us say, the top tax, because it does not affect equally in all municipalities; it will be of the greatest importance in the municipalities where the average income is highest. That's the way it is, and I don't think that's new to anyone. If I have to sum up, I would say that with the proposal we are helping the homeowners who are otherwise facing an increase in the basic debt payment, regardless of where the dwelling is located and whether the owner is an engineer, a primary school teacher or a pensioner. If I have to deal with one of the specific questions that were raised here, I would say that this with which municipalities benefit from it can be determined in many different ways. There are many Members of Parliament who have asked questions about this, and of course you get answers as you ask. I think it was sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who referred to one of the answers and tried to illustrate that this is only about conservative strongholds, which get great relief. And if you go a little further into the answer to one of the committee questions that has been asked and which I will just find here, I would say that it is true that, where the consequences are greatest on average in relation to one-family houses, are in Lyngby-Taarbæk, Rudersdal and Gentofte, but the next on the list are Hvidovre, Hørsholm, Ballerup, Rødovre, Helsingør, Albertslund, Gladsaxe, Herlev. So I don't think it can be clearly pointed out that it's municipalities with a particular party color, but it's a problem that's the biggest problem in the larger cities... there's also a number of Jutlandic municipalities on this list of places where you get the greatest benefit from this helping hand. It is distributed throughout the country, but it naturally hits where otherwise there would have been the biggest increase. That says itself and, as I understand it, it has also been a wish of those parties which, as I have said, have wanted it in the financial law negotiations. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am answering questions here today, otherwise it is something that we will probably also be discussing at both the second and third readings of the proposal. Thank you for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174308	Thank you. There are requests for a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174317	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say thank you, perhaps even many thanks, because it is the voters of the vast majority in which I am elected, namely the Copenhagen Grand Circle, who have been hit by severe basic debt payments. This gives them a breathing space, and I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174333	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174335	Well, I'll have to sign for that. I'm always fond of praise. It will not be less if it is from members of my own party. I am not petty in that way as far as praise is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174348	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174355	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for making it clear that these are also other municipalities. I was actually aware of that. In fact, that was what the Conservative rapporteur had already spent his energy on, namely to say that it was primarily people who lived in Rødovre, Hvidovre, etc., as this was the case here, and then I just had to remind you that the top three on the list of municipalities where you will see the biggest gains from freezing the ground debt, that is to say municipalities north of Copenhagen, and where the Conservative rapporteur's party has generally, at least historically, stood strong. Well, that's not what I wanted to ask. I wanted to ask you something which actually also concerns the Conservative rapporteur. He was told, when he was on the platform, that he did not agree with the assessment made by the Treasury on page 4 of the comments to the bill, namely that the freezing of the land debt is expected to be largely capitalised at land and property prices, especially in and around major cities. The lower land tax is in favour of current home owners. In isolation, new homeowners also benefit from lower land taxes, but this is offset by the fact that they have to pay more and possibly take up more debt in order to buy the property in question. Can the Minister just clear up the disagreement that I and the Conservative rapporteur had?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174513	It's not sure I can, but I can try. What the draft law says is such an expression of general economic thinking. Well, I guess, and I heard that too, sir. Brian Mikkelsen mentioned that economics is a science, but not an exact science. It depends on what the conditions are. To some extent there will be a upheaval, but the question is how much. It also depends on what else is happening in the housing market. However, since this is the usual economic thinking, it must, of course, be reflected in the draft law. But there are a number of prerequisites that lie in it, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also mentioned, if you look at the lasting impact of the proposal, it is 75 million, and therefore you can of course discuss with what uncertainty this is estimated here. Whether or not this is what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen satisfied, I should not be able to say, but that is my answer immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174619	It is too early to conclude whether I am satisfied, I think. First of all, I am very pleased that the Minister says so several times today, and I can only agree that economics is not an exact science and that much of it is about politics. I'm just gonna sign for that. Secondly, the reason why this is interesting is that in part of what we are adopting here today there is an expectation, also as I read it, from the Ministry that this will help to fuel even more the rate of increase in property prices, especially around the large cities, where we also know and as the minister is right that there are many different reasons for determining property prices. One of them is, of course, as we also know, that too little is being built, so we can, as I understand the Minister's answer, although it was not quite clear, conclude that yes, freezing the land will inflate further to the rise in real estate prices in and around the large cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174716	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174718	If you look at it in isolation, that is the effect, which is also reflected in the draft law, but it is an isolated consideration. On the other hand, it could happen that the banks are enforcing this 5% requirement that you have to have 5%. for payment, is what is really going to decide. Another parameter could be, for example. be moving to Copenhagen, which means something to housing prices here, where there is not the same migration in 2015 as there have been earlier years, if I am not very wrong. And one last thing - and this is perhaps the most crucial - is the trend in interest rates, which is a little difficult to predict and, incidentally, also political government. So it all depends on what else is happening on the housing market, whether what the rapporteur is asking is actually going to happen, namely that this will be directly passed on to prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174807	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174811	I'd also like to sign for the fact that economics isn't an exact science. Now I hope that they will turn their ears at the Liberal Alliance, and I also hope that the government will remember this before starting to finance tax cuts with dynamic effects and the kind of hocuspocus. No, what I really want to ask is quite fundamental, which I have tried to travel several times. I understand this with a financial framework and so on, as the Minister has said, but what is the reason why, if I live in a owner's residence next year, I will be spared this increase in the ground debt, but that I will not let go if I live in a tenant's home or a co-habitation? If I'm unemployed at the same time, you'll even buy it and take money out of my pocket, so maybe I'll have to leave my home with my kids, take it out of school, move to another place. Well, what's reasonable? Why do people make distinctions like this? Why is it worse for those people who may or may not belong to larger groups of voters who vote on the right that they are forced out of their homes than for other groups of society, for whom it is an equally unpleasant and disastrous experience? I find that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119174922	I must hurry to say that economy is a science. I said it's not an exact science, so that's why you can discuss it, and economists do. And the skilled economists of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury sometimes disagree with the economists of the Economic Council and the National Bank. But you have to listen a bit along the way, I think you do well. So I think you should have that point. But at the end of the day it is often a political choice what you choose to do. And there I say that one can choose to challenge some of the prerequisites and to base other objective political considerations on how to organise our society. And I think it would be wise not only to weigh up economic considerations. If I have to answer the question in this way, it is, of course, about the fact that the taxation of apartments has been reduced quietly over time in percentage terms, because the property value tax is frozen in crowns and ears and the proportion of the basic debt you pay is rather small, compared with a house in which a very large proportion of the tax is a ground debt which is, after all, affected by a reduction in the rate of increase. So there's been an imbalance between the two boforms, and that's why I think it makes sense here in the Finance Act to make this freeze in 2016, which has been a desire of the Conservatives and of the Liberal Alliance. I think that is extremely reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175044	Thank you. In fact, I think that was a real attempt to answer a question we have raised. However, that does not answer, I think, the part about the Finance Act in a context, namely that this Finance Act will threaten a large number of families to such an extent that 14,000 families, according to the Danish Housing Association, will simply not be able to pay their rent and that, when they reach the 1 April and the cash aid ceiling, they will have exactly the turmoil in their stomachs with which we have heard Conservatives and the Left and others talking about the landowners sitting. Why is the concern not the same for the people, for the children as it is for the children living in the parcel house in Ballerup that we have heard about? So, I share that concern, why does the right-wing not share the concern of another group of our citizens who are about to experience this insecurity this spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175138	Thank you. I am also concerned about that group, but it is of course for them to remain on cash aid and not to enter the labour market. The Left Government and the Enhedslisten do not agree on how this happens. But we believe and believe that when it comes to an economic incentive to enter the labour market, you can feel it, that you have to get up and find a job and work instead of being on a public passive service, it is the way forward to make that difference bigger. One of the things you do is that you do it. with the modern ceiling on cash aid, and this is also the case with tax reform, which we hope will come to later this year, in which we do so in such a way that it can be felt what the difference is between being on public support and taking a job. Hopefully this should lead to more people getting a job. For I am certainly concerned about the recipients of cash benefits, but I am concerned that they will not enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175229	We'll thank the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175243	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175310	Thank you for that, President. We are now discussing the first of four motions for resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party. The first motion for a resolution, B 32, intends to require the government to submit before the end of the 2015-16 parliamentary year a draft law amending electoral law in two areas. First of all, the proposal is that people who need help to vote for an election should be able to choose for themselves what help they want. Today, it is the case that all voters who wish to be helped to vote need the help of two people. It must be either two officials, i.e.: electoral rulers or appointed voters or an official and a helper elected by the electorate. With this proposal, the electorate must be able to decide for himself whether or not to participate in the vote when the electorate has chosen to have the help of a personally appointed helper. The second part of the proposal is that special or electronic aids should be made available in the voting box when there is a choice. The point is that it must be easier for people with disabilities to be able to vote without the help of other people, i.e. people with disabilities. officials and personally appointed assistants. Let me start by saying that, from the government's point of view, this is a very good proposal. We will support the substance of the proposal, but I also have to say that it is not completely uncomplicated and that it will therefore not be possible to put forward the legislative proposal in this session in practice. It will be practically possible to put it forward in the next parliamentary year, but I will come back to that. I certainly hope that we will be able to find common ground here in the Folketing, both on the substance of the proposal, but indeed on the implementation of the proposal. Let me start with the first part of the proposal, which deals with helping the vote itself. Today, when a voter needs help to cast his vote, the aid must always be provided, as it is now, by two people. So it must be either two officials or an official and a personally appointed helper. There are arguments in this way that the rules are designed as they are, and it was a very broad majority behind the rules that we have today. The fact that an official is always present counteracts the risk that the electorate will be exposed to undue influence. This will also help to ensure public confidence in our electoral system. However, in the vast majority of cases where a voter has chosen a personal helper, this risk of undue influence will not be present at all. It must be assumed that, in the vast majority of cases, the electorate chooses a person whom he or she trusts to help him, for example. the spouse, a family member or a good friend. The government agrees with the proposer that it may seem intimidating to the individual choose that there must always be an authority person inside the voting box when the voter needs help. Experience with the rules has also shown that a number of voters do not want an official present. Against this background, the Government considers that there are at least equally serious considerations, if not more serious considerations in favour of amending these rules. Therefore, we are prepared to change the rules in such a way that if the electorate indicates directly and unequivocally to an electoral leader or an appointed electorate that the electorate only wants the help of his personally appointed helper, then there should not also be an official. If the electorate cannot make that known, the aid must be provided as it has been so far. This seems to us to be a fair balance of consideration for the freedom of the individual electorate to avoid undue influence on the electorate and also to ensure public confidence in our electoral system. When it comes to the part of the proposal which relates to the provision of special or electronic aids in the voting box, I can only say that this proposal is as though it were taken out of my own mouth, because the government is concerned about how to improve the opportunities for people with disabilities or disability in order to be able to vote on its own behalf. Before the government can put forward such a bill, it is of course important that we also have a dialogue with relevant disability organisations so that together we can find solutions that can actually help those who need it. And it is important that the solutions that we find are practical, but also that they take account of people's confidence in the electoral process itself. So we are looking at what opportunities there are and what experiences have been gained elsewhere. I can say that the officials of the Ministry have already begun this dialogue with the relevant disability organisations. In conclusion, I repeat that this is a good proposal, or two good proposals in one, and we support it. As regards the timing of the legislative proposal, I can reassure you that the next planned elections are, of course, the municipal and regional elections to be held in November 2017. So the changes in the law will be able to come into force well before this election, even though the submission will only take place until the next parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175906	Thank you. There is a single questioner on the list for the time being. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119175912	Thank you to the Minister for supporting this motion for a resolution. It's the first time I've seen it as a member of parliament, so I'm kind of like, "Oh, my God! I'm really happy about that, and thank you for that. Something else is that we will find out all the practical things afterwards, as to how we do and in relation to the negotiations, or what is coming. But I'd like to ask you something. At one point I have received a reply from the Minister saying that what is called DemTech has agreed as part of a project which is studying technologies in connection with this, also to examine whether it is possible to obtain help in voting so that one can vote without any help from electronic aids or other. Does the Minister know how far that work has come and can the Minister perhaps elaborate on the process in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180012	In any case, I can say so much that it is precisely this kind of trust in the electoral system itself, and what is extremely important is that, when you are out trying out this type of aid, you have to be sure, like other voters in this country, that this type of aid also works when you use it and that the electorate is also aware that the vote has been given and that it has been given correctly, as the electorate would like it to be. Yeah, there's a variety of experiments going on, and you try it out. Exactly the timing of how long the experiments are going, I would like to reply in writing afterwards, because I simply cannot do the dates. In addition, however, I am glad that the rapporteur is positively surprised that the government is willing to support this motion for a resolution. This will not be the case in the next proposals, but the situation is that the proposers have actually, so to speak, kicked in an open door. It has been on my wish list for a long time to resolve this, and it is good that the proposers have done so in concrete terms in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180125	We thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180133	With this motion for a resolution, the proposers speak into the reality, which is probably best described by the organisation Danish Handicap Federation and Danish Blind Society. Unfortunately, there has been a dissatisfaction with the form in which disabled people can vote. The stumbling block has been the requirement to reveal what you are voting to wildly strangers when you bring in two conspirators to help with the vote. We can then say so often that the electorate responsible is bound by the obligation of professional secrecy and, moreover, is subject to a high ethical code such as the representatives of the electorate's confidence. If the reality of the situation is that citizens who need help do not feel comfortable with the procedures prescribed, we should, of course, give the procedures a review. I am very pleased that the Minister is expressing his willingness to contribute to this. Surely we all want the citizens to be able to fill their place in the people's regime by taking part in elections and voting. The Social Democratic Party is prepared to support the Minister's efforts to find a set of rules which, I understood, should also be discussed with the organisations of disabled people, and I think that would be very good and very wise. Our only concern is that we must, of course, ensure that voters in need of help are not subjected to pressure from others, even close ones, in an electoral situation, and that is why it is crucial in this situation. As far as technology is concerned, it is developing extremely quickly, and let us finally take it into account when we look at how best to set the rules in order to make the people's regime work the best possible way. We support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180329	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180346	The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for us to amend our electoral laws so that people who have a disability who are unable to go into the voting box themselves and cross the box and therefore need help should be able to decide for themselves in future whether they want to have an election organised with them into the voting box together with a personal helper to whom they have pointed or whether they think it is sufficient that there is a personal helper. As part of the motion for a resolution, there is also a proposal to make available at the polling stations various types of equipment which can make it easier for a disabled person to vote without the help of others. See, if you are disabled it may be that you are blind, and then you cannot see where you put the cross; it may also be that you simply cannot hold on to a pencil and therefore need help from others; then the question is how to ensure that the disabled person gets the help he needs. There has been the view so far that we must make sure that there is no cheating. For example, it may be a blind person who asks his helper to cross one party, and then the helper says he will, but then crosses another party, and the voter never discovers that. That is why we have the rules that we have. But the disadvantage of them is that the disabled person is then forced to reveal to a wild stranger who he intends to vote for. After all, it feels untenable that the authorities are not counting on the electorate to be able to point out a helper to support him. It is also such a mistrust of the helper that the electorate has pointed out when you say that it is not enough for you to go into the voting box; there is therefore also a need for someone from the municipality to see that things are going well now. We believe that the time is ripe for us to leave it to the electorate to decide whether we trust enough of the personal help that we have with them to ensure that it is enough for the personal helper to go into the voting box without following one of the voters into the box as well. This, of course, requires us to be able to state clearly and clearly that this is what we want, but the vast majority of us will be. The second part of the motion for a resolution on the introduction of various types of aids is that we in the Left are ready to look at how to do it. There are already opportunities that can help people. That is, for example, the case. the fact that you can read Braille through the ballot. There may also be different IT solutions. Of course, it is important that the solutions that we end up with are some that we trust. So the Left supports the resolution, and personally I think it is very good too. I myself have stood as an electionored in schools and have found it very difficult to explain to disabled voters that we did not therefore rely enough on, for example, the spouse of the disabled, for us to dare to allow a couple to take part in the election. In future, we will be spared these situations. I think that is very welcome and I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for a sensible resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180731	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119180750	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we think that this is a very good proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward. In our view, it is quite right to leave it up to those citizens who, because of a disability, need help to cast their vote, in other words to have the opportunity to decide for themselves who they want to help them; who they want to be present in the ballot box when the vote is to be cast. We made a similar proposal a few years ago on an earlier occasion. The current rules on the presence of an elected or other official are perceived by a great many people with disabilities and by the organisations of the disabled as an inestimation of the individual, and very clear statements are very strong from Danish Blind society, but also supported by the other disability organisations, in the form of a wish that the individual citizen with disabilities should have the right to be accompanied by a person of his or her own choice. In previous proposals there has been a debate in this Chamber where there was scepticism about such a proposal and it was justified that the purpose of the existing legislation was to give the citizen a guarantee that the cross was actually put where the citizen wanted it. I think that this is an approach that can be understood. I do not agree with it, but I would like to acknowledge that there is a point in that point of view, but there is also a very clear and significant position on the part of the citizens who have the need themselves, that they believe it to be impervious. And there are clear statements and recommendations from Danish Handicap organisations about changing the rules in connection with other discussions in this Chamber. So I would like to say, like the other speakers who have been up here, that we are pleased that there is an indication from the Minister that the proposal is being welcomed. I think that's really good. I also think it is very wise to have a thorough discussion with Danish Handicap organisations, so we are sure that what we can seem to agree on here together is something that also covers the disabled groups and that we are absolutely sure that the way we respond to the proposal recognises and respects the wishes of disabled citizens themselves. So I would like to thank both the proposer and the Minister for accepting that we can have this adopted. That's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181047	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181057	It is hardly surprising to anyone that we in the Liberal Alliance pay tribute to freedom and therefore also to resolutions which increase personal freedom. This is what this motion for a resolution does: it will allow people with disabilities to vote in all elections in Denmark with the help they want. At the same time, electronic aids are made available to make it easier for this target group to vote for themselves. This is not a big step towards more personal freedom in general, but for the individual citizen who is forced to have an election organised with him into the voting box, it will of course be seen as a freedom to be able to choose for himself who is going to join the vote, and that is how it should be. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the resolution and also thanks the Danish People's Party for submitting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181149	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181158	As has already been said, this proposal is about two things: 1) that people with special needs can decide for themselves who should join them in the voting box; 2) that there must be more tools to enable people with special needs to cross the voting box. We see the proposal as a continuation of the fact that in recent years several laws have been adopted that make it easier for people with special needs to participate in the election process and exercise their democratic rights. The alternative's desire to make democracy accessible to citizens and involve citizens in democracy is a very good way of getting away. If we then know that for a long time disability organisations have wanted to improve the ability of their members to vote as independently as possible, it is of course easy for us to support these proposals, which make it even simpler for people with special needs to put an independent cross in parliamentary, municipal and regional elections and elections to the European Parliament. We look forward to further work in the forthcoming committee on putting these proposals into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181302	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181320	When I was a little surprised, it's because it's actually Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg, who has come too late for his rapporteur's work here in Parliament, but now I take it over and thank the President for his resourcefulness. We are also in favour of the proposal, and we have discussed in the parliamentary group whether we should say that we could have both a personal helper that was chosen, but also one of the electoralists so that there is the certainty that there is no form of manipulation, which lies behind the provision we know today. But we are quite open to discussing solutions in this area. So we're positive, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181408	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181418	Parliament has also dealt with proposals in the past, which dealt with better accessibility in electoral procedures, and this is entirely in line with SF's policy of promoting equality and, moreover, also with the Disability Convention. We support initiatives that can help to give people more equal opportunities, regardless of any disability or disability they may have. Increased accessibility to polling stations and access to more aids can give people with disabilities greater opportunity to be independent and facilitate their access to voice without help from others. So the initiative contained in the motion for a resolution backs the SF. Of course, how this can be done in practical terms requires further work. The ideal would of course be if all the tools were available at each polling station, but since people have many different disabilities and different needs for aids, it might be something that the individual could order in advance, so you were sure it was available at your nearest polling station. It is certainly outside this resolution, but it could also be relevant to introduce greater opportunities for electronic choices, which would increase accessibility for many people. The second part of the motion for a resolution, namely the possibility of choosing what personal assistance you want, is a little more difficult because two important principles are at odds with each other, and you must therefore weigh them up in relation to each other and decide which principle is the most important. On the one hand, we have the right of citizens to self-determination, so that they can choose from whom they want help. It can be a mate, a good friend, a helper, or others. On the other hand, we have the protection of the secret vote, which is absolutely fundamental to our democracy, in order to create confidence that the electoral process takes place comfortably, and in order to ensure that the intersection is crossed where the electorate wanted it too. Today, people with disabilities already have the opportunity to choose to take someone they know into the voting box, but at the same time there must be an elected representative present. It is precisely to ensure that there are no errors in voting and to prevent others from influencing the electoral process. Having said that, I would like to say that it weighs heavily on the fact that the proposal is supported by those it concerns and by the disabled organisations, so that the principle of self-determination is the most important. We in the SF would therefore like to support the proposal and then hope that the committee work will be able to continue working on such issues as who should be included in this right of choice and who should help them in the election process and how to ensure that there is still confidence that the electoral process will take place as it should. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181712	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181720	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for giving us the opportunity to debate this proposal in the Chamber today. It can be said that our task as politicians is to ensure that people with disabilities can live on as equal terms as possible with everyone else, and that is why I think that the element of the motion for a resolution which deals with this issue of AT is really positive, because I think that, in fact, many people with disabilities would prefer that, in other words, to be the wheel on their own. Then, of course, there are people with some types of disability who are easier to make aids for than others, as Mrs Trine Torp also mentioned. For example, I believe that a visual disability can be relatively easily remedied in the voice box by means of various means, while other types of disability are more difficult to develop aids for. But we can all learn more about that. I also think that Mrs Trine Torp said another right thing in relation to this meeting of interests and important principles. We have also discussed this here in the Conservative Parliamentary Group, because it is important that we have a principle to ensure that the one who has decided to entrust his vote is also the one who ends up having it. Everything else equal, you can certainly find hypothetical examples where you might take your husband to the vote box as a helper and where you end up voting something other than you might have wanted. It is true, however, as has been said, that it is the disability organisations who have themselves wanted it here. The people it affects have a great desire for this, and that is why I think we, as politicians, must say that the balance will then fall in such a way as to satisfy their wishes. In those words, we in the Conservative People's Party also support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181916	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119181935	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Minister for supporting this motion for a resolution, and also thanks to all of you, who have probably received a great many requests from the group concerned, just like we in the Danish People's Party. I think, as Mrs Mette Abildgaard also said, that it is important for the Danish Parliament to do everything in its power to ensure that people with disabilities can live as normal a life as the rest of us; at least we do our best to help. We must recognise that this has been a special concern. We emphasised this in 2009 when we adopted it because we wanted to protect this group of people. But they do not want that particular consideration because they feel that they are being discriminated against and that they also feel discriminated against. That is why, of course, I think it is really nice that a majority of the parliamentary parties support this. I was not fully aware of whether the Radicals fully support this, but we can find out. In any case, there is a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, and I think there are very, very many people who will be happy about that. And of course we would like to thank the Danish People's Party for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182101	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182116	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182142	The motion for a resolution we are debating now wants to oblige the government to make it a duty for the municipalities to use their websites to provide information on the time limits for processing in the social field. The Danish People's Party tabled a similar motion for a resolution in the last session, B 128, in which I myself was then the rapporteur of the Left in this area, and I would like to start by saying, as I did at the time, that I think it is a good and sensible objective behind the proposal. The government basically believes that the public is there for the citizens, not the other way around, and therefore it is also important that the municipalities are good at communicating with the citizens. When it comes to processing times in the social field, citizens should easily be able to obtain information on the level of service they can expect from their municipality. But it will certainly come as no surprise that, although I believe that the intention behind the motion for a resolution is correct, the position of the government on the proposal will be the same as that of the Left in the last session of B 128, namely that we cannot support the motion for a resolution, and there are two reasons for this. First of all, as you know, the municipalities are already obliged to set deadlines for the duration of the proceedings in the individual cases, and the time limits for publication are the obligation of the municipality. So the responsibilities of the municipalities in this area are quite clear. The second reason is that the government basically believes that as far as possible we should leave it to the municipalities themselves to assess which methods are best suited to achieving the objectives that we set out from the central point of view. In relation to the length of proceedings in the social field, I can point out the conditions set out in the preparatory work on the rules in force. It is provided that the time limits are published by the municipalities in a manner that is customary in each municipality and that interested citizens have good opportunities to familiarise themselves with the deadlines. Within this framework, the individual municipal council has the freedom to decide how to publish in the municipality concerned, and in more detail I do not believe in principle that we in the Folketing should legislate here. I have then noted that many municipalities actually publish the processing deadlines on their website. I think this is quite natural as well, but I am not so concerned that the 98 municipalities do not necessarily all publish exactly the same way. What is important is that the deadlines are to be found and, ultimately, that matters are actually dealt with on time. It means, as I see it, less whether the deadlines are published in one way or in another way in the neighbouring municipality. I understand that in many contexts it is nice to have this great overview, as from the central point of view, but on the other hand we should not be blind to the fact that citizens are different and that we also have different needs. As I said, I agree with the proposers that the websites of the municipalities appear to be an obvious place to publish the time limits for the proceedings. This is where a great deal of other information for citizens is already posted, but it is not all citizens who are equally good at using the digital information sources, and I can therefore imagine that there may be other ways of communicating that can be equally appropriate to some groups of citizens. If you compare municipalities in a sample which actually publish their processing deadlines on the website, there is also a difference in how you do it and how easy it is to find the information on the many pages you can click through. In fact, a rule such as that put forward by the authors of the motion for a resolution will not be able to change that. Such a rule will therefore not be a guarantee that all municipalities will follow the best examples. If it is to be made easier for citizens to find the time-limits for cases in municipalities that may not be so good at communicating them today, then there must be wider communication tools in play, and I think that this kind of challenge is best solved by dialogue and not by centrally established procedural rules. So I would like to take this opportunity to call on the municipalities to take a critical look at their communication efforts to the citizens in this area. Is that okay? Yeah, maybe it's not everywhere. At the same time, I would urge citizens and associations to seek to influence the municipalities if they have certain wishes for the way in which the municipality has to publish their deadlines. So the government shares the objective behind the resolution, but we believe that the proposed remedy is neither necessary nor appropriate, and therefore the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182646	Thank you. There is one brief comment for the time being, and it is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182652	Thank you. It would have been nice if we had continued to do the same, but having said that, on the basis of some inquiries I have received, I would like to inform the Minister that there are challenges in this area, also in relation to citizens having difficulty finding these deadlines. When they cannot find them, they cannot see how long such a case takes, for example. if you're looking for a BPA scheme or something. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to place it on the municipality's website, because then you can at least go in to look there. Then I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is aware that there have been supervisory cases in this area in relation to Article 3 (3) of the Law. 2 on the supervision of the State administration. Perhaps the Minister could tell us a little about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182743	Whether or not supervisory cases have specifically been raised regarding the lack of information on deadlines, I cannot explain here, but it is clear that the supervisory authority is monitoring that the municipalities comply with the rules that exist. And yes, there are clear rules for informing us about the processing times in this area. The thing about just thinking that if you lay down some rules from a central point of view, it doesn't necessarily become very, very simple. What is important, and as I also pointed out in my speech, is that if you as a citizen experience that you simply cannot find the information here, then of course you have to go into dialogue with your municipality and ask it where it is and how you can find this information. And of course you have to be aware and aware that there is a duty to get this information.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182838	I have also found this letter from the administration on supervisory decisions. The State Administration writes here: "The State Administration takes the view that the time limits laid down in Article 3 (3) of the Law on legal certainty. 2, has not been or at the time of the occurrence of the case was not fixed and published. So there are some challenges in this area. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that it would be good if these deadlines were simply to be made compulsory on the local authorities' websites, so that citizens have the opportunity to keep up with them, but also have the opportunity to complain if the municipality does not comply with the processing times. I know the Ombudsman has also been out about this in relation to some municipalities that have not complied with these procedural deadlines. So there are, of course, some challenges in this area that I think we can solve by, among other things, the municipalities. publish the deadlines on their websites. But may I just ask the Minister: does the Minister think that it is okay to simply leave a folder in the library, where they provide information about these processing deadlines?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119182944	We have not, of course, made central demands on the form in which the information is provided, and I do not think we should do so either. In fact, I think it is very, very clear that time limits should be set for the duration of the proceedings in individual matters and that the time limits should be made public by the municipality. A publication is also a pamphlet at the local community centre or at libraries around it. A great many municipalities communicate primarily through their website, but frankly I do not think that it benefits the purpose here that we should from a central point of view lay down rules on exactly how to publish it. The most important thing is that the important knowledge is publicly available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183031	Thank you, Minister. And then I give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183042	For social democracy, it is important to ensure that we have active local democracy and municipal autonomy, and of course it is within a framework. But the interest in social relations is, of course, very much linked to the mutual and political activity created by experiences in the vicinity of citizens. The municipality is the public authority, which in many respects is closest to the citizens, and we would really like to create the best platforms for citizens to get involved in the place in which they live. I think the municipal authorities are well aware that they come the longest with citizens who experience themselves involved in local government through information on the possibilities of involvement. The Danish Parliament has already provided for citizens to be informed about processing times, because it is an important part to assess the efficiency and respect of the municipality for its citizens. We are therefore not prepared to make further demands which the municipalities must comply with. After all, the simplest way to inform your citizens is through the Internet and its many possibilities, which is why a great many municipalities also choose to inform their citizens in this way. But it cannot be ruled out that there are different traditions in the municipalities, and these must be assessed by the citizens in conjunction with the municipalities in order to possibly change habits and traditions. We have confidence in both the people and the citizens, and that is why we no longer want Christiansborg to regulate the interaction. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183230	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183235	Thank you. I am surprised that the Socialists are voting against it, because I have the impression that the Socialists are also very concerned about the legal certainty of the citizens and that they can be given the opportunity to know about these procedural deadlines. Now it is the case today that they are going to be published, but there is no mention of where they should be published at all. So in principle it could be a brochure that was put in the library. Does the Socialist rapporteur think that this is a fair way of doing so in terms of informing citizens about the time limits for the proceedings? Would it not be better to publish it on the municipality's website? Yes, of course you can also publish it elsewhere, but at least it could be made compulsory that it was on the municipality's website, because then it would be more accessible to citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183325	So, as I said, we have great faith that the municipality has behaved properly towards its own citizens. What is to say that the municipalities do not behave properly and respectfully towards their citizens? Of course, they do this by complying with the information obligation they have and also by involving citizens. We don't believe that one partout gets more out of a higher degree of centralisation in this society, but that can be seen differently. I understand that the Danish People's Party would like further centralisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183356	For the Danish People's Party, the legal certainty of citizens is important and we think it is important that they can find information about the time limits for the proceedings, so that they can follow the cases, but can also complain if the time limits for the proceedings are not respected. The rapporteur says that you have confidence in local self-government, and it is also good to have confidence, but when you do so time and time again, among other things. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been informed of the studies carried out and of the many shortcomings and shortcomings that exist in the municipal area, so it should also be noted; this is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183430	But we still have the conviction that the citizens are best served by having a proper discussion with their municipal politicians about whether they live by it and show the local politicians that there are other traditions elsewhere that you might be able to copy. We think it is quite good that we can see different examples. And then it is clear that if the supervisory authority catches municipalities from being on the wrong side of the fence, it is of course the case that the municipality should be instructed to do so. That is why we have a system of supervision to ensure citizens, and that is a natural thing in a well-functioning democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183510	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur on the Left, Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183518	From the heart, thank you. See, the proposal we are considering now is that information about processing times, but obviously only in the social field, should be made compulsory to publish on the websites of individual municipalities. In other words, we do not disagree very much, because in the Left, of course, we share the view that it should be easy for citizens to find out the times of cases which they are interested in in one way or another, and we already have legislation to ensure this. Because we have legislation which requires the municipalities to publish the processing times. That is what the authors of the motion for a resolution themselves write in the justification for their proposals. The municipalities are obliged to set and publish the deadlines from the receipt of an application to a decision, and if the deadline is not met, applicants must be informed in writing of when to expect a decision. However, we do not have any legislation which will ensure the uniformity of exactly how publication is to take place, as the authors of the motion for a resolution want. It is up to the municipalities to decide for themselves, and the Left believes it should continue to be. We focus on results and not on process, and if the individual municipality has a special way of doing things that work, then we in the Left see no reason to have centrally established rules on the method in this area, but in 2016, when we have gradually got used to the fact that the Internet is probably something that has come to stay, I simply cannot imagine the municipality that should not choose to publish it on the website. That's the easiest, the simplest and the cheapest to do. Why should you sit down and make a brochure and distribute it to all the libraries or have a man stand down at City Hall Square with a bell and announce that the municipality's processing times are so and so long? It's on the websites, and if it's not on the website, it's my claim that it's because the municipality doesn't live up to the law. And then you have to grab them, and you can do that in many ways. The easiest would be just to write an e-mail to the committee chairman or the mayor saying, "Look, where are these processing times?" And, of course, it is hoped that the politician in question will have red ears. So in the Left, we simply do not think that we need to set in motion a huge legislative process in order to ensure something that should already happen. Well, if you don't publish it on the website, where the hell would you do it? So we agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution on the objective, but not on the means, which is, of course, that we should embark on a legislative process for a tiny thing, which is going on in advance, and that is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183813	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183817	Thank you. Does the rapporteur for the Left not agree that it will not be a major bureaucratic legislative catalogue that comes out of this, but that it will be possible to correct it in the notice, in relation to their publication on the municipality's website? It has to be the case that citizens can find these time limits. What I have at least been informed of is that these time-limits for processing are often kept a little out of the way and that they are not always so easy to access. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party find it important to publish it clearly here on the municipal website so that citizens can find them. What we have also heard about this is that sometimes people have been creative in relation to these processing deadlines. It has been written that the processing time lasts from 0 to 2 years or something. So, of course, I do not share the rapporteur's view on this. And it will not be a great bureaucracy either; it is just a small addition that it is on the municipality's website that it is published so that citizens can easily find them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183920	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119183921	Well, then I'll have to come up with a counter question: Hidden off the road where, that is, hidden off the road on the website, or what? If it's in some drawer up at City Hall, it's not public. Well, I hear that you have been contacted by some citizens who have had difficulty finding the information on the municipality's website, and there are many websites that could become more user-friendly, no doubt about it, but it doesn't solve this. This is just saying that it has to be published on the website, and then the municipality can have some troublesome website that can be difficult to find around in. But that doesn't solve this proposal. The second question that was asked does not solve the proposal either, i.e. that a municipality might be creative in how they write things. After all, they would be able to do so creatively on the municipality's website if the motion for a resolution were followed. I think that these are quite different problems which, if any, are at the root of the problem, and the municipalities must then be addressed, and one could then call on the Minister to perhaps contact the National Association of Municipalities and to point out that there is this obligation to publish, so that they can draw the attention of the municipalities to the fact that this is expected to happen in a user-friendly way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184031	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184033	I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur cannot see that this is simply a matter of ensuring the legal certainty of citizens and ensuring that they are able to keep up. That, among other things. I have been asked about the fact that not all municipalities are doing so, and I have had the answer to a committee question that I asked that there is no answer to whether all municipalities are doing it and who is doing it and who is not doing it. This question could, of course, be asked again in committee, i.e. how many municipalities publish these processing deadlines on their website. However, I have to take note of the fact that although the rapporteur says that this is a good thing, one is not willing to go so far as to say that it must be published and made clear on the municipality's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184120	Well, I did not get an answer to my question about where it was hidden, and I take that as an indication that it was hidden on the website, but that it was so that when the minister answers that you have no overview of it, it is because you have not approached 98 municipalities and asked them to report back within some time limit, where it is stated on the website. But why not take up the local authority that publishes it unfairly and in an uncitizen-friendly way? Why don't you do it instead? Why should everything be run up to legislative work here in Parliament? A lot, a lot of problems are solved much better in reality than in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184202	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further and give the floor to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184222	I regret that I had just forgotten that the authors of the motion are not, of course, in the rapporteur's line. I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten supports this proposal. It is important that information of this kind is available so that citizens can have an overview and that information is transparent. Is this the world's biggest and most groundbreaking proposal we're in here? No, I guess not. On the other hand, is it as violent an intervention in municipal self-government as it is being made up here? No, it's not. It is a tiny thing to impose on the municipalities, and I think that in particular those parties that are behind such things as the budget law and all the financial sanctions that are against the municipalities, where one goes in and interferes with something so godly in the municipal economy, should talk about municipal autonomy from this platform with a little less pathos than has been the case right now. I also find it interesting that it is the Minister who is talking about the fact that when this is something like this, which actually ensures that the citizens have a kind of transparency and thus are also a little more able to see through their own rights and what they can expect in practice, then we need to have dialogue, and then we need to talk about it with our municipality. I am sorry, but I simply do not know where I am talking to my municipality and I am a relatively resourceful person. But I would not know where to turn to enter into a dialogue with my municipality. I really don't think really living people do that. So no, Enhedslisten does not think it is the most revolutionary proposal from the Danish People's Party, but we do think it is a good proposal that we will support. And then we think that anyone else who is busy talking in big terms about how terrible this is should remember the terms next time we talk about, for example. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184438	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, so please return to the rapporteur. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184452	Yeah, yeah, you don't get off that easy. I should just like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: if we now have a legal obligation for municipalities to publish these processing times, and if not on the website, where does this happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184512	I do not know, and that is also why I find it very difficult to understand why it is such a terrible proposal to implement. Well, if there are citizens who haven't been able to find this information on a municipal website, then it's crazy. And if, as sir... Jan E. Jørgensen uses as an argument, that is something that already happens, so it is almost a waste of more breath that we do not just implement it and make sure we move on. However, if you think it is so easy, you could take the time to check whether the citizens who seem to be having trouble with it have something to do with it. After all, it is also the Minister as the chief executive in this area who has to keep an eye on the fact that the legislation we are implementing is actually being complied with in a reassuring way. But the government is rejecting this proposal because you don't believe it can be that it's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184604	This is a very funny debate and, in fact, a bit of a matter of principle, because if we are to legislate on everything that is already happening, we will certainly have a lot to do in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184613	We could then find out whether there is really a problem as a minister responsible. You could do that instead of just saying that you don't think there is, and then don't do any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184625	A further brief comment has been made, and that is from Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184629	I am a little surprised that Enhedslisten's rapporteur brings the epic news that she does not know how to communicate with her municipality in this way. I am aware that in the municipality I come from, Enhedslisten is setting up to help influence how the municipality performs its tasks towards its citizens. Does it really matter to the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184701	I think I'm either misunderstood, sir. Orla Sea, or that Mr. Orla Hav misunderstands me. I believe that the municipality is not a person with whom you call and engage in dialogue. And I said it because the Minister said that if you had a problem finding something like this, you could enter into a dialogue with your municipality. I would just like to point out in all silence that this is not the way things work for very many ordinary people, that is to say that you feel that there is someone at the municipality you can turn to and that you are then part of such a little dialogue with where you might find things. It is true that Enhedslisten is running for Aalborg City Council and in virtually all other municipalities too. But that does not mean that ordinary people can call, and always know where to call in the municipality for information.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184749	I agree that the municipality is not a person. The municipality is a community consisting of the citizens living in the municipality, and in it the municipal council is a fairly important player, making a virtue of being in a proper dialogue with its citizens and also being the shop steward of the citizens who might call and raise questions of this or that nature. In addition, every citizen has a case officer if we look around that way. Mrs Pernille Skipper, too, should that be needed. I don't believe that there will be. But I'd like to warn a little bit about the rhetoric that the municipality isn't going to talk to. There are good opportunities to influence the municipality, and there must also be an active democracy. That's the view we have on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184837	I think that these are very fine and fine words that are being put on municipal democracy, and I fully agree with them. I never said anything else. But I say that I simply do not believe that there are very many people who, as citizens, feel that there is room for dialogue with the municipality if they cannot find what they are looking for on its website. And if you imagine that the dialogue between citizens and municipalities is so good that most citizens are just thinking that there is just something I can enter into a dialogue with my municipality about, then I think you are denying reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184910	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119184921	Thank you. This proposal will ensure that the citizens of a municipality can be informed of the processing times in the social field. For us in the Liberal Alliance, transparency is essential, so that as a citizen of a municipality you can easily find relevant information and key figures about the municipality, whether it is the municipality you live in or whether it is a municipality you intend to move to. We are not in favour of the detailed administration of the municipalities from Christiansborg, which is why we voted against this proposal the last time it was tabled. However, we are also not in favour of citizens not being able to easily identify what, for example, the deadlines for the period between the receipt of an application and the decision being taken are. This motion for a resolution forces us once again to take a position on what we think is the highest. Is it transparency for citizens, or is it municipal autonomy? In fact, I do not think that is an easy decision. However, in this particular case, we are now choosing to be on the side of the citizens rather than on the side of the system, thereby giving priority to transparency as to what might be perceived as unnecessary retail management by Christiansborg. It is therefore a change of attitude from when the proposal was tabled last. We are not so naive that we believe that transparency will lead to better processing times, but we do believe that openness and visibility can create a bit of competition that can at best have a positive effect on this area. We support the proposal because, as I said, we have chosen to stand on the side of the citizens rather than on the side of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185105	Thank you. And there is one brief comment for the time being. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185110	Thank you. I hope that Mrs Laura Lindahl, who is himself in a municipal council, is a little better informed than Mrs Pernille Skipper about how to get in touch with her municipality. But I thought LA was a party that was in favour of us not having to legislate on something that was superfluous. And if so, this will be very superfluous, because I do not have the imagination to imagine how municipalities would publish something in 2016, if it didn't happen on the website. It doesn't make much sense to put a big ad in the newspaper and write what the processing times are, without putting it on the website at the same time. So can Mrs Laura Lindahl tell me where you think municipalities choose to publish this information, if not on the website?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185158	Thank you. Of course I know the municipalities, but I probably don't know them better than Mrs Pernille Skipper. I think Mrs Pernille Skipper has a very good point in saying that it is probably not the majority of citizens who call and get help to navigate around a municipality's website. Compared to where they can save these numbers, if that's what they're interested in, you can easily imagine that there's a pamphlet somewhere on the municipality where it appears. It's not obvious. I agree that it is obvious to do so on the website. We are not in favour of unnecessary regulation, but we are in favour of transparency and, as I said in my speech, this is about what is most important. Do we think that this is such an interference in local self-government that it should be given greater weight than transparency for citizens? And there are also other areas in which we would like to legislate from in here to impose transparency and transparency on the municipalities, because, as the Minister also said at the outset, the public is there for the citizens, it is not the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185259	So we have to make a law, because one might well imagine that some municipality has no one told which municipality it is possible to publish something, but not publish it on the website. So, I do not think there is much cause for arguing that there really is a burning need for us to create new legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185325	No, we should not legislate because there may be a local authority in the country somewhere that might theoretically think of something. We have to legislate on this because we know that there are examples of citizens who can't find these specific deadlines on local authorities' websites. We have received evidence that, in this way, there are citizens who have not been able to find them. It may be that it is because citizens do not know who to contact, but for so long as there are these problems, we think it makes sense to legislate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185355	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185403	We can see the intention of the proposal that municipalities should publish the processing times on their website, and we think it is very important that citizens know the processing times. But we don't want to go in there and run the local authorities' communication to the citizens in this kind of case. We must be careful to legislate in a way in which we force the many to do what they do in advance, because some individuals may not be able to find out. In the alternative, we would like to set the municipalities as free as possible, because we believe that then they work best. And it also means that they themselves must be responsible for how they communicate their processing times to the citizens. That is why we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185453	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. The next is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185502	I was just getting cheerful when I heard Mrs Pernille Skipper's speech, where a proportion was made between the municipalities' obligation to provide information on the deadlines for the proceedings on the website and then that Denmark has a comprehensive economic policy which concerns both the municipalities and the state and the regions. I think that's interesting. I would like to philosophize about that a little more in relation to what the consequences of this kind of thing can be. It may be because we belong to two different kinds of parties, one does not know that, but it could be. Then we'll know. I would like to say and remind you that the state administration is the supervisory authority vis-à-vis the municipalities. I would also like to remind you that there is something called civil service. In fact, I do not know any municipalities that do not have a citizens' service often in the corner of a library or some other appropriate place. It is a fantastic good thing if, by the way, there are some employees who are able to answer the citizens' questions. That has been the times I have needed it. However, I also recognise that there is a problem if there are citizens who cannot find the information they need. That is why I think we should try to go a completely different way than to legislate. In these years, I am very concerned about seeing a paradigm change in our society, understood in the sense that we are getting a more and more independent or active or strongly founded civil society. In fact, we have citizens who, to a large extent, take the initiative themselves and do some things. I am extremely proud to live in Denmark, where the Venligs have become the Venligs and have spread south of Limfjorden. I would like to say a great deal about the forces in Vendsyssel, and it is even beyond the borders of the country that we are a good example. There are 120,000 people who are members and profess to be friends around Denmark. They are making a huge effort without us having legislated. It is not because I want to tell the House that they must now deal with this matter too, but I would actually say to Radical Youth that this is a really good case for them. They must spread across all municipalities and find out whether it is difficult or easy to find out what response times are in the individual municipalities. And then they have to give me a report, and then I have to take care of it. It's civil coage that wants something, and you don't have to sit in parliament to do that. You can make that up by yourself. It is much simpler, it is much more educational, if I may say so, for young people, and I look forward to it being put forward at the General Committee meeting in the Radical Left on 30 January, and then we will take action accordingly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185759	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185808	This just before became a small course in democracy by Mrs Marianne Jelved. I am going back a little to the subject, because in the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field, it is already the case that the municipalities are obliged to set deadlines for the proceedings and to inform the citizens about it. This proposal will then make it compulsory for it to be published on the local authorities' websites. For SF, it is important that citizens know their rights and opportunities and that efforts are made to inform as citizens as well as possible about the process of processing and redress. We would very much like to work on this, together with the other parties in the Folketing. But this proposal is only a small part of a major problem, which is about how citizens are best involved and informed about the course of action they are part of. At the same time, municipalities should be free to communicate with citizens in the way they think best. Many municipalities already use the website to provide information on processing times and deadlines, but this is not a guarantee that citizens will experience proper information and advice. I've got one of them. the local authorities' websites are not yet available to find their way around. So the question is whether it makes any sense at all to bet so much on the very thing with central rules from Christiansborg. So, although we share in the SF the intention to improve procedures and information for citizens, we do not believe in the great importance of this proposed way of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119185947	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190001	Thank you. It is, after all, a relatively limited proposal. It is not so extensive or intrusive, and it will not cause great bureaucratic burdens for the municipalities to do so here. The first thing I thought was: Oh, no, that's the thing about updating every four weeks. But this is not the case here. These are deadlines that are adopted once and put on a website, and so it is. So the administrative burden associated with it must be said to be absolutely small. Then it has been pointed out whether this is a problem, i.e. whether the municipalities are not already doing so today. Well, if that's the case, that's pretty good. But now this view has just been raised that not all municipalities are doing so today and that it can be extremely difficult to find their way around the local authorities' websites. In fact, I recently read my husband's member's magazine. I have a man at home who is a journalist and a member of the Danish Journalist Federation. There was actually a journalist who had to do some surveys across the municipalities and who really hasceled with the municipalities' websites, i.e. how extremely difficult it is to find information. So I think it's a good step to take to get this information on the website in the first place, and hopefully we'll just have to make sure it's available. It doesn't help that it's posted as news in a news module in 2013, which isn't updated, so you can't find it anyway. But from the Conservative People's Party we think it is an excellent proposal which does not interfere with municipal autonomy, which has now been a bit of talk about. I think it's a little silly to use such a big expression on such a relatively small matter. So we also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190142	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190147	It is a small matter, but there are, in fact, some interesting principles in it and some different attitudes to municipal autonomy that emerge. For the Conservative People's Party obviously does not trust that there are politicians sitting around the municipal councils who, if they are met with a request from a citizen that it is difficult to find these processing times, will go ahead with the problem and resolve it. If we make a law in here, where we write that it should be on the municipality's website, period, it doesn't solve anything • nothing • because as the rapporteur himself says: What if a municipality chooses to write what the processing times are, in a news field from 1 January 2013? Then it is completely bodily to find your way around the website and find it again. Then you live up to this law, but we haven't solved any problem in real life. So, yes, it's a small matter, but it kind of testifies to the fact that there are some parties in here who just don't believe that the municipalities can find out I almost said anything. When we say that the municipalities must publish it, we believe that the municipalities are so weakly functioning that they cannot find a way to publish it the most logical place of all, namely on the municipality's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190256	We just have to say that there are some municipalities that are so functioning, as this is a problem in some places today. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he does not have more confidence in local self-government than if they can decide for themselves whether they want to set time limits. Are we supposed to make it a requirement on the part of the Danish Parliament that these time limits should be set? For that is what we have decided to do. So I just think it is a logical consequence of that that it is also said that it should be published in a place where it is accessible to those people for whom it is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190330	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190332	Where? Which municipalities do not meet the requirement to publish properly? Which municipalities haven't published this on their website?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190344	Someone's whispering Kalundborg to me. I haven't been sitting around and pervading all the local authorities' websites. The Ministry has not even been able to give a clear answer to that. However, I would like to say that I also believe that we have the fundamental problem, that there are many citizens who have no idea that there are rules that there must be limits in this area. Therefore, it is just a necessity that the information is easily accessible. Because I don't think you go to the municipality yourself and ask: what is the time limit right here with us? Because I simply do not believe that the citizens are aware that there is a requirement for a limit to be set. I wasn't before this proposal came. So I think that is actually a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190417	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190424	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the Enhedslisten and the Conservative and Liberal Alliance for supporting this particular motion for a resolution. In the Danish People's Party it is important that you as a citizen can see how long it takes for your municipality to deal with your case in different areas. It is important for citizens to be able to keep up with these times of social proceedings in the municipality in which they live. It must be easy, and it must be simple to keep in mind how long it takes to deal with a case. Article 3 (3) (2) The Decree on the Law on legal certainty and administration in the social field provides that the municipal council must set time limits for the period between the receipt of an application and the decision. The time limits shall be published. If the time limit cannot be met in a specific case, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the date on which the applicant can expect a decision. However, today there is no requirement for the deadlines to be published on the municipality's website. Some municipalities use the website to publish the deadlines, but not all of them do, as the municipalities can also choose other ways of informing citizens about the time limits for the proceedings. In order to make it easier for citizens to follow the case in the municipality, we from the Danish People's Party want the municipalities to be obliged to provide information about the processing times on the municipality's website. This uniformity will make it easy and fast for citizens to keep up with, and this will mean greater legal certainty for citizens. The important thing in this context is to be able as a citizen to inform themselves about the level of service in the area of the municipalities and how long it can be expected to take before a decision is taken in the social field. After all, the proposal is not expected to entail additional costs, as it is required to publish it, but not in a particular form or via a particular medium. It may also be claimed that the municipalities' obligation to publish processing times on their website on the Internet is an interference with municipal self-government. That's what we heard today. The proposers believe that this is an extremely limited measure, which should be seen in the light of the considerable improvement in the legal certainty of citizens. In addition, in other contexts the citizen is asked to communicate with the authorities via various self-service options on the Internet, such as Payout Denmark and SKAT. Why, then, is it not also reasonable to ask the municipal authorities to provide relevant information to citizens on their website so that citizens can easily find the information? It is not only common sense, but it is good administrative practice to ensure openness and transparency towards citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190715	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190732	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119190752	Thank you. In this motion for a resolution, B 35, it is proposed that the government should take the initiative to change the possibility of obtaining financial compensation in appeals. In short, the proposal provides for compensation to be paid to citizens in cases where the Ankestyrelsen has agreed with the citizen that the municipality has made a wrong decision under the Service Act. It appears that this is the situation in which a municipality has decided to reduce the assistance under the Services Act received to date by the citizen. According to the proposal, the amount of compensation must be proportionate to the benefit not received by the citizen while the complaint was being examined. According to the motion for a resolution, the system must serve two purposes. Firstly, the compensation must be a plaster on the wound to the citizen for the benefit that the citizen has not had access to during the appeal period. Secondly, the payment of compensation must create an economic incentive for municipalities to make the right decision for the first time. The government agrees that all citizens should receive the help they are entitled to under the law. And they need to get the right decision on the aid in the first place. Having said that, I would also like to say that, in my view, a compensation scheme will be an administratively expensive and cumbersome system which, at the same time, will not help to achieve the result that I believe we agree that we want. The motion for a resolution means that the Ankestyrelsen will then have to use resources to decide on the compensation to be paid to the citizen. And on what basis should such compensation be calculated at all? The kind of benefits that will be affected by the proposal are not money benefits. It is, on the other hand, natural aid, for example. accompanying or helping with practical tasks. And this is a considerable difficulty. As I see it, it will, if necessary, be necessary to have a set of rules for the determination of compensation in different situations, and it just seems very administrative. In the case of monetary benefits under the Services Act, the citizen is already receiving retroactive assistance at the time of application if it subsequently turns out that the municipality's decision was wrong. This is true, for example. decisions on additional costs and lost earnings. In addition, financial compensation in cases of natural aid will not give the citizen what the citizen has wanted and has the right to do, namely help under the Services Act when the need is present. Behind the motion for a resolution there seems to be a premise that the municipalities make decisions deliberately and indiscreetly contrary to the law in order to save aid during a period of complaint and that there is a need to remove an economic incentive to such behaviour. It is an premise that I am a little cautious about simply buying such uncritically, because, as I have also said on many previous occasions, I believe that the municipalities basically have the will to shoulder their responsibility for the fact that the procedure is actually in line with the law. In fact, it is also not the case that the appeal statistics show much less redeployed decisions on, for example. in cases where the benefit is granted retroactively to the citizen by the Ankestyrelsen if the benefit is granted to the citizen than the proportion of converted decisions of the Services Act in general. This should actually be the case if we were to follow the opinion of the proposers that the economic incentive would change something. So I do not think that such a compensation scheme will have the effect of making several correct decisions, and that is why it is not the right way for me to go either. As I have said on several occasions and also on several occasions, the legal certainty of citizens in decisions under the Services Act is, in my opinion, essentially two main elements. The first is that citizens must be able to count on the municipalities to do their best to make correct decisions in the first place. The second is, of course, that citizens should have proper redress if they believe that the municipality has made a decision that is not fully in line with the law. And this is actually where I think we should use our powers. This is where we need to concentrate our efforts. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the proceedings are in accordance with the law. On the other hand, it is also important that the municipalities have the best opportunities to fulfil their responsibilities. A number of initiatives have been taken in recent years to support municipal procedures and disseminate knowledge of correct practice. In my view, as I have said, this is a key element in the discussion on how best to ensure legal certainty. I have mentioned the initiatives many times before, and I should just like to mention and highlight here: the current training of municipal case managers and managers by the Ankestyrelsen, the modernisation of the legal hotline of the Agency and the task forces established in the area of children and from 2015 also in the field of disability with experts from the Danish Social Protection Agency and the Danish Agency, who can target the assistance to the municipalities precisely with the aim of obtaining qualified case management in the municipalities. The Ministry also has a review of the guidance on the objectives and general provisions of the Service Act on the way, and this will include: the conditions for reducing a service in connection with changing a municipal service level are clarified. The second element of ensuring the legal certainty of citizens is, as I see it, the right of appeal to the Ankestyrelsen, and here it is crucial that complaints are dealt with within a reasonable period of time so that the citizen can finally clarify what he or she is entitled to. At the same time, it quickly becomes clear to the municipality how the legislation is to be administered in the area in question. Cases have taken too long to be settled in the Ankestyrelsen in the past, but as I have explained several times before, a number of initiatives have been taken to get complaints about municipal decisions dealt with more quickly in the Ankestyrelsen, and this works. In the result plan for the Ankestyrelsen, the time for municipal complaints for 2016 has been set at up to 31⁄2 months, and this is quite different from the 10 months mentioned in the observations made in the motion for a resolution. So it is also important that we in the Folketing take responsibility for the fact that the legislation is understandable to both citizens and municipalities, and also for the fact that it is designed in a way that allows it to be properly administered. That is why, just before the turn of the year, the government announced that we are now launching this work on reforming the adult provisions of the Services Act. And this is, of course, a reform which must be seen in the light of the fact that, in my opinion, our current service law, especially in the adult sector, has become too complex and too difficult for municipalities to administer properly. That is why this reform must result in simplification, but simplification, which must benefit both municipalities and citizens. It must support the fact that the municipalities are looking at the situation of the citizens in one place and are able to give this overall approach, which overall responds to the needs of the citizens. And, of course, there must be a focus on legal certainty. Here I would just mention again that I am putting forward a broad cooperation, among other things. user organisations are involved. They have already been now and here at this early stage. The rapporteurs also know that at the beginning of January I had a good meeting with Danske Handicaporganisations and KL to get the reform work started. I would very much like and believe that it is crucial that we have a good dialogue and that we are aware that we are in the working clothes, because it is about us having to be constructive here, and we also need to have a sensible discussion about the improvements that I think we all agree on the need. So I think that is the right way to go: to create clarity in legislation and to continue to support municipalities in making correct decisions on the basis of professional and economic considerations and on the basis of the needs of the individual and then to work to ensure the prompt handling of complaints. So with this long statement, I would just like to conclude that the government does not support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191640	Thank you, Minister. There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191646	Thank you. It is, of course, regrettable that the government does not support the proposal, because the intention of this is that, when you as a citizen have been deprived of something which is unjustified and successful, you also receive compensation because you have lost something. I do not know whether the Minister has read the report "Right of justice in the administration', which the Lawyer's Board came with here in 2015, and it is not long ago when they write: "Even though the citizen is successful in his complaint after 10-12 months of proceedings in the appeal body, the citizen typically only obtains financial compensation in the form of compensation if the citizen can prove a financial loss. For example, social clients can hardly ever do so simply because they cannot afford to pay for similar private help. That is what the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party wants to take into account. It is in relation to the preventive element, but also as a patch on the wound. I just have to take note of the fact that the government does not support this. I find that very sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191752	As I said, I understand why the proposal comes and the intentions behind it. I just don't think this is the right solution. It is not the right solution to start setting up some kind of compensation regime which is about financial compensation for something that can be very, very difficult to put on crowns and ears. It's already there. You can say "retroactively" if you have been deprived of a benefit and you get it. But for this, starting to put a penny and ear on it, if you agree that you haven't gotten the correct help: do you then have to buy double-up? I do not think that makes any sense. I think that the right way to go is exactly the one that I have outlined in my slightly long speech on this proposal. I am fully aware of the recommendations that have been made and I do not believe that the compensation system is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191848	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191850	When we look at all the inquiries we have received, among other things. from Danish Handicap organisations, and see that it is precisely believed that they on the part of the local authorities are dragging these cases out because they have a financial gain, does the Minister not think that if they now knew that they might not have the financial gain anyway, because they risked having to pay back some of it to the citizen whom they had wrongly deprived, it could be a preventative element?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119191925	The premise that lies in the question raised by Mrs Karina Adsbøl is, of course, that the starting point should be that the municipalities are clearly speculating financially about doing this wrong and poor for the citizens. I am not buying the clear premise. I admit there are complaints and there are complaints. The rapporteur is now talking about an appeal procedure of 10-12 months. I have just explained the lying times and, fortunately, we are far from the regime where it was 10-12 months on average. The right way to go is to do the hard work, and the hard work is to do this reform of the Service Act. And I sincerely hope that this time the Danish People's Party intends to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192013	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192020	I shall be the first to acknowledge that the motion for a resolution touches on some sensitive issues. Of course, we Social Democrats believe that citizens should receive the benefits they are entitled to on the basis of their specific life situation. The Community, here the municipality, must decide on the basis of the legislation in force and on the basis of the professional considerations to be incorporated with regard to citizens. In addition, citizens have an opportunity to appeal. After all, a decision by the Ankestyrelsen obliges the municipality to comply with the decision. What is problematic, and what may be good grounds for discussion, is the risk that the municipalities will see an incentive to make decisions that are sparing in the situation because the municipalities have been given pools to which they must contribute and various other things and that we will have biased regard for the citizens as a result of economic thinking. It is worth thinking about whether there are any incentives in this area which would be very good to see to it because we have an obligation to ensure that citizens receive the help they need and they are entitled to, according to our current legislation. Can we then turn it into such a problem of compensation? I will be deeply sceptical about this, because it will be precisely after our little lecture on what democracy is for, that citizens will not be given special rights in our system by being the strongest to use the best lawyers. After all, they have rights because they are citizens of a legal society in which the rule of law must provide the services that society has decided to provide. That is why we are not prepared to create such a real compensation system. However, we recognise that there is a problem which would very much like to take the Minister to take part in the excerpt, and we see it as sensible to have it done in the context of reviewing the adult provisions of the Services Act. There we would like to take the Minister at his word and say that we would like to take part in negotiations to ensure the help and assistance of citizens from a well-functioning public system, based on the priority given to citizens, in the light of the legislation in force, and in the context of professionalism, which should govern what we are doing as a society in relation to the enforcement of the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192334	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192337	Thank you to the rapporteur for the fact that the rapporteur can see that there are some positive things, although he does not support it with the compensation. Now, in the Danish People's Party, we have put forward a number of proposals on how to address the challenges in this area. I'm sure sir. Orla Hav gets a number of inquiries from people with disabilities and others who simply feel that they are being rolled into the system, and so I would like to hear what the Social Democrats' solution to the challenges we are facing is. This concerns, among other things: on the study which has just been carried out by the Ankestyrelsen on the errors and shortcomings of cases in the field of disability, but also in relation to the investigation by the Lawyers' Council in relation to legal certainty in the administration, which they at least problematize in a number of respects. What is the Social Democrats' solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192436	I can hardly say more clearly than what I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say, it is absolutely essential for us that citizens should see a well-functioning public sector geared to providing them with the help they need, in the light of the legislation in force in this area. We would very much like to support the fact that this is the case, and we would also like it to be the professional considerations that are the governing and the determining ones, and that it is not economic thinking that is the basis for the decision of the municipalities. We would really like to take a look at that. But we are not on a line that says that we are walking in the footsteps of Americanisation, so that it's about who has the best lawyers in this society, so that you can win the American presidential election with the votes 5-3 in the Supreme Court. We are therefore in favour of a lively and active democracy, including a democracy that reveals where there are imbalances that need to be corrected, and we are happy to take part in them in correcting them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192533	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192536	Imagine that in order to get help, you have to hire lawyers. Now that's the way it is, I'd say to Mr. Simpson. Orla Hav, that these people it's about don't have the money to hire lawyers, because they just don't have the means to do it. I don't know if sir. Orla Hav is aware of the cost per hour of having a lawyer, and that is why there are so many challenges in this area, and there have been so many years. It may well be that we in the Danish People's Party are a little impatient now, because now we also want some action, and that is why I am asking the Socialist rapporteur what solutions the Socialists have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192618	I have to say that there is a leprechaun on the line between Mrs Karina Adsbøl and what I am saying. I say that we are not in favour of a society in which you as a citizen must have your rights through lawyers. We are in favour of a society in which we must have our rights through legislation and democracy and the way in which it is practiced. These are the rights that citizens must have. There should be no hiring lawyers or anything else, because it belongs to private law, while this is part of the popular rule we have, it is part of the rights that have been incorporated into the popular rule by means of appeals and so on. So don't shoot me in the shoes that we should go in for lawyers in this area. On the contrary, we want citizens to be treated as citizens and treated properly as citizens by an efficient and fair administrative system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192708	One moment, there is a brief remark from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192714	I'd just like to ask you a question in all silence. It may be because I have misunderstood what Mr. Orla Hav says, but where in this proposal does it say that you should start hiring lawyers? I have understood this proposal as precisely ensuring that all citizens who have been wrongly deprived of their services will automatically receive compensation from the Ankestyrelsen. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192744	There is no mention of lawyers in the proposal, and I must admit that, but I allowed myself to make the little excursion that we have to take care that our society, which is based on the folk regime we have laboriously built up, is not replaced by a system of financial considerations that can be taken into account by drawing private law rules into this area. That's what I see as a small risk. It may be that I see ghosts, and I hope so, because I am very much concerned that we build our rights as citizens in terms of being citizens and having rights as citizens, and that we, as legislators, are able to appeal, ensuring the legal certainty of our citizens in a good and proper way. That is the way in which we see the possibility of safeguarding the interests of the citizens. Yeah, that's what I'm gonna say to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192839	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192842	In fact, I fully agree with all that Mr. Orla Hav says, and that's why Enhedslisten is going to support this proposal. After all, this proposal ensures that all citizens, if wrongly deprived of a right, receive compensation automatically, regardless of whether they can afford a lawyer or not. Without this proposal, citizens will have to hire a lawyer and go through the civil justice system if they are to be compensated for their rights. So I think that Mr. Orla Hav would actually like to say that he supports this proposal, in every argument I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119192924	No, I'm not prepared for that. I am prepared to take the perhaps a little more laborious path and support the proposal that the Minister has put forward, namely that we need to go through the entire adult provisions of the Services Act in order to have a set of rules that are capable of dealing with the administration of them, but also with the citizens' experience of it. That is what I support, and I believe that there will be a very good opportunity to discuss what measures we need to take. I recognise that this is the first thing I said: this motion for a resolution touches on some sensitive issues that we need to look at, and that is what I am promising, and we in the Socialist Group would very much like to take part in looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193007	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. That brings us to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193014	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteur from the Socialists, we in the Left also agree that the Danish People's Party has an important focus: how to ensure that the municipalities make correct decisions, how to ensure that older and vulnerable citizens receive the support and assistance they need and to which they are entitled. So it is a sympathetic proposal at least the intention behind the proposal. But the model itself, that is to say an economic compensation system, does not seem to us to be the way forward. The proposal also goes against the starting point we have, and that is that we trust that the municipalities will at least try to make the right decisions with regard to the citizens when a citizen has a problem that needs to be resolved. And it is also the case in the real world, fortunately, that the vast majority of the decisions taken by the municipalities are correct, because this can be seen from the statistics of the Ankestyrelsen etc. However, we recognise, of course, that it is unsatisfactory when a wrong decision is taken, because it affects a citizen at the other end, and that is why we also agree with the objective that correct decisions should be taken at first instance, in other words at the municipality, and that citizens should have a good and effective service. So we agree with the intentions behind the resolution, but we consider that this is not the best way to achieve the objective on which we agree, that is to say correct, correct decisions. Then there is also the great thorn in the proposal that a compensation scheme would be quite administrative. The Ankestyrelsen, which succeeded in bringing down the processing times, will be burdened with some rather heavy questions and some completely new questions that the Ankestyrelsen is not geared to take a position on. It is the case that the boards we have typically do not decide on financial compensation, because we have the courts to do so. I also think it is rather unclear what financial compensation should be if necessary. Are we talking about some sort of compensation, or are we talking about the municipality paying it to the citizen that the municipality has saved? This will then mean that the citizen will have an economic enrichment which will not compensate for the time he has spent without the aid he has been entitled to, but which gives the citizen some economic enrichment, and that will be quite new. It would be quite new to Danish law that we should then go in and introduce what is called punitive damages in American law, that is, that a citizen should be granted financial compensation without the citizen having suffered an economic loss. So the processing time in the Ankestyrelsen will be affected quite negatively by this proposal, and the municipalities will undoubtedly also demand DUT compensation. So we do not agree with the basic distrust of the municipalities, as there is in the motion for a resolution, namely that the municipalities should deliberately choose to take decisions contrary to the law in order to save money. We agree that wrong decisions are being made, and it is also my experience as a lawyer for quite a lot of municipalities that when wrong decisions were made in the municipalities, it was not due to bad will, it was due to complex legislation that was difficult to navigate. It was much more interesting if we got something done about that problem. Then there is something else that is somewhat unclear to me. The Danish People's Party is tabling two motions for resolutions here today: one is suspensory effect and the other is financial compensation. Do you have to have both? Is it necessary to ensure both the suspensive effect, i.e. that a decision is not implemented until the proceedings in the Ankestyrelsen have been completed, and also a financial compensation? And, if so, what is the financial compensation? The citizen has received the help he was entitled to, and no harm has been done, other than that the citizen has of course had to write a complaint, but otherwise the citizen has not suffered any financial loss. It is not quite clear what the proposers really mean here. So it is not the case that we cannot see the problem; we just think that the solution that the Danish People's Party points to is the wrong one. What the government has instead chosen to do is to start work on the reform of the Services Act in the whole adult sector, which, I hope, will result in simplification and debureaucraticisation in the whole area, so that we can ensure that more correct decisions are taken at first instance. This will benefit the municipalities, but it will primarily benefit the citizens. Against this background, therefore, the Left cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193516	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193521	Imagine if you said to a patient in the health system who had had his leg amputated by mistake: unfortunately it is too bureaucratic to calculate your compensation. It is just quite different in the social field; there you can square and freely, so to speak, make violations of law without having any consequences. Then I have to say about distrust: in order for a politician to have confidence in a municipality, it requires that the municipality also prove itself worthy of trust. And there have been a number of examples. Let us take Odense in the children's cases: they had to close a lot of cases in the children's field because they had to save some money. So it is sometimes difficult to have completely blue eyes and believe that everything the municipalities do is joy and old. It is a good thing that the Left has complete confidence that the municipalities are doing everything they can to help the citizens. However, I just think that we must come to the aid of the citizens in relation to all the requests we have in this area. So I do not think that the rapporteur should simply neglect what I think the rapporteur is doing. As far as the question is concerned, the rapporteur can do so when the proposer is on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193637	I do not think it is fair to say that I am neglecting the problem, nor do I think it is fair to say that I have blind confidence • the rapporteur did not say blindly, but that I just have such an unlimited trust. I have no blind faith in the municipalities. Mistakes happen. Mistakes happen where people are involved, that's the way it is. When you compare it to a hospital that fails and so on, I do not think it is a fair comparison. There is, moreover, a long practice for mengrades and what it triggers from compensation. By the way, those levels of compensation are nothing to shout for. However, I find it difficult to see how to determine the loss that a citizen has suffered by having received an hour less home help for, for example, 5 months than he was entitled to. Well, how do we determine the value of it? Is that what the home helper costs? Is that what the citizen should otherwise have been paying for? And the citizen will not be better off. So I do not think it is quite as simple as the Danish People's Party is trying to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193744	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193746	Then you will try to make it difficult to calculate tariffs. That, of course, is something you find out in your work. Some charges are made in relation to the cost of BPA, the cost of home help, etc. Does the rapporteur not agree that there was recently a case involving a blind woman who had her BPA removed? Does the rapporteur not believe that the woman suffers a great loss by losing her BPA scheme, which she thankfully got back when the Ombudsman entered the case? But what does the rapporteur think it has to do with the consequences for such a person who is dependent on help, mostly 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193832	At least I'm having a hard time putting an amount on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193837	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119193843	Again, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. It is an earlier proposal from the Enhedslisten, and it is among other things. One of the reasons, but of course not the only one, for us to think it is so good. Funny aside, it is a very important proposal that the Danish People's Party re-submits, and I think it is so important that we keep focusing on the fact that there are citizens who are deprived of their services from the municipality. It can be help for people with disabilities; it can be help for older citizens; it can also be a financial support that is incredibly necessary to get a day-to-day relationship and they can disappear for longer periods of several months while you go and wait for the Ankestyrelsen to make a decision on a complaint. As the rapporteur on the Left has said, we will also shortly have to deal with a proposal on suspensive effect, that is to say, if you complain about a benefit already awarded to you in the field of disability, you will be allowed to keep it until the appeal is dealt with. I can already reveal that it will also vote in favour of the Enhedslisten. It is, of course, because the reality that exists and sometimes one would think that it exists only like this outside this small room, because rarely anyone really recognizes it here is that the municipalities speculate financially to go to the edge of the law all the time. They are constantly trying to deprive or reduce the help of citizens in order to save money. And that also means that they are constantly trying to see whether they can suck some services away from some citizens who really need them. That's one thing. This also means that when they cross the border, even where the citizen gets right in his complaint, they save some money along the way, because after all it takes some time to get through a complaint with the Ankestyrelsen. There are, like two purposes in this which make us support it. One is to restore a loss to the citizens, or at least to try to do so. If it is an economic benefit, it is a very specific matter. It can also be a help that has been given, which one has been out to buy even in the meantime for own money. It may be all sorts of things, but at least one way or another we must try to restore the damage that has been done along the way. At the same time, of course, it is also intended to discourage municipalities, so that hopefully they will stop speculating financially about depriving citizens of their help. Moreover, it was also a proposal on which we, under the previous government, agreed with both the Socialists, the SF and the Radicals, and which we had even made together with the three parties. And the problems have not diminished since. I would say that I think these are mysterious arguments coming from up here. I think that an argument about going through adult regulations is strange because it is not going to solve a problem that has been here for years. It is a problem that has been faced for years, and one after the other after the third excuse for not doing anything real about it. At the same time, I would like to say that, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen did, can counter-argument such with internship, i.e. that tariffs and compensations and everything else can be extremely difficult. Yeah, but that's why you have to ask the Ankestyrelsen to do it. We have courts that sit and figure out what compensation for pain and pain should be, that is, where you put emotions and finances together. Then I think we can find a model of how we can financially compensate those citizens who have actually lost a service, sometimes even of an economic nature. It all seems to me, as such, some arguments which do not really relate to the reality, other than that, of course, it is true that the municipalities would not in the same way be able to push the economic pressure that comes from Christiansborg on them further onto the citizens. And then one could risk that some of the pressure came back on the politicians who sit in here and pass the municipal agreements, which may in fact be the real cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194335	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194343	I believe that motion for a resolution B 35 in the same way as B 33 is very much about deciding whether to stand on the side of the citizens or whether to stand on the side of the system. Should the municipality receive a reward if an error has been made which means that Mrs Jensen has lost 4 hours of home help a week during a period in which she was actually entitled to it? As it is today, the municipality wins by such an error assessment because the municipality saves the cost of home help during the period and does not have to compensate for the loss suffered by Mrs Jensen over the period. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is deeply unfair. We recognise that no financial compensation can make up for the fact that Mrs Jensen did not receive the assistance she needed during the period in question, but we nevertheless believe that compensation is reasonable, especially because it may also be that Mrs Jensen has had to buy private help during the period in question. That is why it is important to stress that, for us, this is about compensation and not compensation. When you talk about lawyers and American conditions and private law, it is often a question of compensation. We believe that it is important to maintain that this is compensation rather than compensation. Having said that, it is not intended to be an increased incentive for citizens simply to complain to try it out, because we can also be nervous that, as a citizen, you just always try the system and try to complain. So for us, it is really about finding a balance, so that the municipalities cannot speculate on this on the one hand, but that the citizens also do not complain about just complaining. We are thinking that this could be resolved in concrete terms by introducing a complaint fee which the citizen will, of course, get back if the citizen is successful. In any case, it is important for us to discuss in the further work of the committee how we find a balance in things, so that there are no incentives for distortion by the municipality or by the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194554	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194613	In the alternative, we will not rule out the possibility for the citizen to receive compensation if he or she is successful by the Ankestyrelsen that the municipality has made a wrong decision under the Service Act. We want to help encourage municipalities to be very thorough and careful in making the right decisions in the first place. Therefore, there are some important things that we look forward to discussing in the continued work of the committee. One of them is about how much the proposal will raise the pressure on the Ankestyrelsen. The processing time for complaints in the Ankestyrelsen is on the way down, and it is very, very important to continue this development. We would also like a more specific discussion on how to create a system of charging to assess and capitalise on the damage suffered by the citizen. After all, it is different whether you have been deprived of home help or disabled car. Finally, we also hear the Minister say that the Minister will take a look at this matter through a review of the adult provisions of the Services Act. Here it will be exciting to get closer to what solutions it is about and what pace the work gets. So, on the whole, we think that this is an interesting proposal and we believe that action should be taken. And if that action can get some speed, we will be very satisfied in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194737	Thanks to the alternative. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194744	Thank you to the rapporteur. I find it a little difficult to see whether it was a yes or a no or a maybe, and we are working on it in committee or whether it was a: we will look at it when we come to a debate on the adult regulations. So perhaps the rapporteur could just clarify this for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194805	It was kind of a maybe. It means a lot to us to clarify some of the things I mentioned in my speech before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194812	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194815	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the alternative: what solutions does the alternative think might be relevant in order to meet the challenges we face in the field of disability, but also in the whole social field, among other things. In relation to the investigations we've been given? I am aware that the rapporteur also attended a conference on legal certainty and listened to the challenges of the participants who were there. So perhaps the Alternative's rapporteur could give some information on what the alternative's solutions could be in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194851	Now it is a very, very big thing to stand and solve here from the platform. In the alternative, we have a concept called slow polices, and that means that when cases become complex and I think that with such resolutions here we often try to find a quick solution to a slightly complex matter we would like to think a little bit about. We'd like to get closer to both the charging system and other things in this. And if you couldn't do it in this hall and in this house, where would you almost do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194930	Thank you to the rapporteur. That brings us to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119194937	I would like to start by saying that I understand that the Minister is making an effort to reduce the criticism of the municipalities and perhaps to defend the municipalities a little or to speak nicely about them. I have a great deal of respect and understanding for this. I am only the rapporteur and I have now been a social rapporteur for six months. I have also been so at times in the past, and I am just very surprised and sorry to see that the social treatment that the municipalities have to provide does not actually go so well. Odense Municipality we all have in mind, where they illegally say: We are now cutting the aid to 20 per cent. of the children and families who are getting help now, gone. You just can't do that! We have what I call a new Tøndersag, where it is difficult to see that the municipality of Tønder lives up to the legislation that is quite, quite clear in such cases. We have made three reforms of this area within a short time in the Folketing. That is why I am very prepared to look at how we can deal with this issue, which the motion for a resolution refers to here. I just find it difficult to see it independently of the next resolution, and I also find it difficult to do so in the open. So I just give a commitment that I would like to work on this and try to find some ways, but I would also like to acknowledge that there is a need for reform of the legislation. This could perhaps actually help to facilitate the work of the municipalities. We have also been very positive, which I think has been extremely positive, working with it during the pool negotiations, where we, nine parties, have agreed to try to see if we could transfer experience from one municipality to other municipalities, so we make some development efforts. I think that is far, far more positive than the fact that we are donating a few million dollars to good things around society. So there are many things that go the right way, but we also need to deal with some other things. I would like to quote from the lawyer, No. 01, February 2015, a year ago. There is a lecturer named John Klausen, who is a lecturer in social law at Aalborg University, and he has also worked with municipal administration. He says in an article: "On average, about a quarter of the cases decided by the Ankestyrelsen in the field of social and employment are being reversed. For decisions under the Social Services Act, more than one in three cases are being reversed. When a case is reversed, it is either directly wrong or is subject to such material errors as to render it invalid. However, before the case comes to the Ankestyrelsen, the municipality has to re-examine and re-examine it, and can therefore repair cases with errors, that is to say only if the municipality maintains the decision that the complaint goes further. Therefore, there is reason to assume that there are at least as many wrong and wrong cases among those that are not brought to justice, says John Klausen, who also points out that the number of cases overturned is an average. As rapporteur, I too, during this autumn period, have been visited by virtually all organisations in the social field. This is the common theme for all of them, so I'm ready to look at how to do something here. And I very much regret that I have to say this about the elected body called the municipalities, and I would also like to appeal here to all of us in our own parties to make our municipal councillors very aware of this issue here, so that we also get that part of our democracy to focus on this type of issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195347	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195351	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge Mrs Marianne Jelved's insights. I have seen their expression in these cases, when we have been sitting together, also in relation to the debate on legal certainty in the administration of the Lawyers' Council. So I had a great hope that the rapporteur here today would support these motions for resolutions that we are tabling. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's views: what opportunities does the rapporteur see for us to change in this area so that we can ensure the legal certainty of citizens and that they receive the treatment and assistance they need under the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195449	In other words, I do not wish to deny that some of the problem may lie in the fact that the legislation is complex and that the employees who sit with it in the municipalities are not well enough trained. I mean, there may be other things that we should also focus on. I have been brought to the attention of the positive experience of the task force which has been set up and which helps municipalities, which then have to ask for it themselves, for example. Tønder Municipality, and how big a change is happening in the municipality. So the development of the work of the municipalities seems to me to be part of the solution I say: part of it may also be that a revision of the legislation itself can be a part of the solution, and in this context we can also address these issues. Then I said in my introduction that I find it difficult to distinguish this motion for a resolution from the next motion for a resolution on suspensive effect. I am prepared to work on this in such a way as to ensure the best possible legal position for citizens. And I just think there's more grip to be taken at once. It may well be that we should also set up a compensation scheme, which I do not reject, because we also have examples where people themselves have laid out in order to get the help that has been necessary because of their disability. But it is also a little part of the suspensive effect that we will be discussing in the debate on the next resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195613	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195625	Yes, the suspensive effect on citizens who have not improved their ability to function is what the next resolution is about. These are two very different proposals. My hope is that it will not end as in the past; in the past we should also have a debate, and then it just did not go as it should be, because there were some challenges in relation to the previous government's legislative proposals in this area, among others. in relation to legal certainty. So my concern is that we have been talking in here for a lot of years about this area, but that there has just been no action. That is why the rapporteur could perhaps give me his word that, at least in this matter, action is being taken for the benefit of citizens' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195716	My efforts are to secure the legal position of the citizens, and that is what this resolution is about for me, more than the previous one because we are at a serious core here. I just don't want to stand here and promise in concrete terms that there will be that and that sort of solution. We need to sit down and work on it, so I can see if this is to the left of the line that gives suspensive effect... if it could be understood that it is not mixed together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195754	Thank you. And there is one more for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195759	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentioned that perhaps one of the reasons for the municipal act was that the legislation has become so complex. Does the rapporteur also believe that this may be the reason why we politicians also find it difficult to navigate this, in other words that the legislation has become so complex that we soon do not know where to regulate and where to review and where to make reforms and where not to? Because, in relation to what the rapporteur said about his first six months as a social rapporteur, I share the fact that it has been somewhat surprised at how many mistakes, both consciously and unconsciously, are going on in the municipalities. But it's as if we're having a hard time grasping it from in here, too. Does the rapporteur think that legislation has also become too complex for us politicians to handle and navigate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195849	I certainly cannot reject that, but I would also like to say that I think that in every way we lack the opportunity to make representations to the municipalities, what is right and what is wrong. It is provocative for me to experience that it seems to have no consequences for the municipalities, and that is why I am interested in finding out: Can we do something here, can we organise things in a way that we have not really thought through yet, but which we can trace into? Because in the circle we are talking about here, we have got to know each other during the wagering pool negotiations, and we have a focus, I think, on roughly the same elements. Why should we not give it a chance and then do so at the same time as reforming the legislation itself? You have to see these two things together, as I see it. At least it's hard to separate them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195950	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119195951	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's frustration, and I also share the rapporteur's view that we need to look more closely at this in a helicopter perspective and try to look at it together. I also fear that it just stays at the talking; that we have to secure something and maybe look at something again later, but then it never gets any further. That is why I think it is liberating when we get a concrete resolution where we can move and where we can see something that improves the conditions for citizens very concretely. However, I recognise the rapporteur's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200027-2	Yes, but a resolution is not a legal basis, it is a direction, it is a problem formulation in which some ideas are then given on how to deal with those problems. I recognise those ideas and I recognise the intentions behind it, but I just cannot say that this is exactly the way we are doing it here and now. However, in my view, we should not stop having this discussion until we have found a way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200057	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200104	If you are looking for help in our social system, you need the right help and what you are entitled to. It is a key principle that the decision on the aid to be given should be based on a concrete assessment of the individual needs of the individual citizen. Unfortunately, it is a very real problem that this does not always happen and that legal certainty in the public meeting with the public administration is under pressure. There can be many good reasons for this and therefore many solutions to it. The best way to achieve proper treatment for citizens is to ensure that the Services Act is clear so that the risk of misassessments is reduced. This should be a clear ambition if the adult provisions of the Services Act are to be revised. Another way to ensure proper treatment for citizens is by giving municipal case managers the skills and methods necessary to assess citizens' needs. For example, it has. It has been shown that the adult assessment method can be a good tool, but there might also be a need to look at more skills development. A third way is that municipal budgets allow municipalities to employ a sufficient number of case managers so that they can deal properly with matters with the involvement of citizens and that the municipalities are not pushed so hard financially, for example. in the case of the re-priority contribution, they establish quality standards that are at odds with the law when individual needs are not taken into account. In fact, I believe that most municipal case managers have an ambition to make the right assessments and to give citizens the help they need, but that there is a municipal economy that limits. Another thing is that the length of proceedings in the complaint system must be so short that the citizen does not get caught up and so the municipalities have no incentive to make incorrect decisions. Fortunately, there has recently been a positive development in the duration of the proceedings of the Ankestyrelsen. If it can be further reduced, it will also affect the decisions of the municipalities in relation to their being taken as best they can. In the SF, we agree with the objective of making quick and correct decisions and increasing citizens' legal certainty. We share the ambition to create incentive structures that benefit citizens more, and we want to help find ways of doing this. We have among other things. a motion for a resolution on the suspension of effect. It is a fine principle of legal certainty that citizens who are unduly burdened with expenditure are compensated for it. The possibility of covering expenditure retroactively already exists in the case of cash benefits. By extending it to cover also non-economic benefits, it becomes a little bit difficult to see how to make it work out who should have them and how it should be calculated. It is not clear from the motion for a resolution in which situations financial compensation is to be granted. Home help has been mentioned, but who is the target group? What specific provisions of the Services Act will be covered by financial compensation? If so, it should be an exhaustive summary. How much compensation must be paid, etc. etc.? In the SF we want to help find solutions to the problem that we agree to exist. The proposal before us contains some uncertainties which I hope we can continue to work on in committee, and perhaps there could also be a few more options in that discussion. Other options could be e.g.: the fact that it was working to obtain time limits for the proceedings in cases referred back to it and that compensation was introduced if the municipality did not implement the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen immediately. Unfortunately, that is also a problem. So, in the SF, we would like to be involved in further work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200511	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200516	I am pleased that the SF will be involved in further work on the proposal. For the superior in this proposal is simply about whether we think it is fair that, as a citizen, you get financial compensation as a Band-Aid on the wound when you have been unjustly deprived of help. That's the superior. All the other things are something you can find out when you are sitting on a committee and as it says here: "The Danish Parliament is instructing the government by June 2016 to submit the necessary legislative proposals or make the necessary changes to administrative regulations with the aim of paying compensation to citizens in cases where the Ankestyrelsen...· The things the rapporteur wonders about are so some things that you always find out afterwards. You cannot write everything into a motion for a resolution, you can just have some general things. After all, as the authors of the motion for a resolution, we do not have an entire body of officials in our backs who can sit and prepare it for us. But it has a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200629	Well, I totally understand that reality is the same. I just think that there are basically some confusions about the target group and that about calculating it. In fact, it is a little difficult to say when compensation has been made, for example. the home help that a citizen has not received. Because you'll never be able to give it back home help. Well, the needs of the citizen have still not been met. So there are some things about how to actually pay it and what would be reasonable. At one point I also thought that another model might be to create a fund, so that, as it were, there is a consequence if the municipality makes wrong decisions, that is to say that the municipalities have to pay into a fund which will then benefit the citizens, as this resolution deals with, namely those who are at risk. This is not an area that is already a priority in our economy, so it could be another way to go. But, as I said, there are many ways to go about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200737	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200739	That's exactly why the Ankestyrelsen has to be in relation to this compensation. After all, people sit and decide these things every day in all sorts of different areas. That is not something we can go down in detail every time we make a proposal. This is something to be found out in the future, also in terms of how it can be done in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200804	There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119200815	Thank you. While the last resolution may have been such a little smaller, it is quite comprehensive and thank you for having this debate here today. I really think there have been many interesting views on the field. I sense very, very clearly in many disability organisations that there is this basic distrust of the municipal system, and I do not think that is limited to disability organisations. I believe that this applies more broadly in the social field, in other words a fundamental mistrust of the way in which local authorities decide. It is really worrying, it is quite serious, and it is something that we politicians really need to think about how we can get rid of it. Because one should have fundamental security and confidence in such a municipal system. We agree that too many wrong decisions are being taken, and it would not in itself be such a big problem if we were to cut down the processing times in the Ankestyrelsen. We are already well on the way to that, as the Minister has also mentioned. You can still get away with an important piece. However, everything else is going to minimize the problem of wrong decisions being made because they will then be reversed more quickly. And we think it's worth doing everything we can to work towards bringing down these processing times in the Ankestyrelsen. Then it is true that we must, of course, also focus on how to make the right decisions in the first place. There we can, for example. Look at the legislative complex there is. Is that simply too hard to understand? Is there too much confusion? I think it might be interesting to try to clean up the mess. We can also look at how we can strengthen the opportunities for social workers to make right decisions. It may be about looking at their education, whether there is something that needs to be strengthened there. It may also be about looking at their work pressures, whether they are too pressured to make many decisions. I think that is an essential element too. We have just talked about this here with the Herning model, and if I haven't misunderstood it completely, it's about exactly that. So that way we think there are several different parameters that you can change to get rid of this problem that we acknowledge is there. I may have some concerns about how to value this compensation. There has also been a little debate on this today. I can also have a fear of what it will mean for society economically if this principle spreads to many other areas. Because there are also areas today, for example. The environment or anything else where you apply for permission, perhaps to establish something. You may be denied it, and it may be that you anchor it and end up getting a permit. So, for example, do you have to... as a company is compensated for the period during which this company could not be built? I know it's another example, but it's more to say that I can be in doubt if this can spread. We in the Conservative People's Party cannot see through the economic consequences of this resolution, and that is why we do not support it, although we are incredibly in agreement that the breach of trust that we sense is there must be dealt with. We must, among other things. do by looking at the processing times in the Ankestyrelsen, but also by looking at how we ensure that more real decisions are made in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201150	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201201	Thank you. Thank you for the debate and thank you to the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance, which also supports this and supports the proposal. Thank you, too, for the positive statements that the Danish Parliament is well aware that there are challenges in this area. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is reasonable for citizens who are successful in a complaint against the municipality to be granted compensation. Every day the municipalities make decisions under the Social Services Act on matters relating to the elderly and vulnerable citizens, and this can be done, for example. in cases of home help, personal care and the like, and in a number of cases, the decision means that the citizen loses all or part of a good that the citizen has had so far. It can, for example, be done. be that the citizen has been given home help for 6 hours a week, but that the municipality now decides to reduce the home help to e.g. half of it. The municipality must decide on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the citizen's situation on the basis of the legislation in force. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples of this not always happening. I myself remember a case from a municipality where a ceiling had been set on the day of relief for parents with a disabled child. You cannot set such a ceiling as a municipality, because then you do not make the individual assessment. The reality is that the municipality's economy can be a factor affecting the decision when the municipality has to have the economy to hang together. In many municipalities decisions are made that are at odds with the law, and the municipality may also have an interest in testing the legal framework, and we have seen this in several areas, not only in the field of disability, but also in children's cases. We have also seen it in connection with sickness benefits. If the citizen is not in agreement with or satisfied with the municipal decision, the citizen may appeal against the decision to the municipality, where the matter is reviewed, and if the municipality maintains its decision, the municipality will forward the complaint and the file to the Ankestyrelsen, which will then deal with the matter. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is reasonable for the citizen to be granted compensation in cases where the Ankestyrelsen agrees with the citizen's complaint, since during that period the citizen has had to suffer from the municipality's wrong decision and has had to do without the help of the municipality. If, for example, the citizen's complaint concerns reduced home help by 4 hours a week, the citizen has endured this deterioration while the complaint has been pending and if the whole process of complaint has lasted for 10 months, then that help has been lacking, which we believe should trigger a cash compensation. The authority that has made the wrong decision must bear the compensation and the compensation must serve two purposes: firstly, it must be a plaster on the wound to the citizen in relation to the good that the citizen has not had access to and lacked during the appeal period; secondly, it must be a signal to the municipality to be more careful in making the right decision for the first time. A compensation scheme we believe will help create an economic incentive so that the municipality makes the right decision in the first place. The compensation must not, of course, replace any higher compensation which would otherwise be awarded to the complainant. The amount of compensation must also be proportionate to the public's lack of good and the time the citizen has lacked the good and must be measured by the Ankestyrelsen when final decision is taken on the matter. Precisely in relation to this, the Lawyers' Council in the 2015 report, which I previously read out about legal certainty in the administration, has written: "I quote: "Even though the citizen is successful in his complaint after 10-12 months of proceedings in the appeal body, the citizen typically only obtains financial compensation in the form of compensation if the citizen can prove a financial loss. For example, social clients can hardly ever do so simply because they cannot afford to pay for similar private help. ▪ We in the Danish People's Party think this is unfair. And we are convinced that such a compensation scheme in these complaints will increase the incentive for municipalities to make a faster and effective decision, including the right decision, and that it will benefit citizens' legal certainty. A number of things have now been discussed in today's debate, and it is of course no secret that this area, as the disability rapporteur, has been interested in me since 2011, when I was elected to the Folketing, and that is also why I continue to make these motions for resolutions, because it is about something as important as the fact that the citizens can count on us politicians and that we are fighting their case when we see there are absurdities. Now it has been said that the processing times of the Ankestyrelsen are decreasing, but it has also just been said that it was in Avisen.dk that they will be increased if no measures are taken in relation to the relocation of state jobs, and that would certainly be inappropriate. Because I fully agree that the processing times must be reduced, and that was also something we worked on under the previous government, where we were just given additional funds to have the deadlines set by the Ankestyrelsen. However, we must always bear in mind that every time an average is said, we must remember that the citizen may have had the complaint going on for several years. It is so that even if the matter is referred back and forth to the municipality, it is going back and forth, so the average figure is not that one can say that the case has only lasted four months, because often they last much, much longer. I would like to thank you for this debate today and for the positive statements. If nothing else, I hope that we can meet over a joint report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201829	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201833	I was somewhat interested in the rapporteur's presentation of the matter when it was now outlined here by such a quite long praise of the proposal. I would just like to ask: has the rapporteur been able to calculate what, if so, it could be for revenue we are talking about, which the public authorities have to provide?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201858	Now it is the case that when a municipality has granted home help, it has, you might say, searched a service which then runs. It would be reasonable for the citizen to be able to receive compensation in proportion to the amount saved by the municipality in the time when the service is not running, I think. And I would like to say that the municipality has, of course, included in its budget the citizens who have been searched for these services. It's just to prevent the municipalities from running these financial cases in the Ankestyrelsen. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201939	Has the Danish People's Party taken this into account in the Finance Act to which the Danish People's Party has contributed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119201953	Now the rapporteur is aware that I am standing here as rapporteur on disability, not as rapporteur on finance, but I can tell you that our financial rapporteur regularly and often has a talk with our disability rapporteur because the disability rapporteur has a lot of good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202012	Thank you to the rapporteur. Excuse me, sir. There's also a brief comment from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202022	Yes, yes, sir. Orla Hav is therefore pointing to a problem, and that is the funding. The Danish People's Party is what is called a support party for the government, and has among other things. Just signed a finance agreement with the government. There it would have been obvious to mention that you made this proposal and would have some money to implement it because without money it would be a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202048	Well, we have a citizen who is searched for help that the municipality has included in its budget. Then you want to put down the aid that is included in the municipal budget, you have to count on it to be. We know, of course, that according to the number of people with disabilities and also the number of older people, local authorities are being given funding in relation to equalisation. So I simply do not see that there should be any challenges with regard to the economic part, because the aid has been granted. This is about the municipality saving in the period, and they've actually taken that saving from the citizen. So I do not see that there should be any challenges in relation to that, except that the municipality will not get that saving anyway, if it is actually going to give the money, a cash amount, back to the citizen, who has lost some help and is therefore entitled to compensation. That's only fair. Then I understand that there are many here today who want a different way, rather than recognising that we are actually making some very good motions for resolutions to find some solutions. I think that we should just bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202159	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202200	It may then be that I speak to KL more than Mrs Karina Adsbøl does, and I can guarantee as securely as Amen in the church that the municipalities will demand compensation for this. Now the rapporteur is talking about the inclusion of the individual citizen in the budget, but that is not the way it is going. It is in this way that some citizens will need more help, some will need less help, and sometimes the municipality's estimate of who needs less help is wrong, or the municipality does not grant any more help to anyone who should have had it. But it is not the case that aid is only granted once a year, when aid is set up or reduced, because then we would have to wait until we reached 1 January and a new budget year to put a citizen in aid that was entitled to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202245	I have to say, I find it a little comical. I can say here from the platform: how much does it cost to comply with the legislation we have adopted in this House? We can have a discussion on that. That's what this is about. How much does it cost to comply with the legislation we have adopted in this House?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202309	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202327	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202350	Motion for a resolution B 36 proposes that the government should put forward a legislative proposal which gives suspensory effect in appeals to citizens with disabilities who have been deprived of or reduced in aid without the person concerned having improved his or her ability to function. A suspensive effect shall serve two purposes after the motion for a resolution. First of all, the citizen must be given the assistance which the municipality has refused until a decision has been taken by the Ankestyrelsen. Secondly, the scheme must create an economic incentive for municipalities to make the right decision for the first time. The motion for a resolution and the purpose behind it have a number of common features with the motion for a resolution on the compensation system which we have just considered. The general views of the government therefore largely correspond to the views I expressed in relation to the previous motion for a resolution, B-35. We agree that all citizens must have the help they are entitled to under the law and that they must have the right decision on aid in the first place. However, suspensive effect will mean that aid will be provided during the period of appeal, also in the appeals cases where the Ankestyrelsen arrives that the municipality's decision is correct, and that is all else the same in about two thirds of the complaints under the Service Act. With suspensive effect as proposed, a number of citizens will thus have access to benefits to which they do not appear to be entitled, and that seems to me to be less reasonable. This will probably also result in considerable additional public expenditure, and at the same time it may increase the number of complaints, and we in the government therefore do not think it would be appropriate for a complaint to be made to the Ankestyrelsen's suspensive effect as a general rule if the complaint concerns citizens with disabilities who have been deprived of or reduced assistance, as proposed. Indeed, in certain cases where the decision may have a particularly serious impact on the citizen, there is already the possibility of granting suspensory effect to the complaint. In accordance with Article 72 of the Law on legal certainty, the Board of Appeal may, on application, attach a complaint against decisions on settlement offers to adult suspensive effect, and complaints about decisions on placement of children and young people have as a starting point suspensory effect. In addition, a municipality itself or the Ankestyrelsen may, by way of exception, grant a specific appeal suspensory effect if it has far-reaching consequences which are not or are only difficult to recover. The Board of Appeal may also deal with a complaint as a matter of urgency if the Board considers that it is necessary. If a case concerns additional costs or other monetary benefits under the Services Act, the citizen receives the benefit retroactively, if the Ankestyrelsen agrees with the citizen. Finally, it should be borne in mind that the starting point is not that the municipalities suddenly stop all aid to a citizen who has received considerable help so far. Often it will be the case that aid is reduced or changed to another type of aid, so that the citizen continues to receive help, even during the period of complaint. Nor do I believe that a suspensive effect will lead to more real decisions by the municipalities. As I said earlier in connection with B 35 on a compensation scheme, I was somewhat fundamentally opposed to the premise which also seems to be behind B 36, namely that the municipalities make decisions in breach of the law in a fundamental and very conscious manner, in order to save aid during a period of complaint and that there is a need to remove an economic incentive to such behaviour. I still believe that the municipalities have basically the will to shoulder their responsibilities for compliance with the law, and I therefore do not believe that a rule of suspensive effect will affect the decisions of the municipalities in a factual manner. I would repeat that it is important that we in the Folketing take responsibility for the fact that the legislation is understandable to both citizens and municipalities and that it is designed in a way that allows it to be properly administered. That is why, as I have said, the government has decided to start this important work, and I am very, very pleased with the statements that actually come from a great many of the parties in the Danish Parliament, that we are prepared to be here in working clothes. We have started work on a reform of the Services Act's adult regulations, and I have put forward a broad cooperation, among other things. I am also prepared to discuss all good proposals, including proposals for suspensive effects in individual areas, at an early stage. However, it is important to stress that there is also an economic framework to be respected. So I hope that in this way we will jointly be able to find a comprehensive solution for the benefit of citizens who need help under the Services Act. I believe that this is the only right, the only sensible and the only viable way of achieving clarity in the legislation, that we continue to support the municipalities in being able to make correct decisions on the basis of professional and economic considerations and on the basis of the needs of the individual, and that we are also continuing and forward-looking to ensure that complaints are dealt with quickly. So, against this background, the government will not support motion for a resolution B 36.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202938	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119202943	Thank you. As the Minister will be aware, as rapporteur, I have previously asked for an inventory of the costs involved. There I have received the answer that it is not possible to make a precise statement of the additional costs by introducing a right of suspensory effect in appeals cases where citizens have not improved their life situation, including their ability to function. But I would like to reverse it a little, because how much does it cost not to help people with disabilities? What's the cost of not doing it? What does it cost if you do not rehabit the disabled car that the citizen needs to drive to work? How much does it cost if the citizen does not get the right wheelchair so that he is simply hospitalized with pressure wounds? How much is it? I think you just have to be careful doing this up black and white, because it's not black and white. It is worthwhile to make an effort in the past. It may be that that investment costs here and now, but in the longer term it is well earned. I just think it's important to have this in mind when it comes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203052	I would like to thank the rapporteur for that question or for that statement of opinion, because it is quite correct to think that it is not just black or white. I think that was also clearly discussed in connection with the previous motion for a resolution, where the rapporteur himself is a little challenged in the discussion about what it would cost to create a completely new compensation system. We can count on that, and I think it will be very expensive. This thing with suspensive effect: how much is it? Because it is not only crowns and ears that we are talking about; it is absolutely true that it is also human resources. That is why I would like to appeal again to the rapporteur's work and knowledge in this area in order to make a constructive contribution to the work that lies ahead of us. It's gonna be hard, and it's gonna be hard. However, I believe that we have an enormous obligation to ensure that the adult provisions of the Services Act receive the reform or review that I and, fortunately, many other social rapporteurs also confirm is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203156	Yes, and just to make it clear, the motion for a resolution deals with the suspensive effect of complaints on citizens who have not improved their ability to function. This means that it is stationary: you cannot suddenly walk if you are paralyzed, and if you have sclerosis, you do not get well either; if you have a respirator, it is highly likely that you always have it because of your ALS. I just think that is important to bear in mind when talking about this, and particularly in relation to the economic aspect. I don't know if the minister remembers that KL made a call called "Invest before it happens." Now you wanted to stop thinking silo. I just think that there is no action in this area. We've talked too much, we need some action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203248	This is also the reason why the government has resigned, just before we went on Christmas holidays, that we are resuming the work that the previous government had to abandon. The previous government had to abandon it, among other things. because the Danish People's Party chose to say: this is simply not good enough. There you have to go and it is again an appeal to the Danish People's Party to pull in the work clothes; there you have to go constructively into the negotiations. With regard to whether or not one's situation is stationary, that is just not what the motion for a resolution makes clear. It is important, and I would like to repeat it, that I am prepared to discuss all good proposals, including proposals for suspensive effects in individual areas, but that we also have to act financially responsibly here. There is an economic framework that must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203342	The next question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203345	Thank you. The Minister mentions that there are two thirds of the decisions which are correct, i.e. where, if there had been suspensive effect, citizens would be granted something to which they were actually not entitled during that period. In the same way, it is known that in one third of cases, if there is no suspensive effect, the citizens will be deprived of something to which they were actually entitled. Does the Minister think it would be better, on the one hand, to give in two thirds of cases something to which the citizen is not entitled, than to deprive the citizen of something to which he was actually entitled in one third of cases? Because that is the dilemma we are faced with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203428	I would like to take a different view of this. Because in the ideal world we do not have a discussion on such a large number of complaints. That is why I think we have a rather important task ahead of us to ensure that this legislation is understandable and that we are aware of what we are entitled to do, but that the case workers are also aware of how they allocate and assess specifically and individually to those citizens who need help under the Services Act. I think that is the first point. Then you can have a technical discussion about whether it is good at two thirds and one third, but allow me to take the first angle which I think is the most important in relation to the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203513	Thank you. I also recognise that there is a need to go deeper than an individual motion for a resolution, which is now before us, but I do believe that, when we have to take a position on this resolution, we have to consider that as long as there is no suspensive effect, there are one third of cases where citizens are deprived of something that they are actually entitled to. I find that difficult to overlook and postpone to some negotiations at a later time when we may or may not be looking at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203546	At first glance, that sounds very enticing, but a good advice to the rapporteur would be: remember what the suspensive effect would then result. Then the suspensive effect everything else equal will mean that it will then just be closest to pr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. What kind of complaint signal do we send by assigning suspensive effect to all cases? I do not think that is the right way to go. The ambition is not to get any more complaints. The ambition is to have clear legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203630	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203640	For the Social Democratic Party, it is essential that people with disabilities have proper conditions and can obtain assistance and assistance in relation to their disability. Fortunately, there are a number of options for this. We would like this aid to be measured in a constructive and trusting interaction between the citizen and the community. There are, unfortunately, many examples of this not to exist, but our objective is now that, as citizens and citizens' representatives, we should set society in a good place to live, even if we have a disability. We are deeply concerned about further red tape in cooperation between citizens and communities/municipalities. The fact is that if this proposal is voted through, we need to use additional resources to assess estimates and processes, and we would actually rather spend those resources on a direct service to citizens. We recognise that the resolution addresses major problems in the interaction between citizens and communities, and that is why it is also important and right that we should have an opportunity, jointly and together with the Minister, to carry out a proper review in connection with the review of the adult provisions of the Services Act, and we are prepared to play an active and constructive role in resolving this problem, so that we can get the toads out of the practice that can be observed in this area. Against this background, therefore, we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us, but we are happy to take part in the discussions on the revision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203830	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203835	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that this is a re-submission of an earlier motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. At that time, on 27 June 2014, a joint report was submitted to the Social Affairs Committee because a unanimous Social Committee wanted action in this area. Does the rapporteur accept that in this respect little has happened since that report was submitted to the Parliamentary Social Committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203910	Nah, I heard the Minister explain that the former Minister for Social Affairs tried to get through some arrangements with regard to a revision of the adult regulations, which certainly was not met by a Danish People's Party that would help constructively to get those solutions through. Now we have given each other hands on the Social Democrats, in any case, to the current minister, on the fact that we would like to help find constructive solutions in which we take care of people who are in the situation that they have reduced functional abilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119203945	I am sorry to say this, but it is a direct lie when the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party has not made any constructive proposals. We proposed mandatory beliefs and legislative declarations, we went constructively into the work and made some very good suggestions, among others. some of those we are discussing today. So I simply do not accept that we did not. What it was all about was, after all, the legal challenges faced by citizens, and therefore DF said that if that proposal was not for the benefit of citizens, we could not be involved. But if the rest of you thought it was so good, you could have just passed it... you'd have had a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204026	I am sorry for the rapporteur's language and for her being affected by this. It is my experience that the Danish People's Party was not very constructive in the negotiations that took place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204042	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204046	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that there is a problem of legal certainty. After all, we have just discussed another motion for a resolution on the statements made by the rapporteur and also by the Minister, and then there is a situation for the citizen who finds that, contrary to the law, a benefit is being deprived of its rightful place. There's nothing you can do about it. It has an urgent effect. If, on the other hand, you win the case at some point, you will not get any compensation at all. In other words, anyone who illegally deprives the citizen of a service to which the citizen is entitled will have no consequences, but when that citizen wins the case, there is no form of compensation. Is that not a legal problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204139	Yes, we recognize that this is a major problem. That is also why we want to help find solutions for the benefit of citizens so that they do not get squeezed into this system, because there are examples of this. That is what I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech. That is why we recognise that there is a problem complex that we need to look at, and we are happy to contribute to this in the light of the commitments made by the Minister from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204207	In a particular type of case, a municipality in the western part of Copenhagen has mistreated between 60% and 70%. of the cases here quite recently. It may be because the law is insanely complicated. I don't think so. If we now succeed in obtaining a majority in order to simplify the legislation, then the problem of legal certainty for citizens has been solved if it is only 35%. by citizens who are wrongly deprived of a benefit to which they are entitled?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204243	In my optics, any erroneous decision is a problem in itself. I do not think we can set a lower limit on what tolerance is, because we need to know that there is a person who is deeply dependent on us having a well-functioning community. On the other hand, the well-functioning community also has to make rules that are to be complied with, and not least the Folketing has an obligation to be involved. We are therefore happy to be involved in this work, but we should also be aware that this is a difficult area, which is based to some extent on estimates made by the caseworker. And, of course, we must also be sure that the people we are asking to exercise that discretion also have the necessary qualifications to do so. So there are many sources of error, but we are therefore looking for a system where citizens can be served by the services provided by the Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204344	Thank you to the rapporteur and I will pass on the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the Left. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204352	Thank you very much, President. I will continue in the highly-voted style by quoting the Constitution, which we have all signed when we were elected to parliament. That's section 63. 1: The courts shall be entitled to rule on any question concerning the limits of the authority. However, anyone who wishes to raise such a question cannot, by bringing the matter before the courts, evade the order of the authorities. ▪ What does that mean in plain English? This means that if an authority, e.g. a municipality, make a decision, then you have the opportunity to go to the courts to check whether that decision was correct. But the fact that you do so does not mean that there will be suspensive effect. So you have to follow the decision, regardless of whether you bring it before the courts. In various areas, there are now some boards, but that does not make the matter any different. Set-up effect is in Danish law the absolute exception. Only in the case of something that cannot be restored shall there be suspensive effect. For example, expropriation: you expropriate a house because you have to build a motorway. The house will be demolished, the highway will be built, and the citizen will agree that the expropriation was illegal. It won't do much good when the house is gone and the highway is built. Therefore, suspensive effects are attributed to such cases. But otherwise it is an absolute exception to impose suspensive effect, and why so? Well, the constitutional fathers have thought about this, for if you could train a decision by bringing it before the Ankestyrelsen or the courts, you would of course do so. We must be very careful in this matter, because we are in the process of fundamentally changing our entire system, and this will lead to an explosion in the number of complaints in this area. And if we do that in this area, what I hope we do not do, then of course it will spread to all sorts of other areas. Then all sorts of others will ask why it should only apply there. Why should this not also apply to other areas where a municipality makes a decision which may subsequently turn out to be illegal? Why should it not also have suspensive effect? The same can be said about the case of financial compensation from before. It will also be a new break, which will result in an explosion in the number of complaints. The easy thing in politics is to point to problems, and the Danish People's Party does, and you point to a real problem. The difficult thing in politics is to make solutions, and this is not a solution. At any rate, this is a solution which will have so great side effects that it will far exceed the positive side of the proposal. Let me say that it is, of course, a pity when a municipality makes a wrong decision, because there is a citizen on the other end that it is going to suffer. However, if this resolution were adopted, it would also mean that in the two thirds of cases, which are not reversed by the Ankestyrelsen, citizens will be able to train a decision. And I wonder whether citizens will in future complain, no matter how justified a decision may be. For just the fact that one complains will mean that one can postpone the municipality's decision being implemented. And why should the suspensive effect not actually be used? What if you bring the decision of the Ankestyrelsen to the courts? Why, then, should there not be suspensive effect there? I have great sympathy for the fact that the Danish People's Party would like to solve the problems in this area. So the solution you're pointing to is just wrong. There is suspensive effect in cases where it will have a very, very intrusive meaning and where it would be devastating if no suspensive effect were attributed. And as the Minister has promised, we are willing to see whether this area can be extended slightly so that it can be narrowed down to that. However, it is not just generally possible to give suspensive effect in all cases. The Danish People's Party will then say: well, we have said that it is only where there is talk of citizens with disabilities having not improved their ability to function. And that is what you have to fight about, i.e. whether or not you have improved your ability to function. So the proposal will result in an explosion in the number of cases in the Ankestyrelsen and longer processing times and an explosion in public expenditure. And there are some parties, including the Danish People's Party, that are usually not so happy about that. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal. It is not because we do not sympathize with the problem raised by the Danish People's Party, but because we believe that the solution pointed out is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204847	Thank you. For the time being, a single person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204852	I would like to ask the rapporteur how many citizens the rapporteur believes can afford to pay a lawyer to run their case. I don't think most people can afford that. I just want to know if the rapporteur has read the recommendations of the Lawyer's Board of Justice in the administration. After all, you are making a number of suggestions to improve this area: the Attorney General's Board recommends that the Board of Appeal should have both the right and the duty to decide within a short period of time whether a complaint should be given suspensory effect. The rapporteur is now also a little bit in the field of law. Does the rapporteur consider the recommendations of the Council of Lawyers to be bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119204946	Yes, the rapporteur is a lawyer. You could say that's a little bit in law; it can't be much more in law. I'm not sure I fully understood the preliminary question of how many people could afford a lawyer. Well, you don't need a lawyer to go to Ankestyrelsen. You can write the complaint yourself. So there's no demand for a lawyer. It may be a good idea to adopt a lawyer, because then the chance of success will often be greater, but there is no demand for it. Moreover, there are also a lot of associations which would certainly help to provide legal advice. A number of associations do, and I think that is very sensible. Among other things, there are: Some municipalities have been sued with the help of the trade union 3F because some members had not received the dyslexic education they were entitled to. So those options are there. But I am not quite sure that I understood where the questioner was going.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205046	I'm sorry if I was saying a little wrong. My point was simply to say that many citizens almost feel that a lawyer is needed in these cases compared to what the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech. But I did not get an answer to my second question: does the rapporteur think that the recommendations made by the Council of Lawyers are bad? In other words, the task of the Lawyers' Council is to draw attention to matters of law and public administration which do not sufficiently satisfy legal certainty. And they have made a number of good recommendations to us politicians. Does the rapporteur think they are bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205130	No, but as I said in my speech and as the Minister also said, there may well be a need to look at whether the area of suspensive effect should be extended. However, the enlargement proposed by the Danish People's Party is not one to which the Council of Lawyers is referring. And that would be something that would have spill-over effect in a large number of other areas, and it would be a complete break with our entire legal system and with our constitution, which is such that if the municipality makes a decision, one cannot train that decision as a citizen by going to the courts and having it postponed until the courts or the Ankestyrelsen have finished dealing with the matter. Because if that were the case, everyone would do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205207	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205217	I think it is obvious, also in the light of the discussion that has taken place this evening, that we need to change the legislation so that citizens are better protected from being affected by errors in the municipal proceedings. I think it is quite untenable that we have a situation in which a citizen can be unduly denied or reduced the aid and support to which he or she is entitled under the law can appeal, can win the case and then have to find that this had no consequence for the whole of the long period of proceedings during which the citizen concerned did not have the support that the citizen was entitled to. I also think there is a lack of proportion when you look at what the consequences are for the citizen and the municipality in these cases. For the citizen, a wrong case, a wrong decision, can have a crucial impact on the individual's life. The individual's life can almost collapse. It can have consequences in relation to your job opportunities, it can have consequences in terms of getting out of your home, it can hurt your family life hard, etc. etc. However, for the municipality, an erroneous decision means only one thing, namely that the municipality saves money throughout the long period when the citizen must be deprived of support and assistance which the citizen was actually entitled to under the law. I think most people will be able to see that this is obviously unfair, and that is why we need to change the law so that we can have better legal certainty. It simply must not be the citizen who is left with the loss when it turns out that it is the municipality that has violated the law. And it must not be the case that municipalities can actually make money by managing in violation of the law. I'm not gonna cut every town over a cliff. That would be a far too trivial approach. I noticed that rapporteurs from other parties said that we should also have respect for the elected representatives in the municipalities. I agree with that, but on the other hand, I would say that when we see time and again that there are municipalities that deny support and help to citizens, which it then turns out that they were actually entitled to, I am actually convinced that one of the reasons for this is that there is a very strong economic incentive in the legislation to constantly test cases, to test the limits of the law over and over again. I therefore think it is obvious that there is a need to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens. I fully agree that it is very clear that the Lawyers' Council in this country is insecure about the way in which the legislation is put together. There is a significant criticism from disability organisations, and I think it points out that a new provision must be introduced to ensure that we have suspensory effect, which means that municipal decisions on the withdrawal of aid which are appealed against by citizens cannot enter into force until there is a decision by the Ankestyrelsen. Like others, I cannot boast of a long tradition of having been a social rapporteur and having taken part in one and the other debate. Then you can get into the situation that you have to read what it was like, and I have carefully read through the debate from the last time that the Danish Parliament dealt with a proposal of this kind. And I have noted that, in fact, all the rapporteurs from all the parties agreed quite clearly that we had a problem here. I shall not be able to say exactly why it has not been resolved in the intervening period; I can only say that it is not enough to understand that we have a problem. There is simply a need to act on this matter. And to me, a majority here in Things has failed to solve a problem that everyone agreed was present. I think it is a very good proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward. There may be some technical details to be discussed afterwards when specific legislation is to be drawn up, but this need not be an obstacle to the adoption of the resolution. Then we have established a principle, and then we will have to discuss the practical implementation of the legislation afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205655	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next to speak is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205704	Thank you. Motion for a resolution B 36 aims to ensure that suspensive effects are given in appeal proceedings for citizens with disabilities who have been deprived of or reduced in aid, even if they have not had an improved capacity to function. As you can see, this will solve more problems. The citizens will not suddenly be left without help while the complaint is being dealt with and the municipalities will be given an incentive to deal with complaints more quickly, as savings will not be possible during the course of the proceedings. The incentive to deny or reduce aid in violation of the law disappears as the municipalities will not be able to achieve savings in the future while a complaint is pending. Furthermore, legal certainty for people with disabilities will be increased, so that the emphasis will be on social legal certainty rather than on the possibility of the municipal system's budgetary management. If the motion for a resolution is adopted here, citizens with reduced functional capacity will no longer have to suffer the fact that their lives are unduly falling apart while waiting for a complaint to be finalised by the Ankestyrelsen. So this is about being on the side of the citizens with the system, and we are. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205824	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119205832	For us, this proposal is a little simpler than the previous one. In the alternative, we think it is unfair that it is possible at all that people with special needs can be deprived of or reduced in their help if they have not improved their ability to function. So we like DF's proposal that there should be suspensory effect in complaints for citizens with special needs who have been deprived of or reduced in help, even if the person concerned has not improved his or her ability to function • that the citizen should keep his or her home help or car for as long as the case is in the Ankestyrelsen. We want to work towards a social policy in which the economic incentive structure always benefits the citizen. Therefore, we must be able to change the situation where the longer the processing time there is in a municipality, the greater the savings are for the municipality, which saves the help for the citizen with special needs in the required time. It is unreasonable for citizens with special needs to be deprived of the help that the case is about while the complaint process is under way. It can actually be a huge interference in the everyday life of a person with special needs. There are, of course, some challenges that need to be resolved in relation to this proposal. For example: We must be able to gear the complaint system to the fact that this law may increase the complaints of people with special needs, who are, of course, in their right to complain about the municipality's decisions. We also need to look at the synergy between this proposal and the previous one. So, of course, there is some work to be done. But I understand that this proposal is a re-submission and that the proposal last time led to a study which, for some reason, stranded. And there I agree with Enhedslisten (English Enhedslisten) I also felt that there was actually agreement that this should be resolved. I have also tried to read it, but it is actually a little foggy for me why it did not succeed then. We would like to add votes to ensure that this time it is possible to ensure suspensive effect in appeals for people with special needs, so that they do not lose their means while their complaint is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119210053	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119210102	I would like to give some examples from the latest organisation with which I have had a meeting. It's the Multiple Sclerosis Society. They employ nine social workers who handle complaints for their members. Over the last five years, they have dealt with between 3,500 and 3,750 cases per year and have received a right in their complaints, with percentages ranging from 70 to 81%. It just says to me that this is simply too much and it can really provoke me quite strongly. At the same time, you are told that the Ankestyrelsen has carried out a practice study in 2015 and among other things. has looked at practices around § 83 and § 85 about personal and practical help and that it arrives at that 40%. of the cases is contrary to rules and practices. That's what the Anke Agency says. 35% There is a lack of clarity and crucial information, and there are particular shortcomings in the aid with regard to the two paragraphs I mentioned just now. The Lawyers' Council is working immediately. They have come up with a release in 2015 called "Rightssecurity in the administration." And when they compare the experiences they have done, but what the Ankestyrelsen has come up with, there is a very large coincidence. So it is two different agents, if I may say so, that achieve the same results. So here we are talking about people whose ability to function is not improved. So what I need is in fact something based on what the Minister concluded with. The Minister concluded by saying that the Minister was prepared to go in and discuss suspensive effect in defined areas or something in that direction. I also need to have some sort of enclosure of what we are doing suspensive effect on. And there is, of course, a sketch for something that could become something, in the resolution we are debating now. If I were to put my own words on, I would say that this could apply in those situations where there is a disability which cannot be improved. A blind person does not suddenly become more sighted, and a sclerosis patient does not suddenly become more functional. It can only go the other way, unfortunately. That is why I think it is crucial that we try to identify it. Now that is the case, I have discovered that in 2007 the Ombudsman made a recommendation, a decision, such a decision must be called, in which he points out that both a subordinate body and a review body can actually give a complaint suspensory effect without it being anywhere in the law. I just think it would be better to legislate, even if you could. But when I see a legislative possibility for me, I see a legislative possibility, for example. may enter into the legal certainty law and make an addition to section 72, which refers to the identification of those who must undoubtedly have suspensory effect. Then you just have to know that, without legislation, you can also make a suspensive effect, that is to say, the review body or the sub-body can do so. So I think there is reason for us to go on this road because there are simply too many statements showing that there are too many mistakes. Then we will have to reform at the same time. Now we have heard so much fresh from the platform that this reform work is going into. I just remember the then Minister for Social Affairs and he also had some other portfolios that I can't remember and list now and how difficult it was. It's really hard, so what we're doing isn't a rose dance. This is going to be difficult, and there are many people who need to give in so that we can achieve some results. However, I just think that the matter deserves us to try to reform and simplify some legislation, and that we are at the same time taking action in this area, which is what B 36 is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119210606	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will pass on the floor to Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119210617	I believe that we are all regularly being approached by citizens who have been put into the system and who do not receive the help they need and are entitled to. One might ask oneself: Why does the problem of wrong decisions arise? Why are citizens already being deprived of aid, regardless of their continuing needs, and how can we ensure that the citizens benefit from the doubt and that the citizen is not taken hostage while the citizen's case is clarified in the complaint system? In May 2014, all parties of the Folketing expressed the view that it was totally unacceptable that people with disabilities should be reduced or deprived of their support, even if their ability to function had not changed and that the problem had to be resolved. The discussion of the motion for a resolution in the Committee on Social Affairs ended with a report by all the parties calling on the Minister to find viable solutions to the problems, but nothing has happened since then, as it were. The argument against the proposal on suspensive effect was, among other things, that it would entail considerable expenditure, and we are hearing that today as an argument, but it has not been possible to get an answer as to what this expenditure would be if it were. In the view of the SF, it is high time that something was done so that the citizens concerned would not be deprived of their opportunities for life in this way, for example. local quality standards are weighted above the individual situation and needs of the citizen. In the event of suspensive effect, the citizens concerned will avoid a period of less or no support while the appeal proceedings are ongoing. Since the last submission of a similar proposal, more evidence has been provided on local authorities' practices, including: from the Lawyer Society, the Disability Organisations and the Ombudsman. Municipalities should be given incentives to ensure good case management and decisions based on the needs of individual citizens. We should work together on this and, if necessary, the SF is open to making a complaint in relation to certain benefits suspensive effect if no other solutions can be found. In the view of the SF, the possible economic consequences have been reduced, among others. due to the much shorter processing time in the Ankestyrelsen. With this proposal, the suspensive effect of complaints will apply if people with a permanent disability are reduced or deprived of their disability compensation altogether. It can, for example, be done. be help in the home, aids, disabled cars or the like to which you have previously been searched, and if this happens without any improvement in your physical or mental capacity. In the SF we also believe that the need for suspensive effect could be found in more areas than in the disability area, but we are positive about taking a step for a target group which is often entirely dependent on adequate support as a prerequisite for a dignified, independent everyday life despite a lasting disability. Set-up effect also means that the municipality's previous individual estimates of the necessary assistance are not contested. It is this aid which must, where appropriate, continue during the appeal proceedings, while at the same time deciding whether the change in the benefit has been dealt with correctly and on an individual basis before any change takes effect on the citizen. So we support the proposal because we have not yet seen any better solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119210954	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119211005	Thank you. In fact, we see this motion for a resolution as by far the most interesting of the four that we are discussing today. In my speech on the previous motion for a resolution, I referred to this crisis of confidence. It is an expression that the Central Disability Council has applied to the situation between citizens and municipalities. It's a crisis of trust that goes deep. They have made a study among citizens with disabilities, and they come up with quite a few interesting conclusions. I will free the Chamber to read it all out; I will just point out a few of them. In general, citizens assess the case-law in a low way on all parameters, and there is a very large gap between the quality assessment of citizens and the case-handling staff. Citizens do not experience that they have an influence on their situation and do not feel that they are being heard when they have contact with the municipality. Then they also point out that the case workers have very low knowledge of their specific disability. After all, this is all a source of distrust, and it is, after all, the mistrust that is making it possible for us to talk about suspensive effect here today. I remember I was still a relatively newly elected member of the Parliament that in August I received the member magazine of the Spastic Society. They had a list of calls for the new social rapporteurs on things that they wanted to address. I remember that one of the points was that the Spastic Society had a direct suspicion that the municipalities deliberately make wrong decisions to be free from the cost of the citizen's benefit during the period of appeal. I thought that was scary reading. You do not just have a suspicion, it is so great that you actually put it in a member's magazine that comes out to all your members. I think that is worth considering. Conservatives have always been open to using suspensive effect as an instrument. In the meantime, when we have discussed it in the past, we have also asked some questions and had some reservations about it. For people with disabilities, it can have completely incalculable consequences if you are mistakenly deprived of aids that are absolutely fundamental to living a life on equal terms with others. There have been these cases of the BPA, which are of course extremely intrusive. People lose their personal assistance, which may mean that they may find it difficult to leave their own home. If it takes 4-6 months, depending on how long the processing time is in the Ankestyrelsen, it's a long time to stay without your helper. It may be that you have been able to fire the helper you have had for many years and that he has found another job, and in this way it may have enormous consequences. We still have some reservations about the economic consequences of the proposal, but I simply do not think it is so complicated that we cannot learn more about it. In other words, it has to be said that if we introduced this principle in the cases that have taken place in the past years, what economic consequence would that have? The radical rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, used just the word I have been looking for in this matter, namely enclosure. I also think that we on the conservative side have to be a little sharper when it comes to the enclosure of this thing with suspensive effect. What exactly are these cases where we introduce this principle? Because of course we are not interested in all cases per case. It is an appeal, because you might as well: then you have your performance for a further period of time. But on the other hand, it has to be said that in cases which are so important to the individual with disabilities as, for example, this BPA system, a principle such as suspensive effect will help to strengthen legal certainty, and we certainly see it as being within the enclosure if it is to be formulated in this way. So we look forward very much to working on this in committee. We hope that the Minister will reach out so that we can reach each other in the context of these adult regulations, which will be seen on the side. But I would certainly say that we in the Conservatives are not afraid to continue working on the principle of suspensive effect in these major cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119211436	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119211447	Thank you. Now we are also doing a good job down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think some people are getting hungry. Thank you for the positive statements and for those of you who support this motion for a resolution. Now it is not the case that the Danish People's Party is not willing to compromise, if we can just reach a part of the way, we would very much like that, and we would also very much like to find solutions together in committee. It may, of course, end up with a joint report if I do not get 90 mandates behind this. It is the case that more citizens and more disabled organisations have repeatedly pointed to this problem and that the everyday life of people with disabilities is made more difficult during the period when they are unduly deprived of help. That help should help maintain their normal way of life, and that is the help they are often deprived of. It can affect their quality of life, it can impair their ability to function, it can impair their job situation, it can affect family life and it can affect them psychologically hard, and it is all conditions that can cause irreparable damage. We have received a number of requests in the committee. I also remember a request from Evald Krog, but there we have to go back longer and point out that these cases give the municipalities an economic incentive to deprive or reduce the assistance to citizens with disabilities, even when it works contrary to the law, and it is precisely free to run these cases in the Ankestyrelsen. And no matter what, no matter how the case ends, the municipality will save this period. We are also aware that there is supervision and I have sometimes wondered what they are actually doing in that supervision. After all, we know that no periodic penalty payments have actually been granted to municipal councillors since 2007. Of course, trust is sometimes good too, but you should not have blind confidence, because there are challenges in this area, and we need to take them seriously. But it is precisely in relation to the state administration and supervision that we can think about where they are. After all, in their recent study, the Lawyers' Council considers it legally questionable that the administration has the possibility of this border-seeking decision-making policy in order to reduce operating costs without any impact on the administration, and I quote from the survey: "The management should not be able to adapt its practice to the fact that it does not have any negative effects when it refuses, reduces the quality or cancels an ongoing service, such as a certain number of home help hours or the number of hours spent on personal assistance or accompanying services. When preparing budgets, the management should include a description of the legal obligations to which it is subject. They actually make a lot of good recommendations, which I think we should take note of and look through. It is also a question of the longer the processing time there is and we know that today it is quite long and the greater the saving there is. This could give an incentive to drag these cases into a long line, for example. When cases are referred back to the Ankestyrelsen, and then they have to be re-evaluated and back again, and this financial gain is allowed to be retained by the municipalities, even if the citizen is successful in his complaint. We do not think this is appropriate, and that is why we have tabled the second motion for a resolution on compensatory payments together with this motion for a resolution on suspensive effect. In relation to this motion for a resolution, we would like to see a suspensive effect introduced in cases where the citizen's ability to function has not improved, and that means that the citizen will only be deprived of or reduced in the event of his or her failure to act on the Board of Appeal. It is so important to bear in mind that it is those people who have such a great disability and who have not improved their ability to function as this resolution concerns. I think it is so important that we should act on it too, and that is why I have put it again. Because there are major challenges, and in 2014 we have made a joint report. Mrs. Marianne Jelved listed a good example from the new study by the Danish Agency of Appeal that there are both flaws and shortcomings, and there is also the Multiple Sclerosis Society's investigation. It's screaming to heaven. We have to react in here on the part of the Danish Parliament, and I hope that it will not be two years before we can find a solution to this. I am also aware of the fact that the Ombudsman has been involved in several cases, including those relating to the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance. with a case from a particular municipality where a woman was wrongly deprived of her BPA scheme. He says, and I quote: "It can have very great consequences for a citizen with a serious disability to be deprived of a benefit. For this reason too, it is important that the authorities be given sufficient information before taking a decision and that they provide an adequate and understandable explanation of the change. It's a quote from the case that has the heading "Wrong to take personal assistance from blind woman." However, that makes me a little concerned, because the case had actually been upheld by the Ankestyrelsen and they change, you might say, their position only after the Ombudsman has gone into the matter. That is why I think it is important that we review the whole area. However, when we do this, it is also important that it leads to improvements for citizens and to improvements in their legal certainty, and that is where we may sometimes not be in complete agreement. However, if nothing else, I hope that we can come to a common understanding that this is important and that we may be able to reach a joint report. In any case, I would like to thank you for today's debate, which has been very rewarding. I also understand from several of the rapporteurs that they can also see that there are challenges and that they are also willing to find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212132	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212137	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur is in favour of compromise in order to find a solution; that sounds good to me. Now there has been a lot of talk about the municipalities making wrong decisions, and yes, it is happening, and this is about a third of the cases that go on to the Ankestyrelsen, where the Ankestyrelsen ommages the municipality's decision, but it is therefore not something completely unusual that this kind of thing happens. If we take the so-called conversion rate in maritime and commercial law cases, i.e. cases decided by the Maritime and Commercial Court and passed on to the Supreme Court, we can see that it is 62%. of the decisions taken by the Maritime and Commercial Court, which are being amended by the Supreme Court, and that is not because the Maritime and Commercial Court deliberately sits and makes some wrong decisions. And if we look at Vestre Landsret and Østre Landsret, we can see that the conversion rates are 20 and 22 per cent respectively. In other words, law is complicated and wrong decisions are being made, including in the municipalities, and we will probably never get out of this. I just think that is important to get into the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212250	All good points are important in this debate. But may I not also just say that the municipality today has several opportunities to seek help, including seeking advice from VISO, including the legal hotline on the Ankestyrelsen's website and a task force. There are a great many opportunities that we have provided to make their handling even better, and we have done so in the social field. There it is so voluntary and not compulsory whether you want a task force out. However, there are a great many opportunities for municipalities to get help in making the right decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212326	The questioner? Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212347	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119212405	Thank you. With the research and innovation policy statement on the agenda here today or tonight, the government takes stock of the foundations for future growth and prosperity. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his written statement. There is very interesting reading, which I am sure we will have a good opportunity to discuss and discuss this evening. It seems reasonable to note that since the government's accession, there has been a wind in the field of research. Thus, not many months had passed before the government presented the Danish Parliament and Denmark with the Finance Act for 2016 with a saving of 1.4 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There are certainly several of the initiatives put forward that the Socialists are looking forward to discussing in greater detail. We can come back to that. First of all, we must note that the government's research and innovation policy ambitions are in the shadow of the massive savings made in autumn. In defending the cuts, the Minister's argument is well known: Denmark continues to spend more than 1%. of the gross domestic product of research, and when the government took over power, the check-up showed that the box was empty. It is gradually both an old and worn travert, which does not necessarily make it truth. Compared with the cashier's check-up, the Ministry of Finance adjusted the financial room for manoeuvre as early as September in connection with the updated cashier's check-up, and yet the argument has been used diligently afterwards. So the so-called black hole with which the government has toured has no hold in reality, and the fact that Denmark continues to spend more than 1%. of GDP on research is overshadowed by the fact that research is cut by 1.4 billion. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). That is what ultimately counts. Why are cuts so crucial? We should not look ahead instead of dwelling on the fact that 1.4 billion has been set aside. kr. less for research in 2016? No, because it's not just about crowns and ears on the 2016 Finance Act. Research and innovation are the basis for growth and prosperity in Denmark. That is the basis for today, and that is the basis for the future. I think most parties can recognize that. Our ability to find new solutions to problems that we do not yet know about is to a large extent what Denmark must live on. The Socialists are therefore constructive in their approach to actions that strengthen research and innovation. At the same time, it is the Social Democrats' ambition to bring research and business closer together. It is vital that we transform knowledge into value. Research results must be brought into play more in the form of new business and export opportunities for Denmark. The Social Democrats are therefore in favour of developing cooperation between knowledge institutions and industry. The barriers to cooperation must be broken down, both cultural and formal barriers, whether they exist. It is the community that finances the new ideas and innovative discoveries of educational establishments; then ideas must also be put into the hands of the community. That is why the Socialists also want to give priority to basic research and to free research. We need to think long-term if we want world-class research that creates value, growth and jobs in Denmark. Basic research and free research are at the heart of this. Unfortunately, in the past six months it has been pointing in a different direction in part. The government's proposals for negotiations on the research reserve were, for example, marked by a major imbalance which would have pulled the curtain away under the Free Research Council. In constructive negotiations, the parties to the agreement succeeded in ensuring the balance in the allocation of funds. This balance must and must also be kept in mind in the future. The statement shows a government with its eyes fixed on today. What should we do to get knowledge and research into gambling in our companies now and today? It is a relevant question, but we must also ask ourselves: what knowledge will be of value tomorrow? That is why there must also be a clear call from the Socialists to the government to give priority to free research. Let us look at the government's forward-looking research and innovation policy areas in the report. The Social Democrats fully support the ambition of better linking the GTS institutes with universities and companies. There's an undelivered potential to retrieve here. In addition, the strengthening of innovation centres and an increased focus on internationalisation initiatives are ideas supported by the Social Democratic Party. But there are also initiatives where we are more sceptical. For example, it is crucial that regionalisation takes into account the strong environments that already exist in our university cities. Regionalisation must be carried out wisely. We must ensure a Denmark in balance, but we must not undermine already existing knowledge and innovation environments. At the same time, the Social Democrats are highly critical of the fact that the Minister has removed the focus on social mobility in higher education development contracts. Social mobility in the education sector is a crucial element in the overall social mobility of society, and the Social Democrats are opposed to the government having abandoned that objective. The Government's ambition for the recovery of research is, as a starting point, good. It makes sense that we aim to ensure that knowledge and research do not just remain within the walls of universities, as I also noted earlier. However, the problem with the government's proposal to increase the commercialisation of the Innovation Fund is if it is at the expense of free research. That's what we saw with the project for the research reserve. At the same time, too one-sided focus on commercialisation means that you risk losing focus on research that is at least as important on other parameters. Research into welfare, social heritage and other social contexts may not have an immediate commercial purpose, but the knowledge it can provide can be of equal value. If profit becomes the sole ruler of research, we run the risk of missing out on gains that we cannot imagine today. We should be careful about taking that route. That is why the Socialists call on the government to maintain the balance between commercial research on the one hand and the research foundation on the other. In relation to the proposal on rural pilots, there are good tactics in the proposal, which could, however, be usefully made nationwide. I also hope that, in the context of our debate, the Minister will deepen the ambition of the proposed road map. According to the report, the new road map should contain both vision, strategic orientations and a catalogue of concrete proposals for research infrastructure. These are ambitious proposals which could, however, usefully be further fleshed out. The answers are not given immediately in the statement, so I look forward to hearing the Minister's answers also to the questions in the later debate. Overall, it has to be noted that the government's account of research and innovation policy is in the shadow of the billion cuts in research in 2016. There's no way around it. It is no longer than last year that, during the research and innovation policy debate, the rapporteur of the Liberal Party praised Denmark's efforts in this field. The Left rapporteur said, I think, very wisely that we in Denmark have stepped on the accelerator and that it has worked. Unfortunately, in the meantime, the foot has been lifted and instead placed on the brake. It is the Socialists' hope that the Left Government will return to giving real priority to the area, so that future discussions in the field of research and innovation policy will not be about billion cuts, but about how we will strengthen the whole sector from the point of view, no one knew the need, to the day-to-day application of our businesses, which are creating jobs and growth here and now. Our research-based programmes across the country must have the best students, employees and researchers who are both able to acquire the latest knowledge and translate it for the benefit of the whole society. This requires that we give priority to research. The Socialists are ready to take responsibility and engage in any constructive cooperation that points in that direction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119213157	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119213208	Thank you. We were a small group from the Education and Research Committee, which was on a committee trip last week. With Dansk Industri we visited three strong manufacturing companies, three companies, all of which are at the forefront of the world market in their respective territories. The title of the trip was: How can public research lift Danish production companies? All three companies have researchers themselves and thus also the basis for having direct contact with research institutions, which they also have. One of the companies had a professor from DTU in his management. This shared employment had given rise to a number of challenges. At the same time, the challenges of obtaining patents from universities and the production of the real world were also presented in several places. The trip showed me two things. On the one hand, I saw Danish companies that are ahead of the international community, and on the other hand, challenges were pointed out in gaining knowledge from our research institutions, challenges which could be solved largely if only the will was there on both sides. That is why today's debate is also very important. The agenda in the government statement is quite right. We need to focus on the interaction between business and public research, and it is absolutely crucial to address several levels, including the basic ones. Of course, we must ensure that it is easy to have shared positions between companies and research institutions. We must also make it possible for there to be a real scientific career in such divided processes. It must not be bureaucracy or misunderstood fine sensations on the part of researchers, which means that you do not move into companies. It is also important that all good ideas and patents can easily come into play. The challenges of obtaining patents from universities are frequently mentioned. I might have the fear that there are a great many good ideas in the universities that do not move forward, because universities value the potential of the idea, but may not be entirely realistic about the investment that needs to be made before the project can become a real product. In other words, there are too many expectations that patents will make money. Patents would like to be out and used and very much like actively in cooperation with the researchers. Indeed, they should literally keep up with companies and follow patents and good ideas. We must press for active and open work on culture to work together in the research institutions. A lot is being done, but there is still a lot to work with, and they just need to do that out there. When I talk to businesses across the country, it is always the case that the unclear nature of the various schemes that exist is mentioned. Try to think about: We have development and demonstration programmes in different ministries; we have market development fund; we have growth fund in the Ministry of Business and Growth; we have innovation agents, innovation environments, innovation networks, GTS institutes in the Ministry of Education and Research; we have regional growth forums; we have municipal greenhouses and much more. And then we also have the Innovation Fund, which was created as a merger of three funds, and in my view was the first step on the road to a small clean-up in this whole system. All these programmes, funds, schemes have different purposes, different budgets, but they all aim to advise entrepreneurs and companies on research, technology, innovation, to invest in start-ups and to establish networks and knowledge sharing between companies and research institutions. There are many excellent things in the report, but could we not jointly set out to address across parties where we could really make a difference in order to optimise the impact of the overall effort on the interaction between industry and research • create a really coherent system? When it says on page 11 of the statement that it must be transparent for companies and other users, which means are relevant to them, let us make it transparent. When, on page 15 of the statement, an analysis of the value creation that public research efforts have for business and society is being carried out, I cannot help thinking that we really know very well that the creation of value consists primarily in the fact that knowledge actually reaches businesses and is being used in new and better products. Maybe we don't have to analyze that. What if, instead, we used all the resources to remove barriers, to ensure an easy and equal way of knowledge rather than an analysis, so that we can imagine that we can prioritise research funds, could we not start by simplifying and streamlining the system? Then there would also be more money that could go directly to research. That is why my silent prayer here tonight is: let's get started making a difference. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119213732	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119213758	I read the speech to the usual rapporteur of the Left, who is unfortunately prevented from taking part in this debate. I am also going to convey a message from the Conservative People's Party, and I assume that this is because they agree with what I am going to say now, namely that I am pleased that today we have the opportunity to debate and focus on Denmark's research and innovation policy. It is, of course, a debate that is important for a great many people in Danish society. Research and innovation are the prerequisites for growth, jobs and positive development throughout the country. For our Left Government, research and innovation are important priorities. Despite recent savings, we are still investing a great deal of money in public research in Denmark. In 2016, 1.01% is invested. of gross domestic product equivalent to 20.6 billion. kr. in publicly funded research. This means that Denmark will continue to be one of the OECD countries with the largest public research budget, which is part of GDP. Our government insists that Denmark should have a leading position in the field of research and innovation. But it is not only interesting to see how much money is being spent. It is, of course, crucial how for the government it is a key priority that research and innovation are supported throughout the country. We have already taken initiatives to achieve this, and we will continue to do so. We have among other things. A new rural growth pilot scheme was introduced to enable rural-based enterprises to receive two-year support for the recruitment of highly educated people to help them implement concrete innovation projects. This will boost the creation of growth and jobs in rural areas. At the same time, a stronger regional anchor must also be created through the physical presence of research and innovation work throughout the country. But not only the regional objective is an important priority for the Left; the interaction between business and public research is also a clear priority. We must ensure that Danish companies have access to new knowledge and competences. Research shall be use-oriented and accessible. Precisely accessibility and openness are focal points for us. The Left wants free access to the production of new knowledge, and it is our aim to create free and free access to scientific articles for everyone by 2022. This will be an important step towards a more open and user-oriented research culture. With these words, the Left fully endorses the conclusions and analyses contained in the statement. We look forward to the continued work of promoting our vision for research and innovation policy work, thereby promoting growth and positive development throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214052	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214058	I'll be brief. The rapporteur said that an ambition for the Left is to maintain a leading position in the field of research and innovation. So I would like to ask a very specific question: does the rapporteur think that it hampers or promotes the ambition that the government is now cutting almost half a billion in the field of research?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214122	That, of course, makes it more difficult to meet, of course it does. But we also have an economy that must be linked, and all areas must contribute. We can make it, but it will of course be harder, everything else would not be fair to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214142	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214155	Thank you very much. With this research policy statement, the Minister is in the process of discussing how to create the best conditions for research and development throughout Denmark. I just have to say that I think the government has come really, really bad from the start by starting to cut 1.4 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the subject of research, and I would also like to say a few words on the subject of universities. In my view, this is a very, very strange way of showing that you want to create good conditions. The Minister himself emphasizes in this report that research must meet the needs of business for new knowledge. Of course, this is not something we often say in the Enhedslisten, but in this case I could actually have imagined that the government had listened a little more to the business community, because Danish Industry and Danish Businesses have clearly come out to say that the cuts that have been made in the field of research and education are a huge problem for the future of all of us. That is why I simply do not understand what the government has imagined we should live on in the future. So not all Danes can become prime minister with a million pension. We need to train people and we need to ensure that Denmark can retain an international leadership in new research, new products and new development. And you cannot do that if you do not invest in research and education. That should be logic for caged hens. Indeed, it is quite clear that the countries that are at the forefront of the world are the same countries that have invested and invested here. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is quite obvious that the cuts that have been made will have very, very serious consequences for our future. We want to invest in research and education because it is common sense. We simply think it is obvious that Denmark can contribute with top research and create new breakthroughs in really important areas such as the environment. green energy, better care for the elderly and cleaner water. When I read this statement from the Minister for Research, it is not only the drastic cuts that have been made that are going to jump in the eye. It is also to such an extent that there is a lack of recognition that research is important to all of us, that it is the cornerstone of our common society. The Minister writes in many places in the statement that public research and development must benefit the business community. Why is it not described at all how research is to benefit all of us? Research must then make our everyday life and future brighter and greener and create better welfare and well-being for all citizens. That is why I am also concerned when there is such a narrow focus on business. For example, the Minister points out that the pharmaceutical industry is investing more and more in research, but frankly I do not think it is particularly reassuring to leave research into health and disease to pharmaceutical companies when we have seen how eager they are to push up pharmaceutical prices. We need to have reliable public research that serves the interests of the people. It is actually a very important point and something very special about Denmark that we have a great common public research because it is independent and can serve the interests of society wider and better. Another feature of Denmark is that we have had a tradition of prioritising free research and basic research. It is a research which is neither strategically determined by politicians nor by business, but which is only framed by the researchers' own creativity and ingenuity. So it has placed us in world class in the field of research. So when the Minister of Research in this paper points out that more research needs to be done for business, it is a problem because at the same time it means that there will be a corresponding reduction in free research and basic research. And it is in free research and basic research that unpredictable and experimental research, which can deliver the great breakthroughs and results of the future, is taking place. So by focusing only on the very immediate interests that businesses can have here and now, we are in danger of missing out on some knowledge and inventions in which we, as a society, have a very great interest in the longer term. I also think it is very important to bear in mind that, as the situation is now, where there are no proper basic funds for universities and for research, quality will be affected. The Director of Danske Universiteter has pointed out how fewer and fewer hands can carry out the same amount of teaching and administration. And what I hear from researchers, whom I know, is that there is now little time left to do research when, at the same time, we also have to deal with large amounts of bureaucracy and administration and write applications and teach. In the statement here, the Minister talks about the need for research to be more effective and accessible. I would just like to call for attention to be paid at the same time to how new requirements will affect the quality of research. There are studies that show that researchers' everyday lives in e.g. The biotech industry in both Denmark and the United States has become much harder. They do not have proper time to research because of increasing demands for cooperation with industry and contact with the public and the fact that they must constantly apply for new money with all the administration it entails. So that leaves very little time for real research. So I have to say that all in all we have a picture that what the government has done in the field of research and education since it came into being is so short-term and so unambitious and harmful that one can be a little depressed about it. I would say that, in turn, I am confident that this will only be a shorter, dark chapter in Danish research history. I very much look forward to the many discussions on research continuing. I look forward to the protests about these cuts growing. And I look forward to getting things right the sooner, the better. Because if Denmark is going to have something to live on in the future, and I think that, and if we are going to ensure a green transition and a proper welfare, research needs to be done. Our task is to ensure that there is a good financial framework for research and we must have confidence that researchers can actually best deliver without too much political interference. And then we'll have to bet on the long track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214842	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119214853	I'm Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance for the next 10 minutes because he was prevented from being here. The Liberal Alliance can easily agree to the Minister's statement. It is not an indication that everything that can be thought of in the research world stands for the character 12, but the average is more than enough to stand. First, a little praise. The Danish research system itself is robust and well thought out. From the purest basic research to the well-functioning prototype, there are programmes that ensure a smooth transition. From the emerging talent to the experienced research manager with a huge team around him, there is also a clear path. That is very positive. It is also positive that 67 per cent. The research funds shall be distributed as basic funds. This ensures that research can be done freely and creatively at all faculties and within all the specialties. We would have liked the basic appropriations to be even higher, but more than two thirds have certainly been approved. Nevertheless, there is a question here on which we would like to hear the Minister reflect a little. In the American university world, a number of years ago, there was a discussion of critical research into administrative research. First a little about the critical. Being the safe base of free and critical thought is the very nature of the universities. It is this protection of freedom of thought which has historically made European universities special and which has led all prosperous parts of the world to use the European model as a basis for developing their own. Critical research is necessarily and always revolutionary. Can it now also be true what the greatest and the most reputable in one's own profession say? With this question critical researchers have at all times begun their work. Critical research often leads to bitter disagreements between the old and the new thinking, but it is such bitter disagreements that in the long run drive knowledge further. So little about administrative research. Being an extended instrument for product development was what the conciliation circle behind the current university law wanted the universities to be. This is also evident from the Minister's statement. But is it critical research to make a slightly better version of what already exists, or is it not rather what is called administrative research in the American university world, that is. research, where you know exactly where you want to end up, but just don't know the way yet. That is why one of the questions we are asking today is: how does the Minister feel that the critical and rebellious research that is destroying existing world images is doing so? Do we do enough for it, or do we have an excessive focus on universities helping business to get from A to B, what one cannot blame the business community for wanting to do, but which, on the other hand, cannot be said to be critical research either? So little rice. It was regrettable, but necessary, that the 2016 Finance Act had to save 1.4 billion. kr. In the field of research. It is true that Denmark still adheres to the Barcelona objective of setting aside 1%. of GDP for research, but of course a 7-percent saving sends shock waves through the university world because so much of the budgets are tied in fixed costs. However, it has been shown that research savings indirectly hit other activities very hard, and why do they do so? They do, because universities have been charging a kind of 44 per cent tax for years. of all the research appropriations received from the State. Without this so-called tax, which the universities call overhead, the other activities cannot be linked at all, and therefore it hits the universities harder when the tax base shrinks. On the political side, or at least on the part of the Liberal Alliance, the problem with this whole system is that there is a lack of transparency. If you don't know about this so-called tax, you're tempted to believe that when the state grants 1 million. kr., gets the researcher 1 million. kr., but he or she doesn't. In fact, only DKK 560,000 is owed to the researcher. out of 1 million kr. The rest, which is far more than the administration of the specific research project can cost, is sent around the system and used for anything other than research. So the question is: does the Minister think this so-called tax system is fair and fair, and what is the Minister really going to do to promote transparency in these matters? Another thing we need to ask critically about is the rural growth pilot scheme, an expression which, among other things, is: is mentioned on page 3 of the statement. Henrik Dahl would say that it is a good rule of thumb that if a composite noun consists of more than four elements, there is something wrong. And here we are up to five. But to be serious, this is all about the state not creating economic growth. Private companies do. So how tight is the control that these rural growth pilot schemes and innovation collaborations and advisory networks and contact points for growth entrepreneurs and growth companies ever become more than meetings and power point presentations? Are there reliable and critical evaluations of these activities which, because of their terminology, already raise the suspicion that more growth is really being created in the consultancy sector than is actually being done in the real economy? Or less relevant things are measured, such as: the number of meetings and seminars held or people's subjective experiences of the activities? So finally, a little praise again, because you always have to finish off positively. As I said, we cannot give the character 12 to everything in the statement. Some elements stand to a high grade and others to a lower. All in all, however, we are definitely across the line between passing and not passing, and that is why the overall statement has certainly been approved by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119215539	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119215549	Thank you for that, President. Now we're not so fond of grades in the Alternative. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which I have read with great interest. In the alternative, we can find a number of positive aspects of the report, but certainly also some points that we are very critical of. I would like to start by mentioning the positive. In fact, we find it very positive that the government has set up a working group to help companies navigate the research and innovation system more easily. And then we are actually really excited about the rural growth pilot scheme, although one might have thought of a slightly shorter word, because it is hard to pronounce. It is very positive that this scheme provides for the possibility of providing up to two years of financial support for the recruitment of highly trained growth pilots for innovation projects in rural communities. The Innovation Fund is mentioned several times in the report and it is clear that the government is very enthusiastic about the Innovation Fund. In fact, we are in the Alternative I had a meeting with them just last week. But then it is striking that, unfortunately, the Innovation Fund has been cut from 1.6 billion. kr. in 2015 to EUR 1,25 billion; kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L It then leads me to some of the critical elements that I would like to bring forward today. And it is, of course, that overall it is extremely sad that the government is cutting research budgets as a whole. As the statement shows, 1.4 billion will be cut. kr. in 2016, and for the alternative, it is a really bad development, and it is a big setback for the research. Then the Minister writes in the statement that we need a research council system that offers research funds in free competition to ensure that the funds go to the absolute best research. But what are the parameters for the best research? It is not mentioned in this context. However, a great many other points are mentioned in the report as a whole, that what the government means by the best research is at least what I sense, and Enhedslisten's rapporteur pointed to some of the same research that is aimed at business, research that is aimed at creating economic growth and jobs. The minister writes in the statement that the government's wish is that Danish researchers and research environments should be in the absolute top class, especially in areas that match business needs. And here, in the alternative, we could not disagree more with the government. For yes, research must also benefit the business community, but not only, and certainly not, as a primary objective. For what is really the DNA of research and the primary objective of research? Is it to ensure economic growth and jobs? No, we don't think so. It is to generate knowledge that can provide free and critical and innovative and provocative and remarkable and amazing perspectives on some of the structures that exist and legislation and standards, etc. That is the essence of research. Such knowledge will just never be generated if researchers, for example. must spend a disproportionate amount of time writing applications for new projects, while completing the research projects they are in the process of, because they must secure new funds before the funding for the old funds runs out. This creates a lack of time for real research, and in fact it also creates a competitive working environment with secret drafting of applications on the other side of the wall, because the colleague next door actually sits and writes on applications for the same funds as I do, for example. Doing in my office. It is unsightly, and it is actually exhausting in relation to a good working environment. And I know because I've been in it myself. So if we now ask ourselves the question: what are the consequences for research when it is directed primarily at business? What kind of research do we get if the success parameter is growth and jobs? We shall then have an answer which I think is in direct contradiction with the nature of research, namely that research is no longer free but governed by a specific purpose and therefore in a particular direction. We can look at some of the best researchers that Denmark has actually produced. One is Jens Christian Skou, who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1997. He writes in his memoirs of 2003 that the freedom of research in today's research policy is undermined, and he tells how he had time for reflection in his research, because there were fixed appropriations, and because one was allowed to test his theses and pursue his wonders without having to account for research that did not produce an unambiguous or immediately usable result. And these are exactly the conditions, he says, which were actually the prerequisite for him to get the Nobel Prize in chemistry. Another example is Eske Willerslev, as we all know, the DNA researcher, who in 2014 was admitted to the National Academy of Sciences, this fine, distinguished American company for researchers. He is behind the discovery that it was the North Atlantic Indians who were the first people in America. Is it research that benefits Danish business? I don't think so. Is it research that creates jobs? I don't think so. But is it good and qualified research that belongs at the top of the research league? It certainly is. So the understanding of research, as I see it from this statement, has many similarities with what we all know as the new public management idea. Academies have already been rolled into this mindset years ago, where researchers have to apply for virtually everything, where everything has to be counted, and where what counts is virtually exclusively how many scientific articles you have in international journals and reach as well, just how many times you are quoted by the other researchers. The government's plans, which are referred to in the report, to launch an analysis programme with the intention of creating knowledge about the effects of public research funds, with the aim of prioritising them so as to support the needs of business, seem to me to be a screaming example of such a new public management approach, and I think it is really a pity for research. So which way is research going to follow? Now I have spent a great deal of time trying to correct the Minister's statement, and it is of course also appropriate that I explain what we in the Alternative would like to see as the future path for Danish research. First of all, like others, we want to eliminate all the excessive bureaucracy in the research institutions. There must be no more documenting in the head and in the back, and respect for the slow work must go back. We must give researchers time to go into depth, to wonder and to pursue the path of inspiration rather than to choose strategically according to where the money is most. This requires that we also set the research institutions much more free and that we trust that the institutions manage the funds with a high level of professionalism and with respect for the commitment and zeal of the individual researcher. In other words, we want to set research free and we believe that research is useful because what inventions lead to free research? Yeah, that's the good question, because we don't actually know that. That is why we need to have the courage to believe in it and to be willing to bet. There are no guarantees, but there is a huge potential for free research. This is, in fact, the way many groundbreaking discoveries have come to light, among other things. The penicillin is an example of this. So we must dare to rely on free research. Does this mean that, in the alternative, we want to set research completely free? In fact, it does not, but we want to free a greater part of the research. But we must be the first to admit that we also have goals for a better world, and a better world in our optics is not just about strengthening the economic bottom line of business. Our goals for a better world are primarily to create a sustainable future where green energy replaces black energy and where pressures on the planet's resources are reduced. Future Danish research must provide answers to the climate crisis, simply, and so massive research and investment in green conversion and in circular economy is needed. This, together with a massive upgrading of free research, is an ambitious plan for the future of Danish research. I fully agree that it is certainly not the Minister's ambition to follow that plan, so I will end up with a few proposals instead of just making a few more points in the Minister's statement. Firstly, there is a clash in the statement between the government's plans to ensure that research is to be carried out throughout Denmark, in other words with a particular focus on rural areas, and then the cuts we have seen in education, which are to a large extent the result of the dismantling of some rural educational institutions. So I would suggest to the Minister that he sit down with the Minister of Education and find out how these considerations can be reconciled. Secondly, we are actually confident in the alternative that Danish companies are not only made up of people who think in profit, but who also have a purpose and a will and some vision for the company they have, and who also want to make a difference between the social and environmental bottom line for Denmark. So we are actually proposing that the government should give companies much better opportunities, without risking the economic bottom line, and also to bid on the social and environmental bottom line. And a concrete idea here could actually be to dress these innovation agents, as mentioned in the statement, to do innovation checks that involve not only the economic bottom line, but also the social and environmental bottom line. As you can hear, we're rich in ideas in the Alternative... this was just two of them... and I hope the Minister is listening. And our door is always open if the minister wants to hear more about our visions for the future of Danish research. With that I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119220532	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next honourable speaker, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119220549	I have been honoured to be in this very good company tonight because the radical rapporteur, Ida Auken, is in Davos to speak wisely. I shall confine myself to raising seven points on which I think it is important to spend time saying something. There are, among other things: a few calls to the Minister. But let me begin with the first point: research is at the heart of our society, both so that we can develop new solutions to social problems, gain new knowledge and create new jobs and new world solutions, if I may say so, solutions that the world can enjoy. The second point is that Denmark cannot win at being cheapest, but we can win at being smarter and smarter, especially if we are also smart enough to pursue long-term strategies and set very ambitious goals that we have to stand on toes to achieve. I would like to give an example which I have just drawn from memory, and that is why it may be that the annual figures are not totally correct, but they are about right, and it may be that some of the figures may not quite fit, but the dimensions are correct. From 1970 to 2000, we have multiplied our gross domestic product. There's just a curve that goes like this. But over the same period we have maintained exactly the same energy consumption, a flat curve, because we are so the politicians who have set the goals of those decades have been working consciously that we would be energy efficient so that it could really work and give something. This means that we have made very strong demands on companies, on researchers, on universities to make this come true. And it could be done. I think that is actually a very good doctrine, because at the same time it shows some of the places where we have come in front of the rest of the world because we have had that will across parties and governments etc. to follow a common line. It is also something that the Danish people's government can do. The next point I would like to mention is that energy and environmental solutions are one of the things Denmark is really good at, as I have just mentioned here. It is also an area where exports have increased year by year and where the market for Danish solutions around the world is very large. Maintaining programmes such as the EUDP and MUDP is absolutely essential to creating jobs for the future. That is why it is a good example that we are partly annoyed by, partly criticising the government, and that is the next point for choosing to save 1.4 billion. kr. on research on this year's Finance Act. That's a lot of money. And even if we invest a lot of money in research, 1.4 billion. kr. in savings really, really hard. That is why we have actually made an effort to prevent it from doing too much damage, and that is why we are pleased that the programmes I have just mentioned have actually been maintained. Because that is part of the long-term energy and environmental strategy that I mentioned before. Then I will conclude with a point which is such a pat on the shoulder and a really strong call to the Minister. After all, we have eight universities in Denmark, and you might say that is a lot of things, but there is really great value in having the universities that we have. There are some located in Copenhagen • Copenhagen University, IT University and CBS. After all, the three universities have come at different times in history, and they have tremendously different funding options. Then we have Roskilde University, which is a little out on Zealand, and we have DTU, which I would say is located in North Zealand. It's kind of signposted, but still. They each have their own peculiarities, each of their strengths, which are important and which we would not have if we had not created them in the way we have placed them as independent universities. Then we have Jutland and Funen with the University of Southern Denmark the last place I mentioned and Aarhus University, and then we have Aalborg University. After all, I have been elected in Aalborg for a very, very many years, which is why I have been following Aalborg University in particular. There I have had some experience which I think gives food for thought. But here, too, we can see that the University of Southern Denmark and Aalborg University are financed on much, much less favourable terms than the two large, old universities • Aarhus University and the University of Copenhagen. What I have discovered, and which I would like to hand over to the Minister, is that you cannot get the eight universities to sit around a table and find a smarter way of financing universities unless it leads to more money for universities, and that is not my thinking here. What I am saying here I have said very, very many times, even when all the rectors have heard it at once, and they get very, very upset every time. That is why we really need a strong political one, I was just about to say the backbone or the hand to set a redistribution in motion. It can take a long time, as long as it gets started. Because I can say about Aalborg University, which, as I said, I know quite well that they are a gift for the part of the country in which they are located, so that it is almost impossible to explain. They have used their energies and their knowledge and their research and their development work in a strong collaboration with local and regional society, and they do so in daily life. I know that happens elsewhere. But it just meant really, really much to the part of the country that that university was there. It has simply saved Aalborg and the whole region from very great difficulties in providing for example. jobs. They have actually been able to develop a way of working with the companies, which are very, very practical and landy, but which makes the university known in every corner of North Jutland. They do, for example. Interdisciplinary courses in a few months, August-September, i.e. a collaboration between the professional high school in Aalborg and the University of Aalborg, where they dispute the students so that they represent different subject areas of psychology, ergotherapy, media, architect etc. And then they bring in some welfare companies located in the region and say: Present one of your problems and challenges. And then they get a group like this that gets three weeks to find a solution. I have actually followed it and can see how companies are sitting and discovering that some people here have found a solution to their challenges that they themselves had not found. At the same time they see future employees, and suddenly they know the university and know what it can contribute. One can say that the way to work is very trivial, but it is 2 months, August-September, that are used for this, where they are going through, because they are not actually funded in a way that they can finance this themselves. But they figure it out as legally as possible, so it's legal, but it's strenuous. That is why we also need some new thinking if we want to do such projects, because professional colleges and universities are not funded in the same way, and therefore it is very difficult for them to go in and do something in cooperation. Other institutions may feel the same way. So making it more flexible, simpler, more based on the ideas and forces that are at a university and around a university could give a lot of impetus, more than it already does. There's too much trouble, and it's too hard sometimes. But the transformation to provide more equal funding for universities in the longer term will be a great gift to a great many, including Denmark and our future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119221448	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119221458	Thank you for that, and thank you for some good speeches. Although it's a maybe a little long debate, there's a lot of interesting points coming out this way. I should also like to thank the Minister for his statement. I think it is a good tool, and although I and the SF do not agree with all the intentions in the statement, I think it actually helps to create some transparency. I think that those who read the report and who are not research geeks get a better understanding of what Denmark is really spending its research crowns on. I think that's good. On the fundamentals of research, we feel in the SF that we believe that we must constantly become wiser. We really think this is one of those places where it can happen. I would actually say that if I had 90 mandates alone, this was probably one of the places where I really wanted to invest. We believe that Denmark must live on the good and green ideas. Instead of competing in some hopeless race to the bottom, where we can compete on worse working conditions or lower wages or black technologies that overuse the natural resources of the planet, I believe that we must compete much more on good ideas, innovation, knowledge and green growth. Although I disagree with many of the priorities taken by the government this year in the Finance Act, I nevertheless think that a huge amount of work is being done around here to achieve those objectives, and I also think that we are a pioneer country in the field of research, although I think we could be better. We are, in fact, very much in agreement with the preliminary remark. In fact, I think it is one of the most important things in the report, because it says that research is the driving force for a society in development. I think that the rapporteur of the alternative said it very well, namely that research is so at the heart of everything we think and in the good ideas. I think that was quite well said. We believe that not all research needs to be directed directly towards business or have a direct purpose in business in order to have an important function in our society. We think that strategic research can have its advantages, but we think that it is also in free research that you find some of the more critical and alternative research projects, where you may have thought, from the outset, that what ever returns is going to come, and then suddenly it was some ideas that ended up changing the world and that suddenly gave a huge return for Denmark. Recovery is a whole section of the report, and as such it is a fun concept, as I also fear we will be discussing a lot in relation to grants to universities and business services. But that is another discussion, and yes, some things can make private money on, but I think that we should both give room to those things that may well give a return one day, but also to the crooked ideas. We have a good education system in the country, and we therefore have many talented research talents, which, in addition to having great courage, have many original ideas that we must pursue and help to realise. We must create spaces to pursue original research pages with an unknown potential to improve our life and way of life. It is actually one of the descriptions you can see if you go to the Free Research Council's website. And I think it's quite apt. Well, there are some things where you think that yes, this can come out, and it can give a return and help strengthen Denmark in international competition. But there are also some research pages that again are the cores of a society in development that can just help improve our way of life in this room and so on throughout society. I think that is important to recognise. Another part of the research, which is also mentioned in this report and which we have also discussed a great deal, is the green demonstration programmes. After all, it is a bit forward and backward that it can be used for commercialisation, and there is again this recovery, but I think it is actually a success, because on the one hand it creates jobs and provides a return, but most importantly it helps to contribute to the green transition. That's why we fought hard, it's no secret to the research reserve to get more funding for the green demonstration programmes. For, unfortunately, some of them were also said to be the ones to which we are reducing the allocation. Water technology, which is part of the demonstration programmes, which we find very exciting, is an important area to target research, we believe that together we can ensure clean drinking water, wastewater treatment and reduce emissions of climate gases in the water sector. The environment, both in the vicinity and in the distance, is subject to many negative influences, which requires us as a local community, but also as a parliament and world society, to act actively to change our current way of dealing with nature. So our recommendation will be that we continue to really focus on these development demonstration programmes, because we believe that there is a lot to get. Now I have tried to focus a little on many of the good things and some of what is important for the SF, but I also need to add a little more words to what has happened with the Finance Act. For as much as I am for the transparency that lies in this statement, I am just as sorry about the direction the government has taken in Denmark's research ambitions. From the first year of life, 1.4 billion have been saved. kr. In the field of research. I remember that the good Villy Søvndal called it a welfare sacchar in some welfare areas, but I think it is right to talk about this being a research massacre in some areas. It has been so hard that the mentioned Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also been so hard that Danish companies, some of those who create the most jobs, have been threatening to leave the country because they fear that they will not be able to get the trained labour they need and the knowledge they need. I really think that should be taken into account in future reflections, and I hope that when the government assesses it I think that we have different assessments of when there will be an economy for it soon to assess that there is an economy to give more to research. To cut the research is like peeing in your pants to stay warm. Denmark needs the good ideas, and if it is up to SF, Denmark will become even more a pioneer country when it comes to strong research environments. Then I have a very specific question which I have been thinking about a little. I didn't think it was big enough for it to be worth a consultation, but then came this statement, and then we thought it would be a great opportunity. In fact, as I understand it, we have a rental system in which universities pay rent. Now I read up: The rental system is designed so that a small half billion kroner annually flows back to the Treasury from the total public funding for research and development. This is not money that goes to maintain or manage university buildings, it is a purely return requirement that the state has chosen to collect from the university sector. Parliament formally sells 20.6 billion. kr. for research and development in 2016. It is not a random number, and it has also been mentioned several times today. It's because you see this 1.01 target that we've committed ourselves to in Barcelona. However, as the figures for university rent show, part of the grant also goes towards the return on rent, i.e. they go back into the treasury, as we see it, and if you correct it, the real research and development allocation is only 20.15 billion. kr., because you send some money back to the Treasury and so don't spend it on research. That's 0.988 per cent. It is therefore slightly below the target to which we have committed ourselves. I would just like to say that it is quite clear that we have some money that we are giving to research and that is coming back to the treasury again, and I think that you are actually so excited that you do not reach your Barcelona target. I would like to know what the Minister thinks about it. It is, moreover, the University newspaper that has described it in an article and done a good job. However, thank you for your statement and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119222244	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119222256	I would also like to begin by expressing my support for the many good considerations underlying the speeches that have been made here. Although it is a relatively late hour, it is a pleasure, regardless of whether you look at research and innovation policy statements from one political spectrum or another, to hear that there has been a great deal of reflection on where you want to move it here. Only last week I hosted the annual research and innovation meeting. About 100 key players in the field participated in Kolding. The theme at the meeting was from knowledge to value, and we had some very good discussions, speeches and reflections on how we get the good research that we do in Denmark out to benefit society. Making research useful is a subject which concerns me very much and which is also at the heart of the statement that we have been discussing this evening. It is not only the economic part of research as a value-creator, but also, to a large extent, the human part. Of course, in a research and innovation policy statement based on the original agreement on the Danish Innovation Fund, there is a focus on the more economic growth element. I very much agree with the rapporteurs who have spoken about research as a major driving force for the development of our society. Danish research is to bring information, growth and jobs to the whole of Denmark. In this context, it is not only the size of investments that is important, but also our ability to transform research-based knowledge into innovative products and processes, spin-off companies and thus growth and jobs, because research must be of benefit. That's the government's objective. We've gone to the polls to invest at least 1%. of GDP in research and development. The status is that despite the savings made in the autumn, we are still investing a great deal of money in public research, and all the indications are that Denmark will continue to be one of the countries in the OECD that has the largest public research budget as a share of gross domestic product in 2016. At the same time, the business community invests considerable sums, which means that we have a very, very high level of funding in Denmark when it comes to our research. In just a few years, the proportion of our funding for research in Denmark has increased by 50 per cent, which means that despite the fact that we have had a decline in appropriations for 2016, we are significantly higher than in the 1990s or in the early 00s, for example. All of this is an indication that, as a society, we are not disappearing from the research elite, we are really, really high today, even if we have had savings. The question then is whether we will get enough out of the investments we are making. As can be seen from the report, Danish research and innovation have a good starting point, because Danish research is in a strength position, and this is confirmed by the latest figures from the Research Barometer from 2015. We are generally doing well in the international comparison, among other things. is Denmark's R & D in top three, if you look at the number of publications in relation to population • only Switzerland and Iceland produce several scientific publications per year. population than Denmark. At the same time, Danish research is generally of high international quality and in a number of areas, for example. in food, climate and pharmaceutical research, Danish researchers are in the world elite. This is also evident when you look at the proportion of the Danish research publications, which are among the 10%. most quoted articles. When it comes to innovation, we are doing well too. We're number one. 2 after Sweden on the EU Innovation Union Scoreboard from 2015, which compares the innovation capacity of EU countries. I am proud that Danish research has such high quality and impact, but I am also very concerned that we are even better at getting research out to create value in our society. As I said, both human and economic value. Although we are already getting much out of the research that is being carried out today, we need to get even better. Today, for example, Denmark is only in the middle field when it comes to the number of new inventions, patents and licensing, sales and option agreements from public research institutions. Of course, this does not show the overall picture because a very important factor is missing. For the most important knowledge bridge between research and industry, the graduates from higher education are employed in Danish companies every year. It is all their knowledge that will be useful in the Danish companies. But well can be better, because despite the high quality of Danish research, we must also be able to translate that research into new solutions, processes, products and services. Basically, it is about creating a better interaction between public research and the surrounding society, so that we increase the cake so that there is more to be shared out. This year's report focuses on the interaction between business and public research with a particular regional focus. Public research efforts must meet the needs of business for new knowledge. It is not the case that all research should be targeted at the needs of industry now and here, because much research only discovers the usefulness of after many years, as several of the rapporteurs have also pointed out, and the companies of the future will be some other than those we know today. But we need to be better at using our research knowledge in companies. This supports the government's objective of creating growth and more private jobs throughout Denmark. Danish companies must have access to new knowledge and competences, and the entire research and innovation system must be geared to supporting knowledge collaboration between companies and research institutions, wherever they are in the country. The report focuses specifically on the instruments that support this interaction. These may include joint research projects and training of PhDs, as well as smaller initiatives including counselling, sparring and matchmaking. The means of action must constitute a coherent system, it must be transparent for companies and other users, what instruments are relevant to them, and regional and national initiatives must complement each other. In the government, we have been focusing from the first day on the fact that growth and development are not only beneficial to large cities. We should not divide Denmark into development and dismantling, and since innovation is a major driving force for business development, this also applies, of course, to the research and innovation system. The report shows that business research and development is concentrated on Copenhagen and Aarhus, while business innovation activities are more evenly distributed across Denmark. At the same time, there are significant regional differences between the services offered by the companies. It is mainly companies in the Capital Region and partly East Jutland that participate in the major projects and international programmes. The companies participating in innovation networks and smaller projects are more equally located throughout Denmark. It may be an exaggeration that demand for knowledge and skills varies regionally and that a differentiated research and innovation system is needed to meet the specific needs of businesses in the different regions. We need to be aware of this, and this is a topic on which I, as Minister for Education and Research, focus and will focus further in the new year. Let us then look at some of the things that will take place in 2016. There is a clear link between the skills of employees and the ability of companies to develop and translate knowledge into innovation. Education is perhaps the most important source of innovation in companies, new graduates take their knowledge and ideas from the studies with them into the companies, and we in the government want this to take place throughout the country • also companies outside the major cities should be able to attract well qualified and highly trained labour. Therefore, with the growth plan, the government has set up a rural growth pilot scheme under the auspices of the Danish Innovation Fund. The government wants to provide economic support to small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas so that they can hire a highly trained growth pilot to solve a concrete innovation project. Businesses located in areas outside the major cities employ less highly trained workers. With the growth pilots, we get highly trained employees out in Denmark, and it is a springboard for more development, growth and job creation in companies. At the same time, with the growth plan, the government has proposed that the Innovation Fund should have employees associated with strong regional knowledge environments, for this enables the Innovation Fund to support research and innovation across the country with a strong regional anchoring through a physical presence. As the report shows, the bridge building between public research institutions and companies succeeds best around the major cities. In the rest of Denmark, we have been less good at connecting the bridge to business, so we need to look at that. Small and medium-sized enterprises across the country must have easier access to knowledge from public research institutions, and therefore the government is proposing a new objective in educational institutions' development contracts that enhance knowledge cooperation. In this way, we will strengthen regional business promotion efforts and the institutions will have the opportunity to test their research in practice. At the same time, as something new, the government will introduce development objectives to the GTS. Among other things, it has to be done. support that we reap the full potential of the knowledge developed at the research institutions. GTS play a major role when it comes to building an infrastructure of knowledge, skills and equipment that is made available to all Danish companies. This is to be seen in the wake of the fact that, at the beginning of 2016, we have concluded new performance contracts with the GTS institutions of just under 1 billion. kr. over a 3-year period. Some of the contracts will focus on increasing Danish influence on international standardisation in areas with significant potential for Danish small and medium-sized enterprises. There will also be a special effort to promote cooperation with foreign institutions so that we can improve the access of Danish companies to technological services. In relation to the remarks then made by the various rapporteurs, I would like to say that, of course, I am aware that there is no one in this House who is very much in favour of cutting research appropriations. It also hurts me as Minister for Research, but at the same time we have to say that it is a priority in this society to be able to use funds in other areas too, such as a growth package to create jobs throughout the country. To Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen of the Social Democrats I sign for the positive words that were used, but it is clear that we do not share the view of how it might pull away the blanket under our research environments. This is, moreover, a recital which was repeated by several of the rapporteurs in the field of free research. May I not just remind you that Denmark is one of the countries in the world where research is most free. We have given priority to three-year basic grants to universities. This means that there are still some 8.5 billion. kr., which enters a free university system. In addition, a very, very large share is being spent on the Free Research Council, so if you compare what is strategically prioritised by the government and then the funds used in free research and for ordinary basic funding, there is no doubt that there are very, very large millions and billions of dollars for free research. I am pleased that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament supports the GTS effort and also the innovation part. It also welcomes the fact that regionalisation must take account of the existing knowledge environments. It is a recital that we fully share; we should not have more research environments in Denmark, understood in the sense that we should consolidate where we have them, and then we should get the knowledge from there out into the country, working there, not least because we are a small country, compared to that there are relatively many universities. I am also pleased that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen spoke positively about the rural growth pilot, and in relation to the road map on research infrastructure, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen asked, I can inform you that we have allocated 132 million in 2016. A large number of recommendations for research infrastructure have been made by the NUFI, which is the committee which is working on research infrastructure and recommends to the Minister what can be done and also invested. The roadmap will be presented later this year, and there we will have about 22 proposals that will be implemented in the years up to 2020. So it is after the opinion of the different environments in the country, and then there will of course be a balance of where to bet. To Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party I would like to say that I very much share the perspective that the rapporteur began with on the focus on the interaction between knowledge and industry. The focus that was also directed at the shared positions, i.e. the mobility between the business community and being, for example, a researcher or an employee of higher education institutions, was in fact one of the themes that was at the research and innovation meeting we had last week in Kolding, because it is precisely a recognition that we can get more out of it. The same was true of the patent relationship. We have a large patent base in Denmark, where we in the government want it not to remain passive, but to be more activated. That is something I hope we will have discussions on in the coming years too, in other words the use of patents. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl also addressed the opaque arrangements, a need to clean up and then optimize the effect so that you get a really coherent system. This is, of course, a point of view which the rapporteur has made in the past. It will not be worse, but I have thought that it was an idea for the committee to hold a hearing on a more coherent system across ministries. The rapporteur could of course consider including this in the committee, and I should like to come as a minister and make a few words about having a really coherent system. As regards the whole analysis of the value creation that research should contribute, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, that was something he looked forward to so I understood him. And that is one of the things we have addressed in the government base, because we also consider it essential that we see what is actually coming out of the research funds we are using. Something we can measure directly, something we can't and shouldn't measure directly. So those words, like Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl ended with, I can only welcome: let us get started making a difference. Mrs Eva Flyvholm of the Enhedslisten had a more critical mine on: Government policy is both short-term, unambitious and harmful. It is not because I do not share the rapporteur's view that cutting research funds naturally has consequences. However, to that end, we have to say that today we are spending far more research money than we did ten years ago, for example. And, of course, when you do that, it is also important to be able to discuss with each other whether you are actually getting something out of the funds you are using, also in relation to the surrounding society. We have said from the government that it is not only research that contributes to growth. For example, it does. to invest in health care or take business measures that generate growth throughout the country. So I understand what the rapporteur says. I do not share the view. I do not believe that government policy is short-sighted or harmful. I think it is good for everyone to decide how we translate the means we use. With regard to what the rapporteur has said about health research, it is actually quite important to emphasise that this is the area which is the most important priority in Denmark. We have very reliable public research that serves the interests of society. So I do not share the concern expressed by the rapporteur. It is clear that we have very strong research funds in the medical field, but it also has a very, very high priority in the public budget. In relation to the large amounts of bureaucracy and deregulation that the rapporteur touched on, this is a view that the government fully shares. That is one of the things we have included in the negotiations on the progress reform, together with the conciliation parties that are there. However, as the rapporteur will know, as a minister I have also put forward an anti-bureaucracy theme for the whole sector. We will have regular meetings with the whole sector and also with the political system on how we debureaucraticise our sector. Because none of us here has an interest in using resources unnecessarily. But it is also clear that when you have, for example, a European research system in which Danish researchers seek funds within, for example, The Horizon 2020 programme, then there are great demands for documentation, for skill and to be able to commit themselves in those applications. And that gives bureaucracy, including for the individual researcher. But I think most people in here agree that the researcher should spend most of his time researching and teaching, and then it is our job to put the best possible framework in politics so that it does not end up in a bureaucratic everyday life. Mrs Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance gave the government a character over pass. I thank you for that and sign for it. As far as reflection on critical and administrative research is concerned, I believe that there is a good balance in Denmark in this respect. We can always discuss what comes out of free research versus more strategic research, but I think that we have a reasonable balance in Denmark, which can also tolerate public discussions on how we prioritise. And it must also be said that in a country like ours, which has been declining due to economic crisis and so on, it is of course essential to consider whether something will come out of the research we are doing in relation to getting more wheels moving in society. As far as transparency and the whole upper-head part are concerned, it is part of our research council system, that is, our licensing system, that we have overheads. You can always discuss the level of that. There are different overhead levels, including: in the European system compared to the Danish system when applying under the EU framework. This is a discussion that we can take, for example, in the circle of rapporteurs. I believe that this is both a sensible and transparent system, but there is no doubt that the rates for overhead and how they are used can always be discussed as part of the university economy. To Mrs Magdalene Maier from the Alternative, I would like to say that I share many of the views expressed. I certainly believe that research is useful in itself as research, free research, but also that strategic research is an important part that we have as a political tool in terms of having objectives we want to achieve. I agree with the rapporteur on what the primary objective of research is, but I do not believe that this is contrary to the fact that we can also have strategically-priority vocational research, which we would like to promote from the government. Then I'm just gonna sign to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark for the good words and say that yes, we need to research in the green area. We need research to be a driving force and we need to spend the money best in terms of recovery and business rights. And then I must come back to the rapporteur with a written answer to a question about rent, so that the rapporteur gets it in a real context. With those words, I would like to sign for the speeches that have been made and for the comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224334	Thank you. And we have one brief comment from Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224342	Thank you very much. I note that the Minister himself also emphasizes both the fact that Denmark has had a very high level of investment in research, that is to say that we are actually very far ahead, and that we have also invested a great deal in free research and basic funding. That is why I would like to hear: what is it that makes the Minister and the government want to change that course, that is, when you choose to cut back and when you choose to shift the balance in relation to free research and basic appropriations? I would also like to ask: how can the Minister guarantee that this will not mean that we will fall behind in the research elite? Well, basically, we don't know anything about that yet. It is, of course, right now that subjects have been closed, and it is right now that researchers are being fired. We also hear rumors about how many of the skilled PhDs will probably go abroad to continue research. I mean, we haven't seen the consequences of these cuts at all yet. So why change course? And how can the Minister be so sure that this will not have very great consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224445	I believe that the government is adjusting its course. And that is what we are doing in the light of what we ourselves said when we went to the polls: that we will spend at least 1%. of GDP. We are so concerned about making research work even more and thus creating a greater GDP, so that in the end there will also be more to be shared out of the social cake as a whole. Can I give you guarantees that it doesn't have any consequences? No, I can't, because as has been said from here: when you cut by 1.4 billion. kr., it will have consequences. But it is an expression of a re-prioritisation in relation to some of the things we would also like to do, for example, as I said, a growth package for business, the fact that you have a boost on health and the like. But of course that will have consequences. I think I have said that many times, but I think it is an adjustment of the price that we can tolerate and which still maintains us at the top of OECD countries. And if we can then become even more capable of commercialising our knowledge so that we create more jobs and so on, I think it is only beneficial for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224554	Well, it is true that politics is a priority, and I can say from this that we certainly would not have prioritised tax cuts and cheaper luxury cars rather than research. But that has been the government's priority. But one of the things I would like to hear is whether the Minister can point to some of the other countries in the research stop, we compare with and are in a race with now, who has chosen a similar strategy as Denmark, that is, who has chosen to cut down significantly on research. For some of the countries we have discussed in the past, such as: Israel and others are, after all, some who really invest a lot. So can the Minister point to other countries that will do the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224631	For fear of not being able to provide correct information from the parliamentary platform, I will not be here to mention individual countries, but it is clear that we have seen that some of the countries that have followed Denmark for several years, also at the level of grants, also check their own economy. Now I have some on a list in my office, but I would rather rather send it to the rapporteur so that the rapporteur can know exactly. But it is clear that Denmark is not the only country that has been hit by crisis. At the same time, it is just as clear that some countries in the world, such as Israel, are also at a high level of investment. But we can then have that as a joint task throughout the Folketing to search for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224710	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224713	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for answering my question in writing. It's fine. I was thinking about something, but it was actually mostly in terms of continuity in the way we invest in research, and it is actually something I have been thinking about since we negotiated the research reserve and something that I would like to discuss at some point. Because I have heard several people say that it is problematic that we should allocate appropriations from year to year, that is to say that it makes it difficult to make those long-term investments, such as. in the demonstration programmes or for the Free Research Council, when you only know what you have from year to year. I would actually be ready to discuss the fact that it was put out for several years at a time, so it was easier to invest long-term, and I want to hear what the Minister thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224806	Well, as a starting point, there is something useful in having multiannual funding horizons, and that is why we have, for example. the basic funding of both the GTS and the universities at the age of three. There are some agreements on the distribution of the research reserve which make the one year old and which I may not be able to stand right here and change, but I see the signal and understand the point, as Mr. Jacob Mark pleads. Because there is no doubt that it has some consequences in terms of how to invest more long-term. How we can possibly correct this is worth considering and, as I said, this is something that we can discuss without me being able to stand here today and give some firm commitment as to how it can look beyond years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224856	The questioner. Jacob Mark, that's fine. I don't have anything). Okay. We move on to the next question, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224903	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that it is not, of course, because in the alternative we do not also want strategic research, as I said in my rapporteur's speech; I think we just have some other areas that we would like to prioritise in the strategic field. But there is something I would like to ask the Minister. Now, in his speech, the Minister mentioned that the government is very much prioritising free research, including in Denmark, but can we not agree that free research, one can say in the research budget presented for 2016, has been downgraded compared to what it has been in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119224939	Yes, we can certainly agree on that. We have said from the government that we wanted to spend the money, among other things. The Danish Innovation Fund, that is to say, more strategically, but if the strategic priorities are kept up from the very, very large amount of money spent on free research and the basic appropriations available in universities, then it has to be said that there is a clear overweight compared to basic funds and free research. But we have said quite openly that we want to commercialise more of our research and create more innovation, and that is what the Danish Innovation Foundation has to do, and that is why we would have liked to see it, and it was also the government's initiative that the Danish Innovation Foundation had, in black terms, kept its level of funding with the consequence that the Free Research Council had been cut more. There was then the compromise that we reached with regard to the distribution of the research reserve, namely that there was a balance like the one we knew from last year, and I think that everyone can be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119225035	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160119225050	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 20 January 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
