ParlaMint-DK_20160401100018	The meeting is opened Today there are the following reviews, which I will mention only with numbers because of the volume and otherwise according to the previous: Martin Henriksen (DF), Dan Jørgensen (S) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Bill No. L 168 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of an independent, professionally based biodiversity council), motion for a resolution No. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a special nature and environmental prosecutor with special competences in the field of nature and environmental crime in all police circles), motion for a resolution No. Β 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the exemption of land taxation for land classified for nature for biodiversity purposes) and motion for a resolution No. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the removal of land from circulation by increased fertilization). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on accessible political material for disabled persons) and motion for a resolution No. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on physical accessibility to elections). Jonas Dahl (SF) and Christian Juhl (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the tax-free cost supplement for members of parliament and the introduction of a system for the reimbursement of actual expenses associated with parliamentary work). Josephine Fock (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on combating discrimination in nightlife) and motion for a resolution No. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a whistleblower scheme for public servants). May-Britt Kattrup (LA) and Jonas Dahl (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the equivalence of the sale of human eggs with the sale of semen). Trine Torp (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 130 (Proposal for a resolution on the amendment of the electoral age for the Folketing to 16 years). Henning Hyllested (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the law on the carriage of goods by road so that the whole of the vehicle can be detained), motion for a resolution No. Β 159 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on climate action through the conversion of the energy supply of the transport sector), motion for a resolution No. B 160 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on climate action through the efficiency of bus and other transport operations), motion for a resolution No. B 161 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on climate action in reducing transport growth through planning and driving charges) and motion for a resolution No. B 162 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on climate action through the efficiency of transport energy consumption). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a 2-year targeted entrepreneurial benefit), motion for a resolution No. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of an international entrepreneurship programme with two associated international entrepreneurship houses) and motion for a resolution No. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up the Centre for Social Economic Entrepreneurship, Enterprise and Growth). Villum Christensen (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to include thorium-based technologies in Danish research and development). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on sending refugees back to camps in the neighbourhood or to camps in other countries). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the obligation of employers to publish a job). Josephine Fock (ALT) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social and environmental sustainability in ATP's investments). Laura Lindahl (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of targets for the sex composition of management in enterprises and state institutions). Pelle Dragsted (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 141 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution exempting Danish mortgage loans from future Basel IV capital requirements). Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility for cooperative housing associations to convert cooperative housing into owner-occupied housing). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Orla Hav (S), Karina Adsbøl (DF), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the simplification of assistance for children with disabilities). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of municipalities to recover claims themselves), motion for a resolution No. Β 149 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the impact assessment of legislative proposals on legal certainty) and motion for a resolution No. B 156 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national action plan against radon in buildings). René Gade (ALT), Rune Lund (EL) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 145 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on greater transparency in Denmark's negotiations on double taxation agreements) and motion for a resolution No. B 146 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the application of the United Nations Model Agreement in negotiations on double taxation agreements between Denmark and low and middle-income countries). Andreas Steenberg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of heat pumps and the reduction of biomass). Rune Lund (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of data security). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 150 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the free testing of pesticide residues in the context of dietary advice for pregnant women) and motion for a resolution No. B 164 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the State Pool for PCB Renovation). Christian Poll (ALT), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 151 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of limit values for heavy metals in agricultural manure and degassed biomass from biogas plants). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Christian Poll (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the quota system for Danish fisheries and strengthening coastal fishing, local employment and sustainable fishing). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 153 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the dog law in order to remove racial prohibition and introduce ownership responsibility for dog behaviour), motion for a resolution No. B 154 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the sale and use of the herbicide Roundup and other herbicides with the active substance Glyphosate for private use) and motion for a resolution No. B 155 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the sale and use of Roundup and other herbicides with the active substance glyphate for commercial use and for public use). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and René Gade (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 157 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the involvement of the Democratic Union Party (PYD) and other secular groups in the peace negotiations in Syria) and motion for a resolution No. B 158 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reconstruction and humanitarian aid to Kobane and other devastated areas in Syria). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 163 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the limitation of noise emitted by motorways). Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S) and Rasmus Prehn (S): Motion for a resolution No. B 165 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the inclusion of goods transport by road for hire or reward in the law on the carriage of goods by road, etc.) Henning Hyllested (EL), Kim Christiansen (DF) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 166 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of a task force to monitor the commercial carriage of passengers by Uber). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the Council of Europe's activities and Denmark's participation in them R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 12 April 2016. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give Parliament a written statement on the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). R 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 12 April 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100510	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100532	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100552	The Social Democratic Party supports the resolution before us, just as we have firmly supported the other initiatives, civilians as a military, in the fight against ISIL. The reason why we do so and have done so consistently is that Islamism is a religiously based ideology that contains a totalitarian interpretation of Islam and whose ultimate goal is the conquest of the world by all means and the establishment of a global caliphate. We have seen and we have had countless examples of ISIL's serious attacks: mass executions, the persecution of civilians and systematic violations of human rights. I think there is reason to take note of the fact that this is a religiously based ideology. I think it bears complete comparison with the other great totalitarian ideologies: Nazism, fascism and communism, which share the view that they accept violence and genocide as a means of achieving a utopian society. All the different totalitarian ideologies we have consistently fought against in the Social Democratic Party. For us, it is totally unacceptable and, moreover, incomprehensible that there are parties in the Folketing which do not wholeheartedly support the fight against totalitarian ideologies, including military means. Of course they must be fought. The comments on the motion for a resolution set out the basis of international law for the Danish military contribution. We have taken note of this, because it is crucial that the foundations for our military action are there in the right way. There are very, very few conflicts, if any, that can be resolved by military means alone. It is therefore also essential that the fight against ISIL should take place not only militarily, but also through extensive and long-standing civilian interventions. Denmark has been, and must remain, among the most significant contributors to military interventions in Iraq and Syria. I also think it must be clear to everyone that there is a need to strengthen aid in the neighbourhood, both the help coming from Denmark and the help coming from the European Union. The military struggle against ISIL is not easy, but absolutely necessary. The UN Security Council has stated that ISIL represents an unprecedented global threat to international peace and security. Denmark must, of course, help to counter this threat, and we do so, among other things. by providing additional military contributions. Social democracy can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100854	Then it's first, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100909	Thank you for that and thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. When we look at the conflicts both in Iraq and in Syria, we see that it is a very, very complex picture that emerges, and we also see that there are some very extreme Islamist groups, such as the Shia militias in Iraq, who are fighting with the Iraqi army, particularly in Syria, in rebel groups which are both against Assad and against ISIL, but which are very, very extreme and Islamist. Is it not a concern for the Socialists that this proposal really opens up the possibility that extreme Islamist groups, both in Iraq and in Syria, can actually end up with military support? And will it be a demand from the Socialists in order to give their final support that it is clearly excluded by the government that it can take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401100959	In fact, I think this illustrates very well where the Enhedslisten stands, that is to say, that you conduct that policy of pure hands: if everything is not clean, neat and proper, we will not be involved in it. This is not easy, and it is also complicated, but if we do nothing and do nothing militarily, we are failing the values that we should stand on. Then we run the risk of supporting social systems that are completely in line with the other major totalitarian systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101030	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101032	This is not a discussion about whether to do something or not. It is a question of whether to do something that is right. And today the Enhedslisten has in fact made two other concrete suggestions as to what Denmark will be able to do instead. That is not what I am asking now or what the rapporteur should be dealing with now. What I am asking, and to which the rapporteur did not reply, is: should it not be a precondition for the Socialists that the government can clearly rule out the Danish military effort in Iraq and Syria from aiding extreme Islamist groups in one place or another, be it Shia militias, be it extreme Sunni militias?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101111	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101113	Well, the thing is that the question is the same, which is why the answer is also the same: that it illustrates the difference between the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten. The policy of pure hands that, unless everything is good, we will do nothing that leads to nothing happening is not our policy. Our policy is that difficult decisions must also be taken. We are also prepared that part of the answer is a military effort and I have certainly not heard Enhedslisten say that you are also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101145	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101148	Thank you. I would also like to begin by thanking the Socialist rapporteur for his statement. I'd like to follow up on that question, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen left earlier, because I think it is not only a question of whether to do something or not to do anything. It is also a question of whether one will benefit from the experience gained in military intervention. And there we can just note, also from the reports we have received from the veterans who have been sent to Afghanistan, that some of the things that have worried them most and which are important when we decide in here to send young people to war, that is to say, where they are sent to kill other people at the risk of being killed themselves, is that there is a clearly defined objective for it. One of their problems has been that when they and their comrades have sacrificed their lives and been out fighting for something, because we have asked them to do so, they have afterwards seen that the Taliban has taken over those areas again. Do we not risk exactly the same by sending soldiers down to Iraq and Syria to fight ISIL, which, after all, is responsible for a quite terrible ideology? If those to whom power is then delegated are other Shia militias, which are just as bad, what have we achieved by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101301	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101302	I think the most interesting thing in the speech was the obvious recognition that ISIL is a terrible ideology, that they support and stand for a terrible ideology. I completely miss the Enhedslisten's answer to what should then be done militarily. It is true that military operations are difficult. It is true that when our soldiers are out, they risk coming home with scars on their souls too. On the other hand, I also think it should be noted that the Enhedslisten has not been the ones who have taken the lead in helping to ensure that our soldiers have proper conditions before they are sent out, during the broadcast and when they return home. Consistently, the Enhedslisten has been outside all the initiatives taken to ensure our soldiers proper conditions before, during and after the efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101344	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101346	[Sound Falls]... home again. There Enhedslisten has made a great effort in relation to it. And I think the Socialist rapporteur has yet to answer the question of what it is to be expected to achieve with this effort. Because if we are to do this, which is very serious, it must be because we are absolutely sure that we can achieve something better than the status quo. And if that means that the forces for which we are going to give our support are Shia militias who have exactly as black an ideology as ISIL, then I think it is a very, very risky undertaking to send our young people out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101423	It's not enough to worry. You have to do something, too. And it is perhaps in fact one of the major differences ■ beyond the attitudinal difference between Social Democracy and Enhedslisten that we are ready to do more than worry. We are also ready to take decisions that are difficult and complicated, even if they have consequences that are difficult and complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101443	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101446	I think we all agree here in the Folketing that ISIL or Daesh, as it is called down there, is a terrorist movement that can withstand comparison with Nazism, communism and so on. We agree on this, and we also agree that they must be combated. Questions are about how best to fight ISIL. And does it not impress the Socialist rapporteur that the military efforts we have had in the Middle East over the last 10-15 years have been first in Iraq, so that in Afghanistan there has been no success in fighting terrorist groups? If you look at Afghanistan, the Taliban were indeed strengthened by becoming an occupying power in Afghanistan, because this meant that more people could be recruited for the Taliban. And that is also what we are afraid of about IS in Iraq and Syria: the more we enter militarily, the more they will be able to recruit new people for IS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101549	To be able to do that equation presupposes that you can do a counter-actual history writing, namely say what would have happened if we had not done anything. For good reasons, you can't do that. In other words, to say that nothing good has come of this presupposes that we know what the result would have been if we had not done anything. That is the one problem, namely that it is very, very difficult to measure. I am sure that the efforts we have made have been good and valuable. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is the question: what is the answer? If this isn't the answer, what's the answer? Should we then put the questioner's argument to the effect that we should therefore do nothing, which is not the answer either? I have said, and the Social Democrats have said, that there are two legs. There's the military leg, and there's the civilian leg. We are in favour of using the military leg. I have also said this in my speech just before that there are very, very few, about anyone, conflicts that can be resolved by military means alone. And I believe that some of the lessons we have learned over recent years are precisely that which means that there is also a need for a concerted and massive civil effort, which is being planned and which has taken place in this conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101706	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101708	So we agree that something can be done militarily, and that is why we also supported the air operation in Iraq last year or last year. But that then presupposes that there are forces on the ground with which you can work. And that is the difficulty in Syria. After all, there are no credible troops on land with which to work. That is why Danish soldiers come out in some very, very difficult choices about partners and enemy images. And does the Socialist rapporteur not agree that if you are going to war, you must have a very, very clear enemy image? And is it in Syria? Yeah, it's IS, I get that, but what about Assad? Is he an enemy, too, or is he a friend? What about Turkey? What about Russia? What about Iran? Where do they stand in the friend/enemy picture that we have to define when we send soldiers out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101807	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101808	The question contains a simplicity and complexity at the same time. The simplicity is that it is relatively easy to say who is the enemy here, namely ISIL. In other words, that is the title of the motion for a resolution we are debating. If you simply have to dig deeper into a marginal spade, can you see that there is, of course, the risk that you can say that if we go to the enemy of our enemies, we risk indirectly supporting the wrong ones? I think that illustrates the complexity of this. It's just not an argument for not doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101849	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101853	If, in all questions, we were based on the fact that the complexity is not an argument for not doing anything, then we risked almost every time doing something bad. I'm sorry. I'm gonna tell you straight. Now we have been using military solutions for 15 years and we have strengthened ISIL. Isn't there just a little reason to stop and think before taking the next step, instead of making a simplified version of headlines in order to leave again? I mean, if military solutions cause more problems than thinking, maybe it's a good idea to think. I would therefore like to say that there are other solutions. For example: I think it is absolutely insane to turn one's back on ISIL selling tons of oil through, for example. Turkey to Israel so that they can afford modern weapons so that they can afford to pay their young men with a fairly good salary as an alternative to unemployment. This should give rise to reflection even in the head of a Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401101959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102000	In the way the question is formulated, it gives rise to this reflection: can one at all imagine any situation in which Enhedslisten would support military intervention anywhere around the world? Isn't that the point? Isn't it the case that you'll never be willing to do what it takes? It's always the policy of pure hands. If there's the slightest bit to put off, you're gonna do that eternal left-wing act of disappearing from responsibility so you can stand somewhere and wash your hands and be clean, while the rest of us have to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102038	Thank you. You don't talk directly to Members. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102043	I would say to the rapporteur that if the solution to the problems is to send bombers, we are well enough at a humanitarian and human moral low point. There are many things that can be done politically. The rapporteur himself has repeatedly said that the solution is political. Now he says it's military. That dilemma alone screams to heaven. He did not answer the question of e.g. to isolate ISIL economically. Why don't we make much more of this? Why are not much more systematic initiatives taken there? By the way, I would like to remind you that the Enhedslisten, for example. have argued that we should properly arm the people who can really resist. These are people who everyone recognizes can resist, for example. Kurds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102132	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102133	But the nonsense that the questioner has just raised is based on the view that I should say that only military means work. I have, of course, made it very clear that there is a need for civilian intervention, too, that we have been, and must continue to be, among some of the most central and significant contributors to the efforts in Iraq and Syria. So it is nonsense to say that because I am standing here saying that there is a need to use the military tools, I have thus said that no other tools should be used. The only batch that has ruled out the use of any of the tools in the toolbox is precisely Enhedslisten, who has said that the military tool they will under no circumstances use ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102223	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102227	As we have already heard, we all agree on the need to combat ISIL. I'd like to hear something. If we are to decide today whether we want to step up our efforts against ISIL in Iraq and Syria in particular, then the rapporteur can help to clarify when that effort has been completed. Do we have an end goal? Can we say, like, that the effort results in an expected end? Is it possible to say when ISIL is not here anymore? Because it's hard for me to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102303	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102305	The fact that this is a complicated process should be an argument for not using military tools I get so tired, I have to say again, of the fact that the questioner starts by stating that one agrees with the need to combat ISIL, and then he says that there are a number of tools that we could use that we would not use. That is simply an incomprehensible argument for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102329	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102331	That was not necessarily an answer to the question. So I'm trying to ask you something else instead. Could it be imagined that we had another resolution and that it would rather be supported by the Social Democrats? It could be a motion for a resolution which, instead of saying that we must fight against ISIL, says that we want to stabilise the region and bring peace to the region. I am a little interested in the fact that, by fighting ISIL, we are saying that there is one terrorist organisation that needs to be removed. I see ISIL as proof that many different extreme groups are gathering in one place, and that is ISIL. So it wasn't to tease. It was simply to see whether we could approach some objective. Can it be said that at some point ISIL is no longer there? It's very hard for me to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102410	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102412	So we're back to the starting point a little bit. I and the Social Democrats regard ISIL as completely comparable to the great totalitarian ideologies, as completely comparable with Nazism, with fascism, with communism in their acceptance of violence and genocide as a means of achieving a utopian society. I think we have seen plenty and lots of examples in the way they have so far lived out that ideology. I think there is reason to do our allegiance to fight these totalitarian systems, just as the Social Democrats have done consistently when it was necessary in relation to the other great totalitarian ideologies. I think that the alternative should consider whether we should not join that fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102515	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102529	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we want to help fight Islamic State. The Islamic State is a terrorist organisation that has struck at very different places on the planet. The Islamic State has taken note of a particularly malicious and horrific method of terror and has, unfortunately, proved more difficult to fight than initially thought. Unfortunately, the Islamic State could also plan to strike against Denmark. That is why the conflict in Iraq is not just a Middle Eastern civil war. It's a threat to ourselves. That is why it is necessary to help fight down the Islamic State. This is the crucial argument of the Danish People's Party that Denmark should continue to be involved in the fight against Islamic State. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we can now again contribute more sharp weapons, with F 16, against the Islamic State. However, we also support the other measures covered by motion for a resolution B 108. However, there is one thing that concerns B 108, and that is the absence of an agreement to hand over any prisoners of war to the Iraqi authorities. In the Danish People's Party, we take the view that it is foolish to release prisoners of war immediately after capture. It can make a military effort pointless. It is quite unacceptable that one might have to put Danish soldiers in such a situation. We cannot accept the explanation that prisoners of war must not be extradited to countries that do not comply with the conventions. Because the alternative, either liberation or killing, is simply worse. It is no use taking part in the fight if you are too fine to use your common sense when it really comes down to it. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party, we urge the government to get this area under control and to get an agreement on the handover of prisoners of war to the Iraqi authorities. As I said, the Islamic State is a terrorist organisation that should be fought everywhere, not just in Iraq and Syria. Therefore, it is also creepy that there are Islamic State networks in Europe. It is disgraceful that Denmark has not helped to block the spread of Islamic State in Europe to a greater extent by subjecting the very large flow of refugees and immigrants that is currently being seen in Europe to closer control. However, it is good that there has been some control at the borders, but a screening to find Islamic State fighters would make the country safer. Because there is hardly anyone who can guarantee, as it is now, that there are no illegal immigrants in Denmark with ties to the Islamic State. There is no doubt that it is a good thing that Denmark is helping to combat the Islamic State in Iraq, but it would be even better if, in other areas too, we were to oppose the possibility of Islamic State spreading. The Danish People's Party supports B 108.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102828	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102834	Thank you. The situation in Syria, where Denmark now, if this goes through, is going to war, is very, very complicated. We see that there are very extreme Islamist groups on earth fighting Assad and fighting ISIL. We risk, of course, that these extreme Islamist groups will be helped by the military efforts of Denmark. Is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that extreme Islamists should have military support from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102902	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401102903	I am very pleased that the Enhedslisten had no influence on the Allied politics during the Second World War. Churchill and Roosevelt had to cooperate with one of the world's greatest criminals, Stalin, to defeat Hitler. I am glad that Hitler was fought, but he was only because an agreement was reached with a devil who was Stalin, who was then unfortunately later strengthened in his position. But it was necessary to conclude that agreement. That's the way it is sometimes. That's the reality. Then you have to take them one at a time, perhaps at another time, if it should happen that those who will fill the void after the Islamic State will also threaten Denmark. But what is quite special about the Islamic State is that it is a terrorist organisation which also threatens us in Europe. It is not certain that the other organisations, which, of course, are not very nice to think about, and I would hate to live in their area, will be out of touch with European objectives. So you have to use the funds you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103013	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103015	Thank you for that answer. It was actually quite clear: it is the policy of the Danish People's Party that with this military effort, which I hope will not be adopted, but which risks being adopted, we can actually risk supporting very extreme Islamist groups. The Danish People's Party supports this. Does the Danish People's Party really believe that we will have more stability in the Middle East if we support extreme Islamists? Do not recent experiences, both from Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, show that, when we throw bombs, we risk strengthening extreme forces that then create even more chaos? So, when the Danish People's Party wants to support extreme Islamists, could it not really threaten Denmark even more?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103102	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103104	When we support this resolution, it is to fight Islamic State to secure Denmark. It's not to fight extremism all over the world, because it's a pretty tough fight. There are quite a lot of strange extremists around in every corner and corner of the world. It's an impossible fight. But we want to secure Denmark against attacks by the Islamic State, which can emanate from the territory of Syria-Iraq. That is our objective. Then it may be that at times you get to work with someone who knows God is not God's best children. But the goal is to ensure Denmark's long-term security. It is necessary to combat the Islamic State in order to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103155	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103159	Thank you. I note in the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur is concerned about the part of the resolution on the extradition of prisoners to the Iraqi authorities. I am quite happy about that, because it is a concern that we share in the Enhedslisten. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur that it is important to have such an agreement, whether the Danish People's Party has any requirements as to what it takes to reach an agreement with the Iraqi Government on the extradition of prisoners so that they are not extradited to torture and the death penalty. Is it, of course, that it should be respected if it is the case that we should be able to extradite prisoners, a requirement that the Danish People's Party will be willing to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103241	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103243	We think it should be possible to extradite prisoners to the local authorities. It is no use either having to free prisoners or not taking prisoners, which means that you are going to kill some people you don't have to kill. This is an unfortunate and wrong situation. Of course, it is much better to be able to hand over to the local authorities, even if they have some conditions in prisons and storage facilities that would not be acceptable in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103315	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103316	Should I understand that the Danish People's Party will support the fact that Danish troops are helping to extradite prisoners, even though they know that they will be left to any death penalty and torture?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103328	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103330	If we cannot hand over prisoners to a prison stay in the area where we are fighting, we must not fight there. If Danish soldiers can put their lives at risk in an area, one must also be able to say that the prisoners who may be taken must of course be able to be handed over to the authorities that are now on the ground. I think that is perfectly logical and common sense, and I do not want to put Danish soldiers in the position that they either have to release people who may be a danger to themselves and others, or, worse still, have to kill them because there is no way to deliver them to a prison institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103415	Sir. Peder Hvelplund with a new question? Peder Hvelplund I have had two brief comments). We were a little insecure and consulted right up here, but it is good that the rapporteur himself is aware of this. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103428	Thank you. After all, Mrs Krarup, there is an additional possibility, namely that you can then take them into Danish custody and ensure that prisoners are treated properly if you want to go out on adventures with the military. It's just to say that you don't have to kill people because you can't figure out what else to do. If military fighting and military action strengthens ISIL, and it seems that it is an unambiguous trend that has been for 15 years • is it not an idea to consider political and economic efforts? It may be the matter of containing ISIL economically, for which nothing has been done. They sell oil on the market all over the world; they shovel money from those areas; they can pay wages to young people; they buy the world's most modern weapons. What is the reason for focusing so narrowly on a method that probably strengthens ISIL instead of weakening them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103533	Thank you. I would just like to say that you can take photos from the gallery, but you have to put a damper on it, because it disturbs quite a lot down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103544	The Islamic State has not existed for 15 years, so they have not been strengthened for 15 years. The Islamic State is weakened at the moment, and I am pleased about that. I am also pleased that installations dealing with oil production can well be valid military targets. So the things the rapporteur is calling for are exactly what is contained in this resolution. It is a weakening of the fighting power of the entire Islamic State in a wide range of areas, including the one on which they immediately make money. So Enhedslisten should consider voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103629	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103630	Now Enhedslisten has the principle that we do not vote in favour of something that we do not believe in. We will not vote in favour of a dubious military action without strategic considerations. It's completely pointless. There is no strategy in what is happening in Syria. You don't even know who your own friends are. One example is that during the negotiations, the first and second round of negotiations refused to allow Iran to be allowed to sit at the negotiating table. Now we have finally become wiser and have said that it may well happen that we must have the enemy sitting before us when we have to negotiate peace. There's no strategy. It's a neckless deed being done down there from the West side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103711	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103712	I completely disagree that there is no strategy. The strategy is to combat the Islamic State and hope that there will be negotiations between the other parties so that a stable region can be established. But first of all, the goal is to fight Islamic State so that Denmark is not at risk of terrorist attacks by Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103734	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103737	There are many things that could be taken up here, but when the rapporteur mentions the terrorist threat from the Islamic State against Denmark, and that is what this is all about, will she not agree that the fact that the Islamic State is under pressure from military forces because that is true means that the battlefield has been put elsewhere and that, as many experts agree, all the terrorist acts we have experienced are, to a large extent, a consequence of taking the war somewhere else and, at least in the short term, increasing the threat of terrorism? There is another question to which I would also like to return, and that is the question of the prisoners. I noticed that the rapporteur said that she would not be involved in sending soldiers away if you could not just extradite prisoners that you take. This is not what we are talking about here. A special task force is being created here, where you have to call home first, and that has, of course, been criticised by, for example, a great deal. Several of the military trade unions say it's a molbo-like way of doing it. That is why it is not right to have a clear relationship with how prisoners are to be dealt with in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103845	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103846	As far as prisoners are concerned, that is exactly what I am criticising and wishing to see taken care of. And I hope there will be. With regard to an increase in the threat of terrorism in the short term, we can say that it is true that it may be desperation that there are now these attacks in Europe. However, if this were to give rise to the fact that we are going to give up completely and that we will never fight Islamic State, because we risk that in desperation, just before they close and shut down, because we are fighting them in Iraq and Syria, they are attacking us, I think it is an exceptionally weak and relentless approach to the problem. After all, we have to try to combat the Islamic State in the long term and not give up right now because there is an immediate increase in the threat of terrorism. If we give up completely and give up fighting them, the threat of terrorism will certainly be constant and probably also increasing in the longer term. So we have to accept a short-term increase in the threat in order to eliminate it in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103953	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401103955	Yes, but it is true that you can argue that way. But it is also a recognition that the threat of terrorism has been increased at the moment and will also be further increased, among other things. Because of our military efforts. I think that's a good thing we're gonna make that clear. Where I think there is a mistake is when the rapporteur claims that when we have defeated the Islamic State militarily, the threat of terrorism is gone. That's the reasoning that doesn't hold up. Because it's deeper factors that are behind this terrorist threat that will replace other groups. It was thought a few years ago that when bin Laden was killed, Al-Qaeda was gone, but it wasn't gone. Nor will it disappear if you hopefully have combated IS militarily. So that's why it's a misconception of dimensions and something very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104046	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104048	But it is not a mistake that we are making, because we are well aware that this is an extremist ideology which will be present for a long time, of course. But that should not stop us from fighting against the supporters of this extremist ideology having a safe garden, getting a strong team in the Middle East from which they can then spread further. It is clear that when you cut one head off the dragon, other heads come out, but surely we should not accept that we have to live with dangerous dragons in the rooms. We have to fight them and hold them down and cut off their heads every time one grows up. But we must also recognise that, of course, some will come back, and that is something we cannot avoid. But we must not allow them to rush to earth without trying to fight them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104145	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104148	It's just for clarification. Is it true that there is precisely the connection to our efforts that when we send Danish soldiers to Syria and Iraq to fight ISIL we fully agree that it is a good idea to have ISIL combated in one way or another we increase the terrorist threat in Denmark and Europe? The example here of the dragons is actually very good, because many use the image that when we kill one terrorist, there are two new ones, either locally or elsewhere in the world. Is that a recital that the rapporteur shares? That's what it sounded like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104223-2	I do not think it is possible to escape the fact that in a desperation phase, which weakens the Islamic State, there will be a greater risk of attacks. However, it should not stop us from fighting Islamic State, for the aim is, of course, to avoid the Islamic State having an area from which they can strengthen their influence and thus, in the long term, constitute a constant and growing terrorist threat to the rest of the world. It has to be said that it is a minor evil with an increased terrorist threat in a shorter transition, namely in the transition in which we hope that we will combat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104300	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104302	In the alternative, we will demand a broader mandate and, with our eyes, a more rigorous plan if we are to say yes to military action. But can the rapporteur confirm that it seems that we can only defeat ISIL militarily by deploying ground troops? That is my firm conviction. We don't want to do this. We cannot see that there is a plan that justifies it right now, and we do not think that it should be Danish troops who do so at least not at the moment. However, does the rapporteur agree with me that it seems that this, among other things, is the case? are ground troops needed to actually get ISIL driven out of the areas we want them out of?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104335	We do not want to deploy Danish land forces, and we believe that the campaign seems to have positive effects as it is now, in other words with the cooperation and with the forces that are on the ground. That is why we do not believe that this will be necessary in the long term. We hope not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104356	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104411	With this resolution, Denmark shows that we are ready to continue to make a significant contribution in the fight against ISIL. The fight against ISIL is global, and therefore Denmark should also make our contribution. It is far from easy when the international community intervenes in conflicts in the Middle East, but the conflict in Syria shows what happens when the international community stays out of it. Non-intervention is by no means the solution, on the contrary. The civil war in Syria has developed far more bloody and brutally than anyone could imagine. The emergence of ISIL has been one of the results of the civil war. Perhaps it could have been avoided if the West had intervened in the conflict in the past. At least now we have a problem in the form of ISIL, to which we need to respond. Denmark contributes with special forces, F-16 aircraft and transport aircraft, and with the measures proposed by the government, the Danish contribution comes up to approx. 400 people. This is a significant effort which helps to make a difference in the fight against ISIL. ISIL poses a threat to the local population in the areas under the control of the terrorist organisation, but at the same time ISIL is also a threat to security here in Europe. We saw this with last year's bloody terrorist attacks in Paris and recently in Brussels. The organisation has both the will and the capacity to operate outside Iraq and Syria, which is why it is a security threat that must be eliminated. At the same time, ISIL is the target of young radicalised Muslims from all over Europe, including Denmark. According to PET, it is well over 100 people living in Denmark who have sought to fight against Syria and Iraq under ISIL's black banner. It is a huge problem for Denmark that these radicalised young people have a place where they can be further radicalised and receive concrete combat training. We can't just look at that passively. We simply have to remove the problem at its root. ISIL simply has to be removed from the surface of the earth. The organisation has no legitimacy whatsoever and therefore it makes no sense to try to negotiate with them. The brutality of ISIL is well documented. Public executions for small things are everyday in the areas controlled by the terrorist organisation. Even the most basic rights are being suppressed, and all protests are being fought down with a hard hand. At the same time, ISIL has committed unimaginable crimes in our common cultural heritage in the form of the devastation which, for example, has occurred. was committed in the historic city of Palmyra, Syria. Many members of the Folketing have visited the various refugee camps for displaced persons from Syria and Iraq in the neighbourhood. I myself have had the opportunity to visit a refugee camp in Jordan, and when you talk to those refugees, there is one message that is crystal clear. They want the West to help throw ISIL on the gate so that they can return again. Denmark cannot do this alone, but we can make our contribution, which this resolution will give us the opportunity to do. If Iraq and Syria are to have a future as viable states, this requires the removal of ISIL. We can't stand by while ISIL creates a helmet in the Syrian chaos. This will create even greater problems in the longer term. It is not an easy mission that we send Danish soldiers out on. However, we know from the past that Danish soldiers are making a great effort and that they have the right both professional and human ballast to be able to endure dangerous missions during distant skies. Danish soldiers simply do it excellently, and we owe it to our many sent forth great thanks for that. And I am sure they will also go to this task with great professionalism. The Left wants Denmark to take responsibility for our own security and for the world around us, and that is why we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104844	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104848	Thank you. When you read the government's motion for a resolution, you see that it is quite unclear who really Denmark is going to support in Iraq and Syria. In other words, should we support extremist Shiamuslim groups, which are controlled from Iran, should we give military support to Islamist extremist groups in Syria? Is it really the policy of the Left that such groups should have military support from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104921	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401104922	No, and that's why we're not doing it. Well, the important thing to stick to is that we are now fighting ISIL. ISIL is a threat, not least in Iraq, but indeed in Syria. And with regard to supporting Islamic extremist groups, the answer is: we do not. There are some concrete moderate forces in Syria with which we have close cooperation, with the coalition on the one hand and these forces on the ground, and of course we must make that work in everyday life. However, in relation to the extreme terrorist organisations ISIL and the others, the answer is: of course, we do not support them in any way. However, it is just important to bear in mind that if we want just any solution to the Syria conflict, then we must remove ISIL. I do not know whether Enhedslisten believes that, if ISIL has not been removed, some kind of political agreement will be negotiated in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105016	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105018	So I did not stand and accuse the Left of wanting to give military support to ISIL or al-Qaeda, but we need to be aware that in Syria there are parts of the coalition into which we are entering, which support very extreme Islamist groups, which even sometimes cooperate with al-Qaeda. Unfortunately, we see a country like Turkey doing this by arming extreme Islamist groups such as Ahrar-al-Sham, who are fighting alongside al-Qaeda in Syria. And that is why I would just like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left: what exactly are some groups Denmark is going to support with the military action in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105056	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105057	Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself has been involved in the briefing that was in the Ministry of Defence yesterday, where I also took part. That is why Enhedslisten's rapporteur knows very well that I cannot stand here today and tell you what kind of groups we support in Syria, because that would pose a threat to the groups concerned in Syria. So, frankly, I do not understand the seriousness of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is now trying to jeopardise the safety of these groups by trying to get me to name them. I have to admit, I think it's deeply irresponsible. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105131	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105133	Well, thank you. Well, I think these groups, no matter who it is, are in danger, so frankly, I think...
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105135	It's getting a little crazy. Nikolaj Villumsen I thought it was such an interesting question that the President would give me extra time). I understand very well that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen takes advantage of it, but that's why I have to interrupt anyway. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen is so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105155	It is true that many people have been to Jordan and visited refugees there. I have that myself at some point. It is also quite correct, as the rapporteur says, that when you talk to the refugees, they want ISIL thrown to where the pepper grows. They have largely fled from ISIL. But they also say that their children are different because they are without a future in Jordan at the moment, without a job. They can't see any future. They're being affected by ISIL. They are becoming more involved in ISIL. That is why it is so important to understand that this is not just a matter of having ISIL removed from the surface of the earth by military means, because they are also there in other ways, such as that. as part of a Sunni-shia conflict that is throughout the area, where many Sunni-shia Muslims have perceived the Islamic State as some that could protect them. That's why we need to see this in a far, far wider context than the military context that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105304	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105305	Thank you. In fact, I agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says you don't just have to see this in a military perspective. I don't think we do either. If you look at what we are giving here and now in aid to refugee camps, to the many refugees who have fled from ISIL's terror, then Denmark has, at the latest at the Donor Conference in London, doubled our commitment to support. In addition, we have been able to help in the liberated areas when they have been liberated from ISIL in relation to the removal of mines, etc. So Denmark is in goose eyes with all the way, both when ISIL is to be removed, but also when there is to be a civil building afterwards. Because I actually agree that we must take care of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105352	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105354	Well, that's not true. There is a discrepancy between what is spent by resources on military action and on civilian action. And what I'm just saying is that in order to stop the Islamic State, you have to be aware that they are buying young people. They give them money to go over. What do such young people have other opportunities than to move to the Islamic State? They'll have a future there that they wouldn't otherwise have had. What this is about is giving young people the opportunity to have a different future from that of the Islamic State, and that is far, far more important than military action, because the IS is spreading, also in Libya, in many, many places throughout the region. And that's what you have to have in the back of your head in all this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105441	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105443	First of all, yes, it is true what I say from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Secondly, it is important to maintain that ISIL is actually on the defensive militarily at the moment, not least in Iraq, where they have been turned back from many of the areas they had when they had the most. Even in Syria, as I remember, it is actually about. 10% the area which they had control of before, which has now been liberated. So it is not true that ISIL is spreading. And I just disagree with the whole perspective of the SF that you can do anything without removing ISIL from the surface of the Earth. I mean, you can't make progress in the area if we don't get ISIL removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105523	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105526	Thank you. Sometimes I think it's going to sound a little simplistic, so that it becomes such a mantra, we repeat that if we just remove ISIL from the surface of the earth, there are many things that are solved. There is also reason for ISIL to be there, and I assume that when the rapporteur talks about some moderate forces down there we have to support, it is not the Assad regime he is talking about. And that's going to be a de facto consequence of this. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is in connection with what the former rapporteur for the Danish People's Party had to say about the extradition of prisoners. Is it the view of the rapporteur and the Left that, if we are to send soldiers, there must be a clear agreement on what should be done with the prisoners who may be and that agreement must comply with UN laws? In other words, we will not hand over prisoners unless we are sure that they will not be extradited to the death penalty or torture. Will the Left guarantee that there is such a clear agreement before we decide to send troops?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105632	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105633	First of all, I actually mentioned in my speech that I believe that the primary reason why ISIL has prospered is that the West simply watched and allowed different people to slaughter each other in Syria. So I actually believe that this is a consequence of the fact that you did not dare to go in and address the problem. In relation to the specifics of the prisoners, I would like to say that this task force is now being set up, and I think that is the right way to deal with this, because it does mean that instead of the soldier in the field, who has to decide whether this is now a situation where someone should be taken prisoner, there are some experts who decide. At the same time, it is important to put cold water in our blood and to say that the only soldiers we have on land are special forces, which are there in a training capacity. The probability that they are going to get some kind of contact with someone they want to capture is as good as zero at the moment. So this is an extremely hypothetical situation, but I clearly support the task force solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105737	Sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105739	[Sound emission]... solutions. But now the rapporteur says that this is a completely hypothetical situation. I just think that the moment we decide to send soldiers who may be at risk of getting into that situation, it is reasonable that we have clear agreements and thus also have a clear agreement with the Iraqi Government on what we are doing if it is the case that we have some prisoners. Can a guarantee be given that they will not be subjected to torture or the death penalty if that is the case? This must surely be a prerequisite for us to decide to send troops, no matter how hypothetically it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105821	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105822	After all, it is important to say that we are not sending troops as ground troops. We are sending special forces, which must be there in a training capacity in relation to the Iraqi troops. This may change in the future, but then we have the opportunity, among other things. In foreign policy mention, to take up the discussion at that time. But so far they are there in a training capacity with Iraqi troops, and that is why it is without putting on percentages, because it is something that can quickly get wrong with an extremely hypothetical situation we are talking about at the moment. And I just want to say that in view of that, I think this telephone task force is the right solution. Then it is not the individual soldier in the field who must stand with the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105902	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401105906	Thank you. I think that the rapporteur of the Left came up with something easy by explaining who our friends are and who our enemies are in Syria. In other words, we are going to support some rather militant groups which fully comply with our worst description of ISIL. Is it really the case that the Left says that bad about it, and we don't mention that because it belongs in a briefing over at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that is good enough? It is a hard reality that we are going to be faced with the situation that we are going to support those we do not really want to support and who are just as dangerous and brutal as others, for example. ISIL. Now we can take this resolution and there are three closely written pages that describe it fine enough with it but there is not one word about the containment of ISIL financially; not one word about how the young people in the Middle East should get a job as an alternative to becoming soldiers at ISIL. What is this one-sided policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110017	Thank you. And then you don't whistle in the Assembly Hall or in the gallery to get in touch with each other. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110024	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we should support extremist groups in Syria: that is not true. I have said this on several occasions: of course we should not do it. The coalition has vetted, as it is called in Nudansk, some different groups, which are moderate groups in Syria, and which you go in and support. So to start trying to draw a picture of them as extremists a la ISIL or worse, as the rapporteur said, is simply factually wrong. Nor is the fact that the economic perspective of ISIL's earnings has been taken into account. We are doing a great deal from both the coalition and the international community, from going for it militarily in relation to the oil supplies, but also from pushing the various countries where there may be such traffic. So there's an extremely high focus on this, and there will be when we're militarily present in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110125	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110128	Well, the fact is, ISIL is richer than they've ever been. It may well happen that they temporarily militarily retired and thank God for it. But they are richer than they have ever been because they are ignored on the world market. There's no such thing as morality. There is something called surplus. It doesn't help to say that you do a lot of things about it. What is being done to contain ISIL financially? What is being done to ensure that there is ordinary civil work for young people instead of being lured into being soldiers at a high salary by ISIL? That is the basic question if you mean something by saying that the solution is political. And then we should not do dubious military actions as an alternative because we are powerless in the face of political solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110220	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110221	So, first of all, various oil transports and the like are military targets that could be hit. Secondly, it is important to maintain that the government has actually allocated 28.5 million. kr., which is to be used for everything from fighting the influx of foreign fighters to also providing specific expert assistance in relation to the whole form of financing of ISIL. So Denmark is actually at the forefront in this area. So what Enhedslisten is out to say is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110249	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110252	The debate sometimes gets a little locked up when we discuss this, because it ends up in a yes or no, not least in connection with this motion for a resolution. I would therefore like to reply to some of the questions that people often ask me and the alternative, namely whether it really is right that we do not want to remove ISIL from the surface of the earth. No, that cannot be right; we would very, very much like to remove ISIL from the earth's surface. That is the basis for what I am now asking so that we do not get back into that question. Does the rapporteur agree that ISIL, which, for various reasons, flourishes, among other things? If there is instability in an area, if there is poverty, if anyone misses the opportunity to see how the future can look bright to them, does the rapporteur agree that it is more obvious to enter into something that gives a complete truth, that is to say an extremism, when it is so? And is it also the rapporteur's experience that if we do not stabilise the entire region, Syria, Iraq, get the right players in power, then there is a greater risk that there will be more people who could join ISIL and this extremism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110354	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110358	If you look at the history of ISIL, you will see that it is the case that they only got their blossoming period when the West had been watching for several years in connection with the Syria conflict and had not chosen to go in and support the moderates who were very many, especially at that time in Syria. This meant looking elsewhere, people were lost, they wanted to rebel, and therefore ISIL got more and more support, while they became more and more familiar, so that various radicalized young people from the rest of the world could go down there and train in peace and in peace for air attacks and other things could go in and take an active part in the fight. It's a bit a la what you saw with al-Qaeda in Afghanistan before September 11th 2001. So I don't think I agree with the alternative, at least as I understand the alternative's position in thinking that you can deal with such a threat other than military, in the first place. After all, it is important that, once the military threat has been removed, we have to go in with massive reconstruction aid so that the inhabitants of those countries can see that they have a future. We fully agree with that, but it is the case that there will be a step before you can create stability, and it is called security.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110508	I guess you're meant as a man, because if it's meant as a man, it's okay. Then it's mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110519	In fact, in the alternative, we have never refused to go in and use military as the first step, if otherwise the plan was good and we were sure that there would be a good after-play and there was reserved what needed to be done precisely to rebuild civil and infrastructure. What is the problem for us is that we cannot see that plan right now. So at the moment, when we look at our efforts in Syria and Iraq, can the rapporteur say a clear 'no' to the question of whether oil interests have any bearing on the conflict we are currently seeing in the region? I ask so that the Danes who come along can get a slightly more nuanced picture of what we are actually up against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110559	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110602	I don't know what to say about that. Does the Alternative's rapporteur say that Denmark is currently deciding to send 400 Danish soldiers into battle because of lower oil prices? I'm shocked! I'm sorry, I am. We are doing this here because we are up against a terrorist organisation which also has Denmark as its objective, and we have seen with the examples in Paris and Brussels that they will travel a long way to exercise terrorism. We also know that with the way and brutality they are spreading in Syria and Iraq, the same must be linked to oil prices at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401110643	It is a very, very serious matter to go to war. Yeah, that's awful serious. If we look at the recent failed wars in Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, I think it is quite, quite absurd that the government is once again proposing that Denmark should go to war. The government is proposing that Denmark should go to war in another country. This time it's combat aircraft and special forces. In fact, I do not think there is anything that ISIL could imagine better than being allowed to fight Western forces. If it were not for the American invasion of Iraq in which Denmark participated, it would not have been possible for ISIL to gain such strength. But it is not just the Iraq war that has led to increased extremism. Libya is today a major chaos, as is the case in Afghanistan, where the Taliban are historically strong. Both in Libya, in Iraq and in Afghanistan, where Denmark has waged war and dropped bombs, there are now divisions of ISIL. We should learn from our experiences. The extremists are being strengthened by our wars and our bombs. Syria can become another failed Danish war party. The civil war in Syria is very, very complicated, and therefore I must also say that it is completely incomprehensible to me that we are in a situation today and are discussing Danish participation in war in Syria, without the Folketing being able to understand with which groups in Syria Denmark is to cooperate. Will Danish fighters end up paving the way for extreme Islamist groups, extremist groups backed by Turkey and Saudi Arabia • countries with which Denmark in Syria will become part of coalition? Will Danish fighters and now also special forces in Iraq continue to support the brutal and oppressive Shia militias run by the Iranian priestly dictatorship? Who will benefit from the intelligence and information collected by Danish fighters and special forces? And will this information through our coalition partners be passed on to Russia, yes, at worst Assad? Can the Ministers clearly rule out the possibility that prisoners taken by Danish forces could be extradited to the Iraqi authorities, who are working hard to use torture and the death penalty? Honestly, dear Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State, this is a mess! It is a mess that you ask the Folketing to take a position on, and frankly it is not worked through. Yes, even the basis of international law in Syria has been discussed. Is it really wise to go to another war, a war that could have disastrous consequences for the civilian population in the area, a war that could end up strengthening extreme forces, as previous Danish wars have done? It is even a war in which the government clearly does not know what exactly it wants, and which groups should be strengthened and supported at least does not know enough that they will tell the Folketing. The Enhedslisten does not want Denmark to go to war in Syria. We fear that it will strengthen the extremists. This has happened in Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan. Our opposition is not due to the fact that we do not believe that Denmark should take part in the fight against ISIL, on the contrary, but we believe that the Danish effort should be an effort that actually works. There is no reason to believe that the government's proposal will work. That is why, together with the Alternative today, we have presented an alternative package of proposals for Danish engagement in Syria. Instead of launching another failed war, Denmark must strengthen the peace process and humanitarian reconstruction. It will strengthen the local secular forces that fight ISIL. I think it is time for Denmark to change its foreign policy course. We have to bet on bets that will work. Let us be visionary instead of going into another failed war. Denmark can make a decisive difference if we support the local secular forces. Another failed war will only strengthen the extremists. That is why we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party reject war and yes to peace and reconstruction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111152	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111157	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to remind the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the Enhedslisten actually voted in favour of the intervention in Libya before it was told how bad an idea it was. Secondly, I think it is a little disgraceful to hear a long speech about everything you are against, and then you spend exactly 10 seconds telling us that you yourself have some other solutions that you do not really want to go into. You want peace and you want dialogue. Excuse me, who is it you want peace and dialogue with? ISIL? Will Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen joins some peace delegation to go down to Raqqa and negotiate with ISIL? Have fun, I'm just saying. A trip like that isn't something I'd sign up for. Thinks sir. Nikolaj Villumsen really that one can negotiate in any form whatsoever about something that just resembles peace, with the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111248	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111254	Thank you for the question. What went so terribly wrong in Libya? It was, of course, that you broke the UN mandate that lay. Denmark and NATO broke the UN mandate that lay and created extreme chaos. Instead of disarming militias, a situation was created where militias are now fighting each other after many, many years. What is Enhedslisten proposing? Well, I'd love to tell you that. Together with the alternative, we have today quite specifically proposed that Denmark should strengthen the peace process. Surely it cannot be right for Turkey and Saudi Arabia to succeed in keeping decisive secular groups out of the peace process, while their extremist friends in various extreme groups are allowed to join. We must then ensure that the secular groups are involved, otherwise we will not have a peaceful and stable development in Syria. Denmark should then strengthen humanitarian reconstruction. Surely it cannot be right that one should sit down in Syria and see that a city like Kobane, where one took the battle with ISIL, to this day, over a year later, still lies in ruins. It's a completely wrong signal to send. That is why we should increase humanitarian reconstruction efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111401	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111404	So I did not get an answer to my question, must we conclude: what is being done with the Islamic State? Do you want to enter into some kind of peace negotiations with the Islamic State, a terrorist organisation that, when they move into cities, kills children, young people, the elderly, women, etc.? Anything they can get near that doesn't support their warped outlook on life, they just kill. It's a terrorist organization worse than Al-Qaeda. It is evidently believed that some kind of peace dialogue can be made with it because you do not want to remove it militarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111438	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111443	I am not here to say that we must conduct a peace dialogue with the Islamic State. The difference between what the Left believes and what the Enhedslisten believes is that the Left will not tell which groups are now entering Syria to support it. There is a danger of supporting extreme Islamist groups, as has been the case in Iraq, where Shia militias have been supported. And there I have to say that we in the Enhedslisten do not believe that ISIL will be weakened by supporting local extremists and Islamists, or by supporting oppressive regimes. No, what we are proposing from the Enhedslisten is to support local secular forces that will fight for democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111523	Thank you. And then it's sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111527	Could one imagine that Enhedslisten would support a military action? Could it even be thought of as an option if, for example, one were to. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. If one now imagined that the opponents were known for oppression, and if one now imagined that there was a clear UN mandate, could one imagine that Enhedslisten would say: Our desire to save human life simply outweighs our reluctance to take military action? Is that even an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111608	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111611	Yeah, that's a possibility. So, looking at what Enhedslisten has done, one can see that Enhedslisten has voted in favour of Denmark helping to transport humanitarian aid and weapons to the Kurds in Northern Iraq in order to avoid the genocide that took place on the Ezidians on the ISIL side. We have proposed quite specifically here in the Parliamentary Assembly that Denmark should extend that support to the Kurds in Northern Iraq to the Kurds in the northern part of Syria. Specifically, we made that proposal while they were in a desperate defence struggle against the Islamic State that besieged the city of Kobane. It was voted down by a majority of the Folketing, among others. by the Social Democrats. So this isn't about whether you want to do anything on the Enhedslisten side or won't do anything. This is about my fear that this proposal will strengthen extreme Islamist groups, among others. in Syria. Instead, we propose on the part of the Enhedslisten: let us strengthen the peace process, let us strengthen humanitarian reconstruction and thus strengthen local secular forces. This is our bid to combat the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111725	Sir. Nick Hækkerup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111727	In fact, the rapporteur should not have answered yes. After all, the rapporteur should have said yes and no, because that is what was the truth when it was decided to support the military action in Libya on 18 March 2011 that was exactly on the basis of these criteria and when 10 days later the support was withdrawn. The truth is, you say one here and then do something else when it comes down to it. You'd never support a paper like that. But when it came to reality, based on exactly these criteria to protect humanity, and where there was a UN mandate, you wouldn't want to be on the Enhedslisten side. And the truth is that what this is all about is that you want to place yourself in a place where, for fear of your own shadow, you can be allowed to stand absolutely sacred.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111811	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111814	In fact, I think it is a good thing that the Socialists are raising the issue. Last autumn I had the pleasure of being with the Danish UN delegation to the UN General Assembly. And we discussed with several representatives there what happened in Libya. There is no doubt in the UN that there was a clear breach of the UN mandate that existed. That is also why Enhedslisten withdrew the aid. Instead of working on negotiations, instead of working on the disarmament of militias, bombings were just being carried out, and this led to a situation now where Libya is one great chaos filled with various militias fighting each other with all the weapons we never got taken from them. So frankly, the situation is that Enhedslisten was right and the majority of the Folketing was wrong. It should have been a united Denmark that withdrew support for the efforts in Libya when the UN mandate was clearly broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111915	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401111919	I think that Enhedslisten's moral compass is completely failing in this matter. I would like to ask Nikolaj Villumsen a question: How does he believe that the hundreds of thousands of people who are fleeing from Islamic State will look at Enhedslisten's reluctance to stop Islamic State? How does Nikolaj Villumsen think that the jasittias that are being tried out as people will see that Enhedslisten is opposed to defeating the organization that is committing this genocide? How does Nikolaj Villumsen think that the women who are mass raped, held as sex slaves, will see that Enhedslisten is opposed to defeating their slave owners and their executioners? How does he think the Kurds are going to view the Enhedslisten as opposed to our defeating the Islamic State? Sometimes, when you have the means, you also have an obligation to use them to do something good in this world. I understand that a whole lot of things can be feared, but it's also a fear that we're not doing anything and that these atrocities continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112028	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112033	Thank you. I hope it is clear that we in the Group of the European People's Party believe that action should be taken. When we oppose the proposal that the government is putting forward here to go to war in Iraq and Syria, it is because we believe that this proposal will do nothing. It will strengthen the extremists. I'm the only one in this hall that's ever been to Syria. I have visited the liberated Kurdish territories inside Syria. I've been talking to people there. I've been talking to a lot of rebels. What are they saying? They say that we have plenty of men and women in our secular groups fighting for democracy, but we do not get enough support. The proposal presented here by the government risks strengthening extreme Islamist groups rather than supporting the secular groups that are fighting for democracy. We in the Enhedslisten have proposed this time and again. We have among other things. presented a motion for a resolution in this Parliament to support the defence of Kobane when the Islamic State besieged the city, which the Conservatives voted against. This isn't about you wanting to do anything. It's about me thinking you're doing something wrong, and I think we have some sensible suggestions that will help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112144	Nor is direct indictment used for Members. We must try to comply with the Rules of Procedure which we actually agree should be here. And if you do not agree with that, you have to make other proposals. Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Rasmus Jarlov I would just like my second brief remark). Yeah, but then it would be really good to get in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112203	Thank you. I think it's out of the question, because I asked Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, how he believes that these people, whom he himself has been down to talk to, will see that Enhedslisten says no to military intervention. Will Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen really claims that these people who are being exterminated are subjected to genocide, mass rape, slavery and a total cultural destruction, will be opposed to the military defeat of the Islamic State? Will Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112240	Like I said, I've been to Syria talking to people. In fact, the Conservatives have also had the opportunity to talk to some of the leading opposition people. We had Mr. Salih Muslim, one of the leaders of one of the largest opposition groups in Syria, the Kurdish PYD, visited the Folketing not very long ago, and he said quite clearly: we do not need Danish fighter planes or special forces, we have plenty of young men and women who want to fight against ISIL; what we lack is weapons; what we lack is to be allowed to join the peace negotiations. And that is what we on the Enhedslisten are proposing, just as we are proposing that Denmark should strengthen the reconstruction effort, so that it turns out to people quite specifically that when you take up the fight against ISIL, as you did in Kobane, your house is not in ruins a year later. It is therefore a completely wrong signal to send out that we are not helping those groups who are actually afraid to take up the fight and who want secular democratic development in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112344	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112347	Today, once again, we have confirmed the rather curious double standard of Enhedslisten in relation to military support, namely that as long as it goes to Kurds, it is a long way along the way, and that has been done on several occasions, but when it comes to supporting other ethnic groups, we do not want it. And so let me simply ask: Was and is the Enhedslisten against the air support that American fighters gave to the Kurdish rebels when they defended Kobane? I think everyone agrees that Kobane would have fallen if there had not been the air support from the coalition. Was the Enhedslisten also opposed to that support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112426	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112428	I think that is a good question, and I am actually glad that Mr. Martin Lidegaard puts it down. Because, yes, there is no doubt that some of the bombings have helped. So, for example, the bombings at Kobane helped me visit the Turkish side of the border with Kobane when the fighting was the hardest, and yes, that helped the bombings. However, the problem with the proposal we are discussing here is that we are also opening the door to giving support to a large number of other groups, such as extreme Shiamuslim militias in Iraq, which we know are run by the Iranian priesthood and which are committing serious abuses, and that we cannot get a clear answer as to who is really to be supported in Syria, where we know that some of those whom we are going to be allyed with in the coalition, such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia, are in favour of supporting very, very extreme Islamist groups, which are also committing very violent acts of violence. And that, of course, is why we say it clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112529	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112531	But it is clear that for all of us, these are difficult choices, because when you enter an armed conflict, there are some things that succeed and some things that do not. Anyway, it was a bell-clean yes to the fact that it was good to help defend Kobane. Was it good to help free Ramadi, too? Was it also good that Ramadi, the city that has lived under a yoke of coercion and where the people have been subjected to terrible things, actually managed to free and the civilian population there, and that 95 per cent. of the people who were expelled from the city have been able to return and that there is now hope of a human existence for those people? Was it also worth supporting that action according to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112612	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112615	Well, again, I think that sir... Martin Lidegaard should be thanked for bringing up Ramadi, because I think that exactly Ramadi is an example of some of the problems that are giving support to the Iraqi army and their associated Shia militias. Because what we have seen in the liberations, as Ramadi and Tikrit call it, is that the Shiamuslim militias have committed very, very serious acts of violence against the civilian population. And I simply do not believe that we will weaken ISIL if we support extremist groups if we support oppressive regimes. So, I think that experience should teach us that those we should support are local secular forces that will fight for democracy. And that's why Enhedslisten says from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112704	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112708	Thank you. The rapporteur believes that the best way to combat ISIL is to support selected groups and factions in the neighbourhood, which will then be responsible for the real fight on our behalf. This also enables these factions and groupings to take over power in the neighbourhood. What right do the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think we have here in the West to appoint those who should rule and rule in countries other than those in which we live?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112743	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112747	I am glad that, after the debate, it is already clear that the Enhedslisten is in favour of thinking about when you go to war and having a handle on what groups you support. I understood from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party earlier that it is the Danish People's Party's new policy to support extreme Islamist groups in Syria. Frankly, does the Danish People's Party itself believe that giving military support on the Danish side to extreme Islamist groups will do anything good for the local population in Syria, for peace and stability in the Middle East or for Danes here in Denmark? Honestly, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112838	The Danish People's Party supports this proposal because ISIL, Islamic State, poses a concrete threat to Denmark and it must be defeated. As such, it has nothing to do with wanting to appoint certain groups that you want to support. But Enhedslisten does so, and the rapporteur avoided answering the question that I actually asked: by what right does Enhedslisten mean that we can go in and appoint those who must rule and rule other countries? What right do we have here in the West to decide who will decide in Syria? Because that is what you do when you go in and identify certain groups that you want to arm and turn into the new gentlemen in the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401112921	Well, it is quite right that when you support some groups such as the Enhedslisten and the Alternative today, you suggest that we do so, by saying that secular groups should also be allowed to join the peace talks, and that it cannot be right that Turkey should keep them out just because they do not like them, but let extremists in it is clear that it will mean something. It will mean something to the peace negotiations that there are also people in those who want democracy in a future Syria. But it will also have consequences when the Danish People's Party is ready to support extremist Islamists in Syria. It will then also have consequences for the people who are in Syria and who have to live with the dictatorship that they intend to introduce. Therefore, I just have to say to the Danish People's Party: it is completely incomprehensible to me that you have chosen this new course, where those you want to support in Syria are extreme Islamists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113010	The next brief remark is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113014	Mr President, I think there are many correct considerations in Mr Seligman's report. Nikolaj Villumsen's speech, including the fact that he brings out the Kurdish forces as collaborators with whom one has been able to work as some of the few on land. But since Enhedslisten seems to be putting all their eggs in the Kurdish basket, are we not, like, having to discuss whether we can count on it being an overall alternative to a future Syrian solution? Would it not be the case that the Kurds want an agenda that they want to have more autonomy in the Kurdish territories, but in itself will not be so interested in fighting elsewhere in Syria? In other words, can we expect, for example, around Raqqa, that YPG will also help there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113110	I think that is a good question. Actually, I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Holger K. Nielsen puts it, because it is nice for me to have the opportunity to say that no, the Enhedslisten does not believe that the Kurds should rule all Syria, nor that only the Kurds should be supported in Syria. On the contrary. What we think Denmark should do is to support the secular forces that are, both the secular FSA groups, the Christian groups and the Kurds, who are secular and who want a democratic Syria. What is to happen with regard to Raqqa? Well, it's precisely these groups that have gathered together, by the way, with American support and prepare to beat ISIL around Raqqa, just as they are trying to close ISIL's oil exports across the Turkish border. I think that is something that can seriously weaken ISIL. It is clear that the Kurds cannot take Raqqa, but secular FSA groups can do so, and that is where Enhedslisten then says: let us ensure that these moderate secular groups can be allowed to join the peace negotiations. I very much hope that the SF will support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113226	Thank you. Yes, I had actually decided that I would not take part in the debate, because there is no reason to draw so much attention to Enhedslisten's strange views on everything, but now the rapporteur persistently claims that the Danish People's Party wants to support extremist groups in Syria and Iraq. I have to refute that anyway, because it is too far-fetched. That is why I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: is it not the case that the Enhedslisten indirectly supports the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq and supports terrorist attacks in Denmark by not wanting to take part in the fight against the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113306	In other words, when I have had the clear impression, and I believe that all those who have followed this debate have been given the view of the Danish People's Party that Denmark can easily give military support to extreme Islamist groups in Syria, it is because that is what Mrs Marie Krarup stood on the platform and said earlier. It may well be that it was a mistake for Mrs Krarup to say so, but then we should not vote in favour of this proposal, because this proposal does not tell us which groups should be supported. It is completely unclear and thus opens up a barn door so that they can get support with this proposal. No, Enhedslisten in no way supports ISIL. We have made suggestions here in the Danish Parliament that the defence of Kobane should be helped from Denmark. The Danish People's Party voted against it. We collected money for the defence of Kobane, and we handed them over personally. So, what has the Danish People's Party done for the defence of Kobane, just to take a very concrete place in Syria, where there was a very, very bloody battlefield between secular groups and ISIL, and where the Danish People's Party failed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113413	Unlike Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party has supported an active military campaign against the Islamic State. The Danish People's Party doesn't support getting that straight, sir. rapporteur. What we are saying is that we support a concrete fight against the Islamic State, and it may well be that sometimes you have to work with some people who did not want to get power in Denmark, to put it nicely. However, as has also been pointed out in the past, the rapporteur, together with myself, has been to a briefing in the Ministry of Defence, where we have been given an account of who they are working with, and these are things which are subject to confidentiality and on which we cannot give our opinion. So it is simply not true what the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party wants to support and cooperate with extremist groups in Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113508	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113510	So, listen to me: no one here except the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs can mention which groups exactly are to be helped in Syria. On the contrary, we are faced with a situation in which the government is asking the Danish Parliament to support a military effort in Syria without wanting to tell which groups are going to have this military support, and it is well aware that there are extreme Islamist groups which are being supported by some of the coalition partners with which Denmark is about to go to war, among others. Turkey and Saudi Arabia. That's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113548	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113557	The most difficult decisions of all those we make here in Parliament are the decisions that mean that we send Danes out into the world on dangerous missions. These are not good decisions, but they may be the least of the decisions. That is also the case with the decision we are going to take today. We decide to reinforce the Danish military contribution to the international effort supporting Iraq's military action against ISIL and we assist the authorities in Iraq in protecting the civilian population from serious attacks. In the Liberal Alliance, we are convinced that the international community cannot resolve the conflicts in the region. Political and democratic forces in the region have the key, because if the local and regional will is not there, we will get nowhere. We therefore support Denmark's contribution for two reasons, which are essentially of protective character. First of all, we stress that one of the main objectives of our efforts is to protect civilians from the vile and cynical attacks and abuses to which ISIL recklessly exposes innocent people. There the international community has an obligation to make efforts to protect people who cannot protect themselves. The second reason is also about protection. We see an increasing number of terrorist attacks outside the conflict areas, most recently in Istanbul, Paris and Brussels, just as we ourselves have been hit here in Denmark. No human being should be able to justify attacks on others on the grounds of an ideology, whether political or ideological, and no human being can excuse terrorism, killing or persecution on the grounds of an unhappy upbringing or background. I think we have had a tendency to believe that most of the attacks that have struck Europe are due to the frustrations of lonely young men, young people who have been tempted by the primitive response of an ideology to everything, young people driven by hatred of the societies in which many of them have actually grown up. In fact, I think we need to take a look at the fact that there can be more systematic behind these attacks, a system that points directly back to long-term strategic planning at ISIL. The day before yesterday, the New York Times brought an excellent article under the heading: "How ISIS Built the Machinery of Terror. " It points out that the terror that we, among others, have. It is not as random as we may think, but is carefully planned and can be expected to increase. We must protect ourselves from this. That is why we need to engage, however painful and costly it may seem, however painful and costly it may be, because we cannot foresee everything and we cannot protect ourselves from everything. Denmark must support in three areas: military, diplomatic and humanitarian. The comments on the motion for a resolution call for civil action to be strengthened too, and we consider this to be absolutely crucial. I think we can all agree on the need to strengthen diplomatic action, but it does indeed require the willingness of the parties involved to participate on the terms that normally apply to such action. And here we can see that these standards are simply not recognised by ISIL. Then there is the military effort left, and that is what we are strengthening with this proposal. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113935	Thank you. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401113939	I can actually hear that far along the way we are very much in agreement with the whole problem of the situation and what needs to be done. I am with several of the parties today. That is why I think it is too bad that we often lack the nuances to understand what kind of conflict we are entering into. It is often the case that we have to fight with the military; there is no other option. Then we all say: but that is not what wins peace. I think that one of the things we need is information. Does the rapporteur feel that we have learned enough from past efforts at this stage to make this choice and to go back to war?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114013	No, I don't feel that at all. This conflict is so complicated that I do not think there is anyone, even the intelligence services, even our own defences, even those international ones, who have the best insight into these things that can understand it. In fact, I do not believe that there is any human being on this earth, whether there is a complete understanding of these conflicts. I also believe that we can learn better from the active participation of the past, but sometimes we have to make decisions, not because they are good, and not because the time is perfect, but because the alternative is simply worse, and that is what the situation is, as it is right now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114052	Are there any elements that the rapporteur would have liked to have taken part in here, in other words, specific points that had been highlighted before we started? It is quite understandable if it cannot be drawn forward in that it is as complex as it has just been described.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114105	Well, I wish we could shed light on and understand this conflict in all its details and all its complexity. I, together with other rapporteurs, have been to several reviews where we have tried to gain a deeper insight into what these conflicts really are. What's moving down there? And it's completely incomprehensible; it may be because of my own little ability to see through these things, but it's so complex. And that is why there are two things that remain on the bottom line: it is the protection of a civilian population that can no longer protect itself, and it is the protection of ourselves in Europe and in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114143	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114147	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his speech. I think that some of what is bad is that these debates will be too simplified when this becomes a polarised debate. So I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that the rapporteur actually mentions that this is not just about the military, but that there is both a civilian and a diplomatic angle that we must focus on. I think that is a good thing. There is then a place in the debate where I can no longer follow completely. In this debate it is always presented as if ISIL is the great evil that must be fought and if it is fought, it will certainly be better. I will then just have to ask where it is, the fundamental difference is precisely on the thought of ISIL and the thought of some of the Shiamuslim militias. The rapporteur talks about protecting the civilian population in the areas down there from abuse, but it is not only ISIL who commits them, it is also Assad; it is also some of the Shiamuslim militias. So where is the fundamental difference in the thought of ISIL exactly in relation to the Shiamuslim militias?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114300	I believe that there are many ideological similarities between what is happening in ISIL and what is happening with other militias active in the region. I think the rapporteur is quite right about that. What we are doing here is responding to a request that the international coalition, of which we are a part, has made towards Denmark. We'll say yes to that. This does not mean that we do not see that there are plenty of other unresolved problems that we are perplexed about: how are we going to engage in them, how are we going to deal with them? I completely agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114339	[Sound emission]... we intervene, because then we influence the situation. We go in and say that while we are fighting ISIL, we are helping to strengthen some of the others, because to some extent, whether we like it or not, we are being de facto allyed with them. And that means that we are thus helping to escalate a conflict. We may solve a major problem somewhere, but we may create a problem as much as we do because we support some militias who have exactly the same thoughtfulness and who treat a civilian population in exactly the same way as those we have fought against. So isn't that just helping to create a new problem on top of what we're trying to solve?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114417	I don't know, but I can hope for something. And I can help make the decision that I consider most right in this situation. What characterises moral and political dilemmas is that there is not just one decision that is the right one and another decision that is the wrong one. I believe that all the political parties in this House today, whether they support or oppose the motion for a resolution tabled, are aware that this is extremely complicated and that we simply cannot predict what is going on either if we support the resolution or if we had chosen to stay out. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114454	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114456	Thank you for the honesty, Mrs. Mette Bock. It is quite brave to say that it is totally incomprehensible what is happening down there, but that one will nevertheless support a coalition that will bomb. Now I have never considered bombing in an area to be a particularly good protection for the civilian population. I could even understand it if we put the UN on the ground more than it is now and then tried to find some negotiated solutions so that we got a ceasefire in parts of the area. But you want to bomb in an area where you might also be in danger of hitting the civilian population. I believe that it is almost impossible for the Danes to participate without there being a risk of also hitting the civilian population. We'll see about that afterwards. The Liberal Alliance itself has demanded that we analyse the previous wars properly. Wouldn't it be better if we had the certainty that we knew who we were working with and what could happen about what we're doing before we do it? I think it's a pretty serious thing to use bombers and military. I could even understand it if it was something that could be restored, but it can't when you use military.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114606	I admit that we have to face the fact that there is a risk that, in the most unfortunate case, this could also affect civilians. But if the alternative is that we do not restrict ISIL's access to bomb, kill, terrorise, torture civilians on a large scale, then I think that alternative is worse. I don't even think that the whole thing about having complete certainty about who you really go in and cooperate with in a conflict like this one. Christian Juhl believes we can ever have. But I'd like to hear if that's the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114644	In this case, I just wanted, for example, that... The rapporteur of the governing party or other rapporteurs could make it possible for us to work together with those who are in a position to deal with it. That's quite interesting. I am really looking forward to the Minister explaining these things. But I would like to ask: does Mrs Mette Bock think that the best thing has been done in the political field; in the humanitarian field; in the dam of ISIL; in order to provide an alternative to the young people so that they can do something other than become warriors at a high salary at ISIL? I believe that there are solutions other than military solutions to this problem, which must also be implemented. That does not solve it right now and neither does military solutions. Does Mrs. Mette Bock think they're on top?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114731	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114732	As I mentioned, there are three legs you can walk on. There is the diplomatic, the humanitarian, and there is the military. All three legs are important. I have attached great importance to the fact that the comments on the motion for a resolution also state that civilian action must be strengthened. As far as diplomatic action is concerned, I am quite sure that more can be done and that we need to think in new and different ways than the ones we have been thinking in so far. The problem is, of course, that if diplomatic action is to be taken, it presupposes that the parties involved are willing to sit around a table and talk to each other. We just have to say that the logic that drives ISIL is a different logic from that which normally drives such processes. It's just a reality we have to face. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114821	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114824	It is true that there are many dilemmas here, and one of them is the regime. I hope we agree that it is the Assad regime that has created these problems. And what we then come to presumably, we do not quite know that is to a great extent to fight with the regime against the Islamic State. I'd like to know if this is something that the Liberal Alliance has thought through. As far as Raqqa is concerned, where there will of course be an effort to free the city, we know quite specifically that the Assad regime and the Russians are very keen that they are the ones responsible for that liberation. The Americans probably want to come too. Can we imagine getting into some kind of conflict in connection with the liberation of certain areas? And again, if we manage to free some areas alone, who will have control over them afterwards? Is it the Assad regime or who is it? I mean, there are so many unknowns. Of course, there are often, but here I think they are so present and so urgent that we need to discuss them a little more specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401114943	I wish I could answer Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's excellent and very precise question. I can't, and I just don't think anyone can. That is why I would like to insist that the justification for supporting this proposal by the Liberal Alliance is not that we can solve long-term problems by intervention and win peace in the long term. A number of other instruments are needed. Our explanatory statement is primarily of a protective nature. We want to contribute, together with the rest of the international community, to the protection of a civilian population which cannot protect itself, and with this effort we want to help protect what threatens Europe and Denmark as well. The fact that in some situations we may be able to fight shoulder to shoulder with Assad is just a reality we have to face. And it was, in fact, a reality that was present when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen was Secretary of State. Unfortunately, this is the way the world is organized.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115046	Yes, Assad was there. That's right. But it was not the policy that one should work with Assad, not my acquaintance at least. I was never part of that. But would the rapporteur not agree that Assad is an equal threat to the civilian population? Well, if they're going to be threatened by anyone, it's clear that IS is a threat, but Assad has been a major threat. Assad has killed far, far more than IS has, driven far, far more than IS has. The Russians, who support Assad, have committed serious war crimes, have recently simply bombed hospitals several times. What I mean is that there is no clear relationship with what we should do if we come in close contact, if I may say so, with the regime and with the Russians. Are we gonna work with them, or what are we gonna do? And again, if an area is liberated, who will have control over it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115145	I simply cannot answer those questions. But what I can answer is firstly that if anyone wants to help protect a civilian population, then I think we should work together to protect that civilian population. And there is a huge challenge to which I do not think anyone can see a simple solution, and that is that ISIL is a huge threat, not only in the local area and in the region, but also in Europe and in Denmark. Secondly, I would like to say that Assad is a bandit. He is one of the greatest criminals in history because of what he does to his own society. This resolution is about combating ISIL. The problems surrounding Assad do not disappear because of this motion for a resolution. And our commitment to getting something done about the regime, which can lead to something that is at least no lower than what is now, must of course continue, but it is not part of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115243	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115245	Thank you. I am pleased that Mrs Mette Bock highlights the importance of the peace negotiations, and I therefore hope that the Liberal Alliance will also be in favour of the proposal put forward today by the Alternative and Enhedslisten and which we will discuss at another time to ensure that secular groups are also involved in the peace negotiations. Because, unfortunately, we have a situation right now where large secular rebel groups are being kept out. However, what I actually signed up on the list of speakers to ask is in connection with this debate which is going on about which groups we should support in Syria. I would just like to hear from the Liberal Alliance: is it not worrying that we cannot get a clear response from the government on which groups we should support? Is there not a danger that we will be supporting very extreme Islamist groups who are there and who will create even more chaos in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115348	Yes, there are major unanswered questions, and there is a great risk associated with this mission and the further efforts we are making, as is clear from the comments on the proposal. There is a very high risk associated with it. Do the government have answers? The government probably and hopefully has better answers than I have as rapporteur, but we are still waiting to hear what the minister has to say here, so I simply cannot answer that exhaustively. Whether the Liberal Alliance will support the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I cannot say for good reasons. I have not read the proposal yet, but the point that anyone who can influence the establishment of a lasting peace must have an influence on it, I agree in principle. But that does not mean that I agree with a resolution that we in the Liberal Alliance have neither seen nor had the opportunity to discuss yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115440	That is clear, but we will have the opportunity to discuss it at another time, and I look forward to that debate as well. What I would really like to hear from the Liberal Alliance is where the limit goes. In other words, when will the Liberal Alliance say: okay, listen, these are simply not groups we believe will help to bring peace and stability to a future Syria or Iraq? We know, for example, that... These Shia militias, who are being run from Iran and are fighting with the Iraqi forces, which we support, are committing serious acts of violence. We still need answers to what groups we need to support inside Syria if this proposal is adopted. But where is the border of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115524	It is simply impossible to answer, because I do not know any future requests for further support here. But I think that as politicians we need to have the courage to say that there are decisions that are simply not easy to make and decisions where we have to make them without it being on a fully informed basis. There is no fully informed basis here. We don't know what's gonna happen. My limit to what I think is nice to be involved in deciding has long since been exceeded. It's exceeded every single time we send Danes on dangerous missions. But, as I said, we in the Liberal Alliance regard the alternative as even worse, and that is why we support it here. We are confident that the international coalition in which we form part actually does things as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115615	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beazley. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401115622	In the alternative, we think that we should have the courage to make the right decisions, even if there are other decisions that actually seem more right at the moment. It is certain that if the resolution was different; that if the procedure were different; that if our history were different, then with the snapshot we see of the conflict and the Islamic State as an organisation, it would be because it had been decided that you would never use military, that you could say no to this. We have not yet made that decision in the alternative. We will not say that we will never be involved in military intervention; on the contrary, we have recently supported action in Mali. The problem is just that we simply cannot see how the conflict will be resolved by the efforts we are going to contribute to if we say yes to strengthening efforts against ISIL by deploying more military forces. We believe that a completely different and long-range process is needed. That is why it is so bad when we in the Danish Parliament are constantly looking for the places where we disagree. The whole parliament sounds to agree that we want to fight ISIL, that we want to fight terrorism, but we disagree on how. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative have tabled a number of motions for resolutions which come up with a different approach. We want to ensure that there is a broad representation in the peace negotiations that are taking place, however difficult it may be to implement them. We would like to spend more on the many, many millions that we need to spend on the war effort......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because it is not just Islamic terrorists in the area that are attracted to this; it is also all sorts of other groups around the world who suddenly see an opinion. They get a truth that they can believe because they have been radicalised for some reason. And that's why we don't stop ISIL, either locally or around the world, by removing them from the surface of the earth in this area where we bomb. I think it is simply devastating for our belief in the alternative that global international solutions can be reached, that we are so close to agreeing on what is right when we stand and discuss it in the Parliamentary Chamber, but then reach out to where it is, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and, in this case, the SF are almost insane and not responsible because we want to look at another solution. After all, we agree on what we need to achieve. We must achieve security in the area, we must achieve stability and we want to remove ISIL. And in the alternative, we would also like to help to say that we have to remove ISIL from the surface of the earth. We just experience that ISIL also exists anywhere other than such physical on the earth's surface; they also exist in the heads of some. It's a way of thinking and a way of acting as a human being. It is a truth for some people, and we cannot bomb ourselves to avoid it. So if we are to believe that there are some solutions that we can get through internationally, we have to stop here in the Folketing putting it out as if the solutions are black and white. There is a possibility that in the long term we can sit at a negotiating table and get this sorted out. We need a much broader UN mandate and we need to push much more for that UN mandate to be put into action. That is why it is mysterious for me that in a hall with such competent people I am new to politics so openly to reject it when I say, for example, the word oil interests, so that it has no role whatsoever in this conflict. The response of one of the other rapporteurs, when I mention the word oil interests, is such a journey up and simply stunned to say: it has nothing to do with this. And then it turns to a question of whether the alternative really believes that Denmark is going into this conflict because of oil interests. No, that's by no means what I'm implying or saying. I believe that Denmark and the government have all the best intentions, including with this resolution. I have great respect for the belief that we can resolve the conflict and secure citizens, secure civilians, as the Liberal Alliance mentioned just now, with this resolution. We just disagree. It has nothing to do with us shooting someone in the shoes, Denmark going into this because of oil interests. I just think that we owe it to the Danish people as politicians who have an official job, that is to say enormously competent people who sit and tell us how things really are to help people get a more nuanced picture of what this is for a conflict. That is why, in the alternative, we can only say no to saying yes to this motion for a resolution. It is simply too black and white depicted, and this is not going to bring peace to the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120153	We have a brief comment to make. First, it's from sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120157	Thank you. We continue to repeat and say that it is not black or white, and we also have a solution to combat ISIL, which we would like to see removed. And then you leave it for a little while. Now I have had the opportunity to read the many proposals of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. It's very easy because they don't take up much. These are two proposals. One is that you give a few hundred million kroner for humanitarian aid, and the other is that you want, for example. The Kurds to the negotiating table. Period. It is simply the solution of the Alternative and Enhedslisten to fight ISIL. I'm sorry, then it's black or white, because then it's as black as it can possibly be, when you really think that this way you can stop a terrorist organization by not addressing how to get it out in any way, but by just hoping for good weather. I hope for good weather too. I'm usually a very optimistic person. But now we have a conflict that has lasted for over five years, and that is why we have to say more than just good weather. We also need to take the threat seriously, not least for the sake of the many victims who have been and are still in favour of ISIL's actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120307	The rapporteur and I are going to have a lot of good discussions about this, because that is what I really wanted to try to avoid, i.e. we are going to shoot each other in the shoes. The motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten and the Alternative has just been read out this morning. Michael Aastrup Jensen's party, so that we could see what it was and so that we could have an open debate on what we were actually proposing and precisely agree that it is certainly not the truth, or that it is certainly not the only clear way to achieve peace in the region to say yes to our two motions for resolutions. We just think it's the right way to start it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120341	Well, we are talking about 5 years, 5 years, when children, women and other civilians have been slaughtered, who have stood in the way of a terrorist organisation that does not want dialogue but simply wants to take over power in the areas where they come forward. We are talking about a terrorist organisation which is making terrorist attacks in Europe and which also believes that they have Denmark as their target. And there's what they say: Well now we start up, and then we may find a solution a little later. I'm sorry to say this, but I think that everyone, including the voters of the alternative, is expecting a slightly clearer answer than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120421	We can talk about how many years have been leading up to this conflict that we are looking at. We can say that we should have gone in five years ago and done something more. We were not there in the Folketing, and therefore it is very easy for me to stand and say that it may then be that we had had a different attitude at that time because we thought the plan was more obvious and that there was more hope that it could provide a real solution to the conflict. I'm not gonna be able to say that. I just think it's too bad it's done so black and white. We come up with two solutions on how to start a real peace process in which we involve all parties. We find it difficult in this House to involve all parties because we find a few words that we can shoot each other in the shoes where we can make some people think: Is it really not for the Danes that they are standing and doing this? Yeah, it's for the Danes, we're doing this. We believe that this is the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120503	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120505	I actually think it's true when Mr. Knox... René Gade points out that all parties here in the Folketing support both diplomatic and civilian efforts, humanitarian efforts, attempts to stop the financing of Daesh, etc. That's right. But what we are discussing today is, after all, the part of the trail that is about the military contribution, and I understand that it is not on principle that the alternative says no today. It's not like you always sign off on this. That's what makes me ask, sir. René Gade: Is it all the military intervention against Daesh, both in Iraq and Syria, the alternative is against, or is it the Danish contribution to it? Thinks the alternative would have to be drawn all planes, troops, etc. Is it only the specific Danish contributions that are being turned against?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120607	I believe that the fight against Daesh must be supported to such an extent, including militarily, because it is not yet possible to get them to the negotiating table, and if we want to reduce civilian losses and ensure that other forces can flourish, I think the military is a necessity. Unfortunately, I am just in the situation where I think ground troops are needed to do this, and I do not want to send Western troops, including Danish troops, into the region in any way, because I think that there is simply an experience and a history that makes it by no means stabilise the area. There is simply too much scepticism about what interests we bring in. It may be completely unfounded, but that is the situation right now. I am ready to support the forces on the ground. The rapporteur had before an example of a simple action supported by the American Air Force and asked whether it was also opposed by the Enhedslisten. That is what makes the conflict so enormously difficult. It is actually a good thing that support is given when it is needed, also to those local forces who can help, but we just need to have a foundation so that we ensure that that support does not produce more problems than it solves. That's kind of what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120722	In other words, the alternative supports the coalition's efforts to provide support to the people who are trying to free rural areas from Daesh, and that the alternative is also, as it were, pleased that, for example, Ramadi has been liberated and refugees have been able to return home. But is it not a rather strange position to say that it is acceptable for others to contribute militarily, but that Denmark should not make its contribution? I kind of agree that this is difficult. One will be able to hear in a moment that, in a way, I agree that there are many difficult things and difficult decisions ahead of us. This is not an easy decision at all. But I just feel that if you think it is necessary to have a military track, you should also contribute from Denmark, or with what moral legitimacy can you say that Denmark should not contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120811	The first step towards achieving a peaceful solution down there, I think, is that we have the right people on the table to achieve this peaceful solution. I simply cannot defend the fact that Denmark is sending the military if we do not believe that we have the answer to when this conflict ends. I do not think it is right for Danish troops to go down and fight for a final goal that we do not actually know. To the extent that other countries choose to do so, I can only say that I would like all of us to give priority to emergency aid and infrastructure building and to support the forces that can make this rebellion themselves. Right now, that chance is almost missed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120845	Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120847	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on that, sir. Martin Lidegaard said. Should I understand that in the alternative it is not, in fact, because you are opposed to military action, it is right that the international community should be involved, you are just opposed to Danish contributions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120904	No, as I said, we have also entered Mali and supported the efforts we are making there a few months ago. We'd like to contribute. We have no policy that Denmark should not have a military or not be allowed to participate militarily in conflicts. We just want to ensure that we do this in the right way and that we have learnt from the mistakes that have been made in the past, so that when we send military contributions, it is because we believe that we are actually creating a solution and not increasing instability for perhaps 15 years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401120930	Now the rapporteur has said on a number of occasions that it is very important not only to see things black and white, but that it is complicated, nuanced, and I think most people are in agreement on that, but what is the real reason why the alternative of the approach presented by the rapporteur cannot both present this resolution on more humanitarian aid and so on, which unfortunately I have not seen yet, on the one hand, and then say that we have to play on several strings, and that means that we must also tackle the way in which the resolution here is? I would also like the rapporteur to say something at the end about the following: when support was given to the work in Mali, was it because the alternative could see exactly what would come of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121014	There are all kinds of good reasons why we can support action in the area too from the Danish side, but when we have to decide whether Denmark should join military forces in such an operation, we have to know exactly as I said before that there is a solution ahead. Whether it is in Mali or Syria or Iraq is a balance, so I cannot say it in general, as the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance also said before: it is simply impossible to say what is going to happen in the future. So I just want to say that we haven't seen a plan at all. On the contrary, we have heard the political rapporteur of the governing party say months ago that it was very difficult to see more than six months ahead. That is why I simply do not see a plan to put in a Danish effort here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121101	Then there's Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121105	Let's try to put ourselves in the place of the victims. There are women being held as sex slaves, mass raped by Islamic State warriors. There are women who are buried for life, after which there are adult men and bulls in their heads until the women are dead, if they have cheated, for example. There are people who get their hands chopped off. There are prisoners of war or other innocent civilian men who are hounded, lined up and shot. Thinks sir. René Gade, that these people are most concerned that we have a nuanced dialogue in the Danish Parliament, or does he think they'd rather some soldiers come down there and stop these atrocities? I mean, what's going through the head of these back-tied men right before they get a neck shot? Is it: I really wish they had a more nuanced democratic dialogue in the West? Or is it that it might be nice if someone came down and stopped these completely insane acts that are going on down there, mass rapes, genocides, ethnic exterminations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121212	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121214	The rapporteur almost gives me the answer. I believe that the individual people affected and those whom we would like to protect, among other things. by choosing the right long-term solution on the part of the Alternative, of course not thinking at all about what we are talking about here in the Danish Parliament. I don't think they know what's in place. I believe, on the other hand, that they are interested in those who come and help in their area and those who really want to help them to a future where they can live in a different way with greater security, that they really think it through well and look well at their approach, the one who has worked and the one who has not worked in the past, and then try to do the best possible. But if we constantly take scare examples of the atrocities that happen to individuals, we will never get a level higher where we actually dare to say: maybe it is not right to send military, even though it seems right for all of us to destroy terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121305	After all, we are all full of doubt as to what is going to happen. We all fear the risks that can be triggered by military action. There are huge risks to it, but there is a certainty that if we do not act, the atrocities continue, and it is too convenient to just say that, because we fear some risks, we choose to stick our heads in the sand and not act. There are plenty of examples of failed military interventions in history, but there are also plenty of examples that passivity has cost genocide and atrocities. I do not have to mention Rwanda, for example, where 800,000 people died in 100 days because we did not intervene. So when you have some risks and you have the certainty that something absolutely terrible will continue, how can you just choose so confidently not to act? I find that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121353	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121355	If it has come to the conclusion in any way that it is an easy decision for the Alternative that I stand quite confident and say that I have the truth, then it is at least wrong worded by me. I don't think I did. I think it is essential to look at the fact that there are also people in our military, people who have been deployed many times, people who have really good insight into this and also experts in the field who say that it may not be the best thing if Denmark wants to ensure peace in the area, to send this particular contribution. So this is not something that I stand by myself in the alternative, and I think it is a very, very difficult decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121423	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401121435	It is always a big and heavy decision when the Danish Parliament has to consider sending fellow citizens out into the world to contribute with military efforts. The first question one has to ask oneself as legislator in this context is of course: is military action necessary at all? And I have to say that when you look at the situation in both Iraq and Syria, I find it hard to see that you can do without the military leg in the fight against Daesh, as I call them. I call them Daesh because that's what they don't want to be called. Therefore, the answer to the first question is very briefly stated that it is necessary. I think that the progress that has been made, not least in Iraq, in recent months confirms that having military action makes a difference too. The second question that must be asked is, of course, what kind of military contribution should be chosen? And there I very much agree with the rapporteurs, both those who are in favour and those who oppose this resolution, who say that it is vital that Denmark learns from its experience. That is why the Radical Left also replied when the government asked us that three things should be in place before we could support this resolution. The first was that the military aspect was not alone: a broad-spectrum approach was held so that diplomatic efforts, stabilisation efforts, humanitarian efforts, attempts to stop the flow of funds to Daesh, attempts to stop foreign fighters, all the tracks that the coalition has, were taken as seriously and strengthened as they are now going in to strengthen military action. And we are pleased that the motion for a resolution makes it so clear that it does so and that the government has agreed that every time you take stock of the military action in the area of foreign policy, you are ready to take stock of the other tracks in the fight against Daesh. The second demand we had from the radical side was that we should have an answer to what we are doing if, contrary to expectations, we find ourselves in a situation where Danish soldiers take prisoners of war again. What do you do to them if you cannot immediately release them if they pose a security threat, if it is Danish foreign fighters, or if it is a different situation? The government's answer is that in addition to the military manual being almost finished, we hope it will come before any people are sent out again... is set up a so-called task force which, in situations where people cannot be released, finds out what to do, so it becomes a responsibility that is handled at home and not by the individual soldier down there. In fact, we think this is a sensible arrangement. It does not solve all the problems, because there will be dilemmas, but it ensures two things: paragraph 1, that there is transparency and a total overview of what is really going on in this area, and paragraph 2 that there is a political position on what is right to do in the individual situation and, ultimately, that there is also political responsibility. This is a crucial difference in relation to the legal situation in this area during the first Iraq wars and, as it were, in relation to Afghanistan. The third and final requirement we had was that there was a clear goal, a clear view and a clear option for exits in relation to these bets. There it has not been possible for the government to give completely clear answers to everything that is going to happen in the future, for the simple reason that not a devil knows what is actually going to happen, especially in Syria. It is precisely for this reason that we also need a flexible mandate so that we can do what we have to do at very short notice in order to achieve what is the ultimate objective, namely to free the areas occupied by Daesh. In addition to the first phase of the operation, which is a training contribution in Iraq, as far as the specialist element is concerned, that is to say, the mission which lies in the first task, and which will move either into Syria or have other activities that are significantly different, the solution has therefore been that the government has agreed to consult Parliament in addition to, of course, consulting it, because we must, and of course we also support it, take a political consultation with the parties which support this motion for a resolution before even putting, if I may say, the pen for the paper, so that we have the opportunity to influence and the opportunity to assess whether it is the right choice to change, it can be said, the nature of the mission. Against this background, the Radical Left feels that we have made a great deal of use of the various conditions here and that we can therefore support the motion for a resolution. The last question is, of course, whether Denmark should contribute to this military effort and, as you can hear, the answer for us is yes, even if it is difficult, even if there are no simple solutions, but because the alternative is worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122005	Thank you. We have some brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122009	Thank you. Yes, there are many questions to ask, including to Radicals, I must say. The three points alone, which are only partially met, are of course interesting to look at. However, according to the previous government and the current government party, Assad is the one who has unequivocally killed most people, at least according to the figures of the Ministry; those figures are not certain, but that is what we have. And it's Assad we're about to fight with. See, sir. Martin Lidegaard not a great deal of trouble in that we ally ourselves with some people whom we said just 3 years ago we would not touch with a fang; we would not even sit at the negotiating table with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122101	I do not think it is right to say that we must now fight with Assad. There are, of course, parallel military efforts for the first time, genuine negotiations on a solution to the conflict in Syria, and these are negotiations in which we, together with the European Union, are pursuing to get rid of Assad and that regime, but in a way that can, at the same time, stop the acts of war. After all, it is a parallel process which we believe must be taken at the diplomatic table. But there is no question of us standing shoulder to shoulder with Assad, at all, of fighting the militias that have sworn allegiance to Daesh and have occupied areas where they are also terrorism against the civilian population. I have no reason whatsoever to justify the actions of Assad in any way whatsoever; on the contrary, he is a very large part of the problem, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122156	Yeah, well, then I don't understand who we're gonna be working with. Yes, it may be the other militias that have been mentioned, who, after all, are fully in line with ISIL in their way of working. But another question: in this effort, international law is disputed by several. It is certainly very, very unclear, and most wise people refrain from commenting. There are a few professors who have said: it's okay, just go. The last time we discussed this, two years ago, the government argued that we should not enter Syria because it would be contrary to international law. ISIL was strong then too. What is the reason why international law is now being bent in a different way this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122240	On the question of who we are then fighting with, the obvious answer is indeed: yes, the 64 other members of the international coalition who are involved in this, the 64 other countries that, together with Denmark, are fighting Daesh in both Iraq and Syria. As far as international law is concerned, I must not hide the fact that the basis of international law on which we are based here is the self-defense of Iraq. Then it is clear that the further into Syria one gets, the more it will be debatable whether the international law holds. There are two things we want to stress. Of course, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and hence the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for ensuring that the legal assessment that is being made is sound and, moreover, in accordance with what other allies are doing. Secondly, this is also one of the reasons why we have asked to be consulted before a decision is taken to deploy special troops in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122334	Before we go any further, I would like to say that I am actually very patient with the speaking time, but it is running more and more. So you can see in front of you when your speaking time is coming to an end. So I ask you to respect it a little more. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122351	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. This is a very specific issue for the military action that we are discussing today. I know, sir. Martin Lidegaard and the Radicals have previously expressed scepticism and fears about the crimes against the civilian population committed by the Shia militias in Iraq. Similarly, it is now the case that Danish fighters and perhaps later special troops can enter Syria and that we have still not received a guarantee from the government that there will not be support for extremist groups, in other words in Syria. So I would just like to hear from the Radicals what kind of guarantees the Radicals think they have that it will not be very, very extreme groups that Denmark will be supporting in Iraq and Syria with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122448	There are very few guarantees, but on the question of the Shiite militias in Iraq, I have noticed that, according to my intelligence, this is, for example, the case. in Ramadi are actually Sunni Muslim militias who are currently defending that city after it has been taken back. And that is one sign that the picture is not quite as black as it has been. It is certainly not pink, as far as I can judge. I still believe that there are major problems with Shi'ite militias in Iraq, but it seems that an increasing number of Sunni Muslim militias have also started and that they are also doing theirs and playing a role. This is, of course, essential to the sustainability of, it is possible to say, the situation in the cities and areas that are being liberated from Daesh. But once again I must ask the other way: what is the real alternative? Because if we say that al-Abadi cannot deliver the total cohesion of his government, which he cannot do, and we are therefore just going away all together, then it all breaks down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122547	[Soundout]... but I've always been sceptical about giving military support to an Iraqi government that couldn't rule out the use of these Shia militias. And now we are also faced with the need to enter Syria. Well, it doesn't worry, sir. Martin Lidegaard and the Radicals that we cannot clearly put forward what groups we must support? And is there not a danger that we will support some very extreme Islamist groups inside Syria, which will eventually create chaos and instability for both the Syrian population, but also for the Middle East and, at worst, Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122627	That's the risk. After all, the coalition has carefully selected the militias that can invoke air support both in Iraq and across the border in Syria. That is why, of course, the starting point is that it is only the militias that are supported, and not those of a more extremist nature. But it is also true that on earth it is sometimes difficult in the heat of battle to distinguish. That is why we are once again in this debate and we are not going to finish it today. One might say that it is a difficult choice to say yes today. I think it is, but I just think it is an even harder choice to say no and to take responsibility for not contributing militarily to the fight against Daesh in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122708	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122711	Thank you. I could hear that, sir. Martin Lidegaard and the Radicals had thought about the treatment of any prisoners, and I am very happy to hear that. When I want to ask a few questions about this, it is because I was also able to hear that some of the other rapporteurs, among others. The rapporteur from the Danish People's Party has a somewhat frivolous interpretation of international law and the Geneva Convention. So says Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that it is crucial that this task force is set up, and that is also very good, but surely there must still be security before we send troops away, regardless of what happens, regardless of what a task force has to say about the fact that Danish troops do not hand over prisoners to the death penalty or torture. Will Mr. Martin Lidegaard and the Radicals are the guarantor that, before we send troops, we will have such a passage that we will of course not accept this kind of thing? Otherwise it will be a free round if we say that it is just up to a possible task force and that we have to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122818	But we have that passage in the sense, if I may say so, that the draft military manual now in consultation, which hopefully will be finally adopted before the summer, is a very detailed manual explaining that Denmark is joining the laws of war by complying with international law. And where it is really, really difficult in practice, because those with whom you work do not always comply, it is so that we need some specific measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122845	But does it mean [sound outfall]... Iraqi government, in terms of how to deal with such things? Because it is, of course, like a prerequisite before we leave that such agreements are in place, even though it can be difficult to deal with and all that. But if you are in a situation where you take some prisoners, you must say, if we are to stay in the thinking of the Danish People's Party, that either you have to do something to them or you have to shoot them? It must therefore be nice enough to have very clear guarantees of what we are doing with them in such a situation. It must be necessary to have agreements of this kind before we begin to adopt what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122919	The coalition has tried to get such agreements with the Iraqi Government and it has not yet succeeded, unfortunately, and therefore prisoners of war cannot be extradited to the Iraqi Government either. That is precisely the problem, and that is also why we are proposing the practice proposed here, namely that we should, as a starting point, avoid taking prisoners of war. If you still have to do so for security reasons, you have to make an independent assessment of what you are doing with them in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122946	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401122949	Thank you. It is a question of international law, because it is true that it has given rise to a certain amount of discussion. Sir. Martin Lidegaard thus gives a fairly good description of what the problem is here. To the extent that it can be argued that intervention in Syria can be justified on the basis of security in Iraq, where there is an international law basis, there may be an opportunity for it. However, the further away one then comes from Iraq, the more difficult it becomes to argue that it is acceptable to international law, and this is an issue which one has to deal with. How could Mr. Martin Lidegaard imagine that we here in the Folketing could address that issue? Because it is a question, after all, of when some aircraft are called out and have to drop some bombs, for example in Syria, whether they need to know in advance whether it is far enough away from Iraq for it to be in order under the law of law and what criteria should be laid down for it? You have to have a procedure and criteria that, like, determine how far away you have to be from Iraq in order for it to be defended.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123108	In practice, for every campaign carried out on the Danish side, that is to say for every bombing that is carried out, for every bomb that is thrown, a Danish officer sits and approves that it happens, a so-called red card holder, who also has the opportunity to say no if it is not believed that it is a mission and a purpose which is consistent with international law and a number of other criteria, including whether there is a risk of civilian loss, etc. So that balance is made on a case-by-case basis. Politically speaking, we do not have, and that is quite right from Mr Seligman's point of view. Holger K. Nielsen, opportunity to sit in here and follow every mission. Personally, I am of the opinion that the first phase described, namely mainly Iraq and individual bombings across the border with Syria, is a globally sensible one on the basis of the assessments made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you go further into Syria, I am more in doubt, I shall not hide that from you. That is also why I have asked for us to be in the situation where some might want it. It is not certain that we will be able to have a thorough political consultation with both the Folketing and the parties who choose to vote for it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123227	That's not fair. After all, it is not fair that the officer who sits and has to give green or red light should sit and find out whether we are now far enough inside Syria for this to be okay or whether we are too far in, so that it is not okay. There must be criteria in relation to what the limits are for where to bomb. I do not think it is possible to leave it to the individual officer who sits down there in Qatar or where he sits, to have to decide without political directives. So there must be some criteria that are put in by the government, by the Folketing, in relation to when it is international law and when it is not okay when you start a bombing campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123327	There will be, I strongly assume, military instructions setting guidelines for the individual officer who is in the situation. Of course there has to be, and I fully agree with that, and there will be, as there will be the overall way of doing it, that there should be self-defence of Iraq, that is, it cannot be anything other than that, if I may say so. But I must not hide the fact that there is no doubt that we are going through something difficult here, where it is a difficult assessment and where no clear answers are given. Conversely, it can be said that the border between Syria and Iraq today is not de facto existing. The war goes back and forth across the border, and therefore it is also difficult to say that here, completely imaginary, the Danish effort stops.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123414	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123416	I think it was a very precise review of the balances that have been made. I would like to know whether the rapporteur sees the UN as a real possible player who can take greater responsibility. Now Denmark is sending a contribution that we would like to see to be different. a UN mandate but does the rapporteur see with the past that the rapporteur has a chance in the near future to get the UN into the position of a stronger player, by pushing on the Danish side?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123446-2	I wish the UN could play a stronger role here. I myself have both in my time as Foreign Minister and subsequently supported the UN Special Envoy, Staffan de Mistura, all I could. However, I think we must also realise that if the United Nations does not help to bring about peace in Syria, the regional powers, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Russia and Qatar, cannot do much. That is why I think it is equally important to ask what we can do to put pressure on the regional powers. And there I think it is the European Union that can put pressure on it more than it is the United Nations. But the United Nations is absolutely essential, because once the will is there, the United Nations is the organization that has the legitimacy to negotiate this agreement and to defend it. But until now, the proxy wars of the regional superpowers and the unwillingness to enter the peace process have unfortunately not made possible the work of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123550	It is precisely when we approach these specific things, which are also being asked for when we want dialogue and debate, that I would also like to have the last part about the European Union, which is what we could contribute, for example. We also want a stronger European Union and that the European Union has a role so that they could actually go in and be an active player here. Is there any possibility that the rapporteur could elaborate on how the European Union might be more involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123614	I would like, and I have aired on several occasions, the idea that the EU's so-called Energy Union could also be used to rattle a little with the economic sabre to the regional major powers in terms of entering the peace process. This is a concrete example. But then I will end Mr. René Gade question say that for us all these tracks should be pursued, whether you vote for this proposal or not. It is not a question of the military effort on which we are considering a proposal today to replace the other efforts. Everything is needed and we see it as a complementary and coherent strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123649	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401123707	Of course, we fully agree with the comments that have been made today about the Islamic State or Daesh: that it is a terrorist, disgusting, cruel movement that we should have removed from the face of the earth. I also believe that there is agreement that this is a more complex matter than that which is at least a point we attach great importance to and therefore we do not believe that it can be done simply through military intervention. It is not the case that we are in principle opposed to military intervention, even in relation to the Islamic State. We actually supported the campaign in Iraq, which was decided upon here in the Danish Parliament in 2014, and we did so because we thought it made sense in Iraq, where there were some troops on land that could be supported. There were the Kurdish peshmega forces and the Iraqi government forces. The latter certainly had problems in themselves, but they were nevertheless such defined and well-defined forces that could be taken in and supported in terms of the removal of Islamic State. We already said at the time that in Syria things are absolutely fundamentally different, and we have always made a very strong distinction between Iraq and Syria in terms of how we should and could enter militarily. Firstly, there is international law. I thought so, sir. Martin Lidegaard described this very correctly. There are real problems in being able to deal with it in practice for the soldiers deployed. In fact, there is, and we have to take this seriously here in the Folketing before we send them off. Secondly, there is a completely chaotic battlefield in Syria, a muddy enemy image, a wasp's nest of various opposing interests and conflicts that go into and out of each other. Yes, the enemy is Islamic State, but what about the Assad regime, which has largely created the Islamic State, and which we initially turned to, and which the Danish foreign policy in the area was opposed to as the main problem down there? What about the Iranians, what about the Russians who have also come in and commit war crimes on a large scale? What about Turkey's role in relation to the Kurds? That means that there are a lot of different interests coming in. Saudis and Qatar also have interests in there, etc., and I just don't think we can understand that. I don't think that's wise. It is not wise to go into such a muddy enemy image as is the case here, and I am not sure that this is what can get rid of the Islamic State, even at the military level, perhaps, but what do you get instead? Yes, you get instead of strengthening the Assad regime, or whatever other movements you're going to strengthen. Just one example, which I also mentioned earlier: at the moment there is a discussion about the liberation of Raqqa, the capital of IS, if I may say so, where one can imagine some sort of race between the Russians, the Iranians and the regime on the one hand and the West, the United States, Denmark and the coalition on the other, about who is going in and free Raqqa. Who will gain control of the liberated territories afterwards? Are we gonna get in and take control of them? Should we occupy parts of Syria to prevent Assad from gaining control over the territories? Or should we accept that it is Assad who will gain control over the liberated areas? And are we sure that the Syrian people will be particularly comfortable about this? One of the reasons why the Islamic State has grown is the Assad regime. That is not the only reason why it also stems from the Iraq war and al-Qaeda and everything that happened in Iraq. There are old Saddam Hussein officers who are also in the leadership of the IS. But it was Assad who, like, nourished that IS grew, who gave IS the role of primary resistance to Assad. And that goes into the conflict in the area between Sunni Muslims and Shiamuslims, in the deputy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, which is also part of this. In other words, it is simply some violent, violently complicated contexts that we come into, far more complicated than it was in Afghanistan at the time, when we also found it difficult to find out who was a friend and who was an enemy. It was a disaster for the soldiers down there. They didn't know who the enemy was, and so am I. I do not think it is wise for us to go along with this, and I would like to say in conclusion that we must also look at this in the context of the defence situation. It is strange that it has not been mentioned very much today, but the defence is therefore very much under pressure at the moment. There is criticism from the defence side that there is not enough priority, and is it true that we are going into this? I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124242	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124259	I think we are all sick and tired of wars in the Middle East, and I myself must admit that I have significantly changed my attitude to military interventions because of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is two wars that have made it crystal clear what a decision it is to go militarily into another country, how far-reaching a decision it is and how long-term consequences it can have. Perhaps, before the Iraq War, we were living in a rather naive and idealistic notion that military intervention was an easy way to make a country change in a particular direction. And not many of us believe that anymore. We should avoid wars, and we should avoid initiating a change of regime. So when I hear today, for example, people who believe that you must actively oppose the regime in Saudi Arabia to push through a regime change, I think they must be insane. Fifteen years ago, I would probably have felt that we would not be able to accept a regime that they have in Saudi Arabia, which kills innocent people by beheading after dubious trials, but today I must say, lectured by the chaos that may be in a country with civil war and regime change, as we see it in Syria and Iraq, that I am willing to accept quite a lot instead of risking another country in chaos and risking the third world war. So Conservatives' reluctance to engage in conflicts in the Middle East is enormous. We fear the consequences, just as everyone else does. There are huge risks to military action. But in this situation, however, there is certainty that a terrible situation will continue if we do not act. I therefore think it is too easy to choose the comfortable way out, which is not to act because one is afraid of the risks involved in military action. The Islamic State is committing genocide. Tens of thousands of people have been murdered in cold blood. People are tied up, lined up in a row and executed, either with neck shots or by having their throat cut with a dull knife, while the blood - drunk executioners with great enthusiasm shout various religious cries. Women are being held as slaves, mass raped. People are being tried to be exterminated solely because of their ethnicity, or because they are following a direction of Islam other than the Islamic State. Homosexuals are thrown out of tall buildings because of their sexuality. Women are buried for life, after which there are grown men and bulls in their heads until women die. There is a world heritage that is destroyed because these barbarians want to wipe out any culture other than their own cult of death. IS is sending people to Europe to kill European civilians in terrorist attacks. We can't ignore it. It is our enemy; it is people who must be put down. They're criminals, they're murderers, they're rapists. Is the world gonna be good after we knock them down? We don't know anything about that, but we know that if we don't act against this evil, we're gonna let down a lot of people who are suffering from it. There are plenty of examples of failed military interventions, but there are also plenty of examples of inaction being harmful. And then you have to remember that we're already at war with IS. We have Danish soldiers in Iraq who fight this war every day through our training contributions. And Iraq can't be stable if we don't get the IS defeated. You can't just fight them in Iraq. If they can withdraw across the border with Syria, we will never have peace in Iraq. And we're gonna end this conflict. When you're at war, it's about ending it. Then it is not a question of dragging on for decades. And the way to end it is to win and defeat the enemy, and that is what we are trying to do here. Of course, military action must not be left alone. It is absolutely essential that at the same time there is also a wise diplomatic effort, otherwise we will not have a long-term solution. But we also think that we are doing everything we can to achieve that. And, of course, there must also be humanitarian action at the same time. And we think we are doing what we can for that too. One thing that I, as a Conservative, have been particularly concerned about and very concerned about in this situation is the conditions of the Danish soldiers. We have not talked about this much in today's debate. Conservatives, however, are very concerned that we are not pushing the defense anymore and that we are not pushing soldiers away that we do not have. And I can also be concerned today when I see the Central Association for Stam personnel coming forward in the paper and point out that now we are sending a lot of soldiers in terms of what we have the capacity to do. And this is a point that I would like to raise with the Minister for Defence, to which I hope he is very attentive, and on which I also think we should have a discussion, i.e. whether we can meet the objectives of whether we have the capacity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124807	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124814	I wonder whether there are elements of what we are voting in favour of for some parties and to which other parties are voting against, to which the rapporteur might well have thought different. I assume, of course, that there has been a close dialogue to get things right, so that everyone could be involved in what the rapporteur has to say about where there are some things, among other things. The defense you care about. Is there anything that has not come along, but that the Conservatives might well have thought had come along?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124841	No, it is the government's motion for a resolution, and we have indeed been in dialogue with the government and expressed our support for the decision to send soldiers, but we have not been involved in the practical arrangements for precisely what strength contributions should be sent. Because I feel that it must be the government that, in dialogue with the defence, is able to tell us what capacity we have and what soldiers we can send out while, of course, it must fit in with the needs of the coalition. So I haven't really been into that part much, but it's something I think we should talk about. I just want to make sure that we do not push the defense into a situation that will remind us of the one we had in the autumn, where we could barely make it hang together; there were mechanics who came forward and said they had to leave the defense because they couldn't stand to be there anymore. For then I think that in the long term we will do more damage to Danish defence, and then we will end up with no capabilities in the future. The individual is extremely challenged and we are very concerned that we ensure that there are proper working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401124949	Is it the rapporteur's view that the soldiers who have to leave and the defence in general believe that this is the right time and the right decision to make despite the pressure on the defence; despite the difficult plan in my view, which should lead to the end goal? Is it the rapporteur's view that the soldiers and the Danish defence think this is the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125024	It is incredibly difficult to get something like this out of the Danish soldiers, because they are always very, very loyal to the decisions taken by the Folketing. I have the impression that many of them are actually looking forward to going, looking forward to coming out and making a difference and fighting for the country. Actually, that's what I meet most when I talk to them. I could also read in the paper today that the union has some concerns, and I think we should take that seriously. But as a starting point, I think the soldiers are actually looking forward to going.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125053	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125057	Thank you. After all, this is not a debate on whether we should combat ISIL; it is a debate on what is working in relation to the fight against ISIL. And there I would just like to hear from the Conservative People's Party whether it is not worrying that we cannot get clear in this government resolution which groups Denmark should support in Syria. After all, we know that there are very extreme Islamist groups in Syria which, among other things, are: supported by Saudi Arabia because they want to introduce some of the brutal things that the rapporteur described happening in Saudi Arabia. So does it not worry the Conservative People's Party, and is there not a danger that the chaos and dilemmas created by the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as the rapporteur also mentioned, can be repeated in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125156	Yes, there is certainly a danger of that. As I said, there are major risks to this operation, and we can't be sure of anything. No guarantees are given when you do things like that. But the fact that you cannot act less than a hundred percent security does not mean that you should always stop acting and just stand by, because the cost of not doing anything can also be enormous. And in this case, acting will not mean that we will certainly see a continuation of the atrocities committed by IS and will continue to attack the West. I do not see how the government could guarantee which groups we are going to support down there, because this is not really a mission to support something, it is a mission to strike someone down: the Islamic State, which is our enemy, which commits mass murders, cultural destruction, rapes, etc., and which attacks the West. So it is an enemy that we go out to fight, and then through diplomacy we must ensure that there is a more stable situation in Syria, and that is not easy. It is actually very, very difficult, because there are not very many down there that we would like to support. But morally, I just can't see that we can sit around and stop acting against what's going on down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125307	I also believe that we should not act. In fact, I do not believe that anyone here from the parties in the Folketing today has said that action should not be taken. The question is how to act. And I do not think it is too much for Denmark to say: we designate those we want to give military support. It's by no means weird to do that. That's something we're dealing with, among other things. see other partners in the coalition against ISIL do. Turkey and Saudi Arabia say: we want to support some extreme Islamists that the Americans have said: we want to support this alliance of Syrian democratic forces with Kurds, Christians and Arabs. Why should Denmark not say who we are going to support, and is it not dangerous not to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125356	I don't see anyone down there we can support that way. I believe that we can support a democratic process, and that is what we are doing through the meetings in Vienna and so on, we can ensure that we have a collection down there in Syria and that the Syrians can sit down and talk and agree on what to do. We can support that. But I don't see how we can support a few factions down there. I haven't seen anyone down there that I have every confidence in. And that's why I wouldn't like it if we started spreading a lot of weapons to people we don't know what direction is moving in. That's where I'm more sure we'll keep the guns on our own hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125425	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125428	After all, the Conservative rapporteur was a little harsh on the people who are not going to vote for this, saying that they are defending stoning and rape and such things. Then he himself goes to the platform and says: I myself do so when it comes to Saudi Arabia, because I cannot overcome them. Isn't that a strange argument? The rapporteur's party has also argued that ministers should go to Saudi Arabia, and even the royal house should go to Saudi Arabia. After all, in Saudi Arabia it is perceived as a kind of support for the regime. Is it not a moral dilemma for the Conservative rapporteur that such a thing is a little selective and that we should do something about this rape, but we should not do anything about this? How on earth can this be linked to the rapporteur's head?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125524	We're gonna need some rest from over there. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125528	Calm down! Calm down! Calm down! Calm down! I think there are a lot of moral dilemmas in this, but I do not think there is anything strange in my argument. I think, funny enough, that my argument has been good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125546	Then I would like to continue where Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen stopped, namely by the question of who we are going to work with. Assad kills his own people I dare not yet call it genocide, but there are perhaps some authoritative forces who can at some point judge whether it is; it is at least serious, and it is he who has killed most of the people in this war that other people commit rape and stoning and dream about the same society as ISIL. These are some of the people we're gonna fight with. Less than three years ago, the rapporteur, or at least one from the rapporteur's party, stood in this Chamber and said that they would not even sit at a table negotiating peace with these forces. Now we're gonna be on the same side in part of this war. Isn't that very problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125634	Yeah, it's very problematic. There are incredibly big problems about this, and it is very incalculable what is going on in Syria. But I am going to repeat myself: there are plenty of risks, but there are also costs of not acting. And when you have an organisation that commits atrocities to the extent and of the nature of the Islamic State, it is an organisation that must be defeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125702	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125705	Thank you. The rapporteur says that ISIL is the enemy. So are they, but in reality the enemy is the anti-democratic, the oppressive, the semi-fascistoid forces. It's not just ISIL. It's also Shia militias, it's also Assad, and there's plenty of the kind of people we're going to stand with. So if we want to fight those forces, it is not enough to fight ISIL, then it is the forces we have to fight, but instead we are going to become allies to some extent with them. What I really want to ask is what I could understand the rapporteur's concern, namely the situation of soldiers, and I understand that. We are hearing from the reports of people who have been sent to, for example. Afghanistan and has come back, that when they come back after having been at war, have been sent out to kill other people and have risked being killed and seen comrades killed themselves, they come back with scars on their souls, and then they experience that the effort they have made means, for example, that there is no need for them to do so. in Afghanistan, people from the Taliban are in the areas in which Danish soldiers have previously been in. It is not, of course, to safeguard the interests of the Danish soldiers if we make exactly the same mistake again when we talk about Iraq or Syria, and if we are going to fight some forces where those who then come and take over power afterwards are some who are just as bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125826	I fully agree with that. We are aware that there are risks in this operation. We must, of course, learn from the mistakes we have made in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I think that has happened. We are not here to go in and take control of Syria. This was done in Iraq, where attempts were made to control the country and to dictate in detail how it should develop. But we are looking to ensure that the genocide is stopped and that a terrorist organisation is defeated. I think that the nature of these objectives is very different, and that is why I think we have learned a great deal; we have also hesitated for a very long time to intervene. If Syria's civil war had taken place before the Iraq War, we would have intervened 4-5 years ago. Now we have been waiting for a very long time and we have seen that the cost of not acting is also enormously large hundreds of thousands of dead people, millions of refugees, terrible things going on in that country. There are also limits to how long you can just sit and say: well, we fear it will go badly if we intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401125933	It is quite true that we have been passive for far too long in relation to what is going on down there, even in relation to a diplomatic solution. But I just have to come back to that, because the reality is that if Danish troops are helping to displace ISIL from some areas, it means that some others are coming in and taking over those areas, and there we must have some form of security for what groups are going to take over those areas. I think that the woman who gets buried to her chest and stoned doesn't care if it's ISIL who throws stones at her head or if it's Shiamuslim militias. As things stand now, we don't have that kind of security. Then we risk that very thing happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130014	There's no security. There will be no guarantee as to how the situation will develop. What you can say is that if you knock down the worst organization, they are at least gone, and I find it hard to imagine anything worse than the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130033	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur I have on this list is Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130051	Thank you. I agree that it is necessary to take action to combat and neutralize Daesh and the evil that has been built into their operation. It is both about helping Iraq and Syria to restore control over their countries and to combat terrorism, which Daesh is responsible for around the world. I would therefore like to express my respect for the fact that Denmark, together with the international coalition, will make an effort on Syrian grounds to defend Iraq against attacks by Daesh based on and respect for international law. However, I have some concerns about the involvement of the Faroe Islands in this new or intensified Danish war effort in Syria and Iraq. Firstly, the Faroe Islands have no military force and have therefore never waged any war. That is why it is difficult for me as a democrat and a convict to take responsibility for sending Denmark's daughters and sons to war. It is a decision that Denmark's elected representatives should take. Secondly, I think it is wrong for Denmark to declare war in the name of the Faroe Islands without the Faroe Islands having been asked whether we welcome it at all. In my optics, it must of course be the Faroese Parliament that must decide whether war should be waged in the name of the Faroe Islands. The Faroese Parliament has repeatedly decided since the 1940s until the 1980s to keep the Faroe Islands out of armed conflict, to abandon military bases and declare the Faroe Islands a nuclear-free zone. However, this attitude was softened in the context of the adoption of the foreign policy law in 2005. It regulates how the Faroe Islands can act in foreign policy contexts. In the Fámjin Declaration, Denmark and the Faroe Islands have inspired how Denmark should inform and genuinely involve the Faroe Islands in security and foreign policy decisions. This has not been done in this context, and at the request of Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale says the Foreign Minister that he interprets the content of the Fámjin Declaration unilaterally, of course, so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should only inform and involve the Faroe Islands when an issue has a particular meaning for the Faroe Islands, which differs from the general meaning that the case may have for the whole realm. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this case is of general importance to the whole realm, but not particularly important to the Faroe Islands. I am not sure that I fully agree with that, because with this interpretation Denmark can bypass the Fámjin Declaration and declare war also in the name of the Faroe Islands without having even informed or asked about the Faroe Islands' position on the matter. A few days ago, the government also decided that all public Danish flagpoles should raise the Faroese flag on 29 July. This means that on 29 July this year Denmark is waging war in the name of the Faroe Islands in Syria, and in Damascus the Syrians will see the Faroese flag weighing over the Danish embassy, which represents the warring nation. Frankly, I think that, in respect of Faroese self-determination, Denmark should of course have consulted the Faroe Islands appropriately before declaring war in the name of the Faroe Islands. It is just another confirmation that the foreign policy paper between the Faroe Islands and Denmark is a root shop that damages the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. I can say that I do not believe that the Faroe Islands are afraid to make an effort where necessary. I have no doubt that we will cooperate under NATO and the new Nordic defence policy agreement, and I also believe that we must fight terrorism. In ancient times, if I may say so during World War II, the Faroe Islands kept supply lines of fish open to Britain despite a fierce German offensive and with severe losses. Perhaps these were some of the greatest civilian losses in a Western country, relatively. But it was a civilian effort and not a military effort. We simply don't have a military. We only have fire souls fighting for the future of the Faroe Islands. Therefore, it is not reasonable for Denmark to start a war in the name of the Faroe Islands without the Faroe Islands being consulted. But if Denmark chooses to go to war in its own name alone, it is a matter for the Danes alone to decide. I would like us to revise the foreign policy law and have a clear agreement on foreign and security policy, so that there is no doubt that war can only be waged in the name of the Faroe Islands if the Faroese Parliament has agreed that it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130611	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130617	I think it is very positive that Mr. Magni Arge is taking the floor here in Parliament. I have wondered at other times, when we have discussed security policy issues, that members of parliament from the Faroe Islands have only complained afterwards. I think it is true that one uses one's place in the Folketing to take part in the debate and make the views that one has; since one has this constitutional seat in the Folketing, it must also be used. So thank you for that. I find it a little difficult to understand the criticism of Denmark here, because the Faroe Islands are in the Kingdom community on a voluntary basis. You have the opportunity to step out if you wish; we have said so many times on the Danish side. We would be incredibly sorry if it happened, and it would be a very, very great grief for us if it happened, but the Faroe Islands have the opportunity to do so, because we do not want to hold on to anyone who does not want to be there. But then it is also the case that defence policy is a matter which is decided in this Chamber. And then war is declared on behalf of the entire Kingdom community. That's the basic law. So I don't really see how things can be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130726	Thank you for your comment, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov. It is the case that a foreign policy agreement was reached in 2005 and with it also followed the Fámjin Declaration. And the Fámjin Declaration clearly states that the Faroe Islands must be involved and participate when foreign policy decisions are taken. And you haven't done that in this case, and it's really my sticking around in this context. In this context, I can also have the klandring that one has chosen unilaterally from Denmark to use the Faroese flag as a symbol of the Danish state at all Danish embassies on 29 July. This means that we have not been asked whether we think it is a right decision to make, including in the name of the Faroe Islands, to go into military action in Syria and then to let the Faroese flag fly at the Danish Embassy in Damascus. I think that is wrong because the Faroe Islands, with respect for the right of self-determination that we have, should be involved so that we can talk about these matters together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130831	If it is a question of the fact that there is no proper dialogue here before the resolution, I would say that, of course, we must be able to talk about it. I don't want any problem with that. I would also like to see more involvement of both Faroese and Greenlandic MPs in these decisions. For example, it should also be considered in the defence committee whether or not we should be involved. But in relation to the flag decision, I would say that I think it seems a little sought to try to make it a problem. In other words, it is really positive from the Danish side that we are raising the Faroese flag. It really isn't to bother the Faroe Islands. Otherwise, however, I do not know whether there has been a round of consultations where it could have been pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401130917	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. I am well aware that there are many good intentions and that there are always good intentions on the Danish side. But one of the reasons why I am sitting here in the Folketing is precisely to see it through the Faroese optics. The Faroese optics and the Danish optics are not always the same, as we have different interests and different origins. We saw it at the end of the mackerel conflict, where the Faroe Islands and the European Union were in conflict and where Denmark was actually our counterpart instead of being part of a common kingdom. That is exactly the same thing we see in many trade policy contexts and also in foreign policy contexts, which is about ensuring that we have access to, for example. Fisheries resources where Denmark and the Faroe Islands do not have the same interests at all. And there is the foreign policy agreement too tight, too difficult to operate in unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131010	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sorry, there came very late, at least very late, compared to when I discovered it • a request for a short comment. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131023	Thank you. I was now pressing in as my dear colleague from the Faroe Islands spoke. Now, in fact, I have looked up the Fámjin Declaration. I am probably not saying it at all correctly and it says: when such issues of particular interest to the Faroe Islands may require etc. Of particular interest to the Faroe Islands! That is exactly what is important to hold on to here. What we are discussing here today is something that is of interest to Denmark, i.e. whether Denmark wants to enter into a coalition in relation to being active in Iraq and Syria. I do not see how the declaration's provision on special interest in the Faroe Islands can be used in this particular case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131116	I can read another part of the declaration which says that for foreign and security policy issues of importance to the Faroe Islands it is natural that the Faroe Islands should be involved and have participation. It is a genuine involvement and participation aimed at equality on all issues where Denmark and the Faroe Islands are jointly involved. So it's a question of an interpretation of what you put emphasis on. I understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has put a different interpretation into it, but that is a unilateral interpretation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has not been through a negotiation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark on how to understand these things. What I am talking about in this context is that we have reached an agreement in 2005 which is not being complied with, by the way, an agreement that I do not very much welcome. In fact, I think we should go in and see how the foreign policy agreement works today and give it a better shape so that we avoid such a debate as we do, for example. Have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131214	It is, of course, the case that what it says is: security policy issues of importance to the Faroe Islands. And now the rapporteur himself has very clearly involved that the Faroe Islands do not have an independent military, so we can quickly discuss how and how it is. But is it not also true that although the government has the attitude they now have, much has been done to involve the representatives of the Faroe Islands, those who are here in the Folketing, among others. Those who sit in the Foreign Policy Name. Well, they've been involved when it was up there? Is it not also true that, at the same time, the Faroe Islands have been informed that as soon as it was up in the Foreign Policy Name, material has been sent up to the Faroe Islands, so they were informed on as good a basis as the members of the board were?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131257	Now I have to admit that I am not part of the Foreign Policy Name, so I was not informed through what was going on in the Foreign Policy Name. The information I have received has come from the meeting that was there, that is, when the proposal was put forward, and then from the discussion that has taken place here. I am also not active in the Laying, so I cannot say with a hundred percent certainty what they have been informed of and when they have been informed of it. I am only sitting here as an elected member of the Danish Parliament, and then I claim some things that I think are important, and that is precisely the fact that, when it comes to involving the Faroe Islands in a war effort of some kind, I believe that the Danish Government should talk to the Faroese Government about it, and if it is to be declared that one should be a warring nation, the Faroese Parliament should be consulted so that they can make a decision and say yes, as is the case in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131345	I say thank you to Magni Arge. And then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401131354	"Holy child has many names, there is an old saying that says. This also applies to the terrorist organisation that the government wants Denmark to make greater efforts to combat. Sir. Martin Lidegaard used the international term, Daesh, others have called them Islamic State, some call them IS. The fact is that they call themselves ISIL, and that is why it is also the name that the government has chosen to use for them. The brutality of ISIL around the world is shocking. The way in which they have slaughtered Christians, yazis, Kurds, people who opposed their religion, against their fanaticism, against their outlook on life has been brutally defeated in the territories they have occupied. That is why the fight against ISIL is also the government's top priority, and with the proposed package of measures that Denmark and the government are putting forward, we will move forward in the very front line of the fight against ISIL. It is an enemy that we must stand together to fight, it is a serious and concrete threat to both the people of Iraq and Syria, but also to our security, European, international, Danish. This applies directly, indirectly, in the short and long term. That is why a wide range of different aspects need to be taken into account, and I will come back to that later. But the threat to us here in the West is concrete, and we have seen this in the couple of attacks that have taken place in Paris, in Brussels, where ISIL has either been a direct executor, or they have been a source of inspiration to others who have carried out terrorist attacks. That is why we need to do more. Denmark must make a further contribution to the fight against ISIL for three reasons. Firstly, there is now momentum in the fight. This means that the international coalition has been successful in bringing ISIL back to large lands both in Iraq and in Syria. In fact, ISIL has lost 40%. of the land occupied by them at the time when they had their maximum size in Iraq. 40% of the territory is now back and freed from ISIL. Therefore, new operational interventions are needed, and Denmark must contribute to solving them. Secondly, our close allies, both the United States and France, have asked us to help further, and my attitude and that of the government is such that when our allies ask us in a fair fight to help, if we have the ability, we must also have the commitment and fulfil the obligation to contribute with the help we can. The third, and perhaps the most important, is that the price of not contributing can now be far too high, because the price of not contributing now is that the brutal terrorist movement we have seen in both the Middle East and in Europe can become even stronger, even more effective in reaching out and capturing large rural areas close to Europe and in chasing hundreds of thousands of people on the run. We must do what we can, do what is in our power, to put an end to ISIL. Let's just be honest, it won't be easy. As several speakers have said, this is a very complicated situation in Iraq and Syria, and we should not underestimate what kind of mikado game is going on in Iraq and Syria at the moment. But the fact that something is difficult, that something is complicated, is not an argument for not doing the right thing: fighting ISIL. There are no easy solutions, but that is not an excuse for not engaging. On the contrary, we must do what we can to help deliver what is right. I will say a few things about the debate. First of all, I was actually considering whether everyone has actually read the motion for a resolution. Well, at least I could at sir's. Christian Juhl's speech states that he has not read the motion for a resolution in depth. It is the case that what we are proposing is a long-term solution in which we agree on all five legs of the coalition strategy that we have lived up to from the start. The first leg is a military leg, and the second leg is a reconstruction leg, where Denmark helps to make a great effort to rebuild the land and areas of Iraq that we have pushed ISIL out of, so that the local population will have a safe society to return to, so that there is water, there is electricity that has been cleared of mines. It is a difficult task and a great task, but it is a task that we must be involved in. The third is that we must combat the possibility of recruiting the so-called foreign fighters, that is, young people from the West, from Denmark to come in and be soldiers in ISIL's army. Denmark has done much for this, and we are in fact expanding our experience and exchanging our experiences with other countries, because some of what Denmark has done through the so-called Aarhus model and Copenhagen model is in demand in the world. The fourth leg is to stop their funding. That's one of the things we do. do by going, as others have said, after their oil sales, by removing oil installations, by removing tankers, through military intervention, but it is also by strengthening the capacity to stop the financing of ISIL by means of investigative efforts. Denmark is also doing a lot there, and we are currently strengthening with the former head of PET, who is helping to build up capabilities in the countries around to stop funding. The fifth leg, perhaps not the most important leg, is to put an end to the propaganda victory that it has been for ISIL to appear as the true defenders of an Islamic religion, to document the atrocities they have committed and to give the Iraqis and the Syrian opposition the skills and tools to counter the propaganda that is there. The military trail we are talking about today is not the only one, but one of five tracks. And it is quite clearly described on pages 3 and 4 of the motion for a resolution. So when Mr. Christian Juhl has said in the past that there is not a single word about funding, either signs of a memory that is worse than I expect, or signs of an inability to read the whole motion for a resolution. It is the case that we have assessed a number of issues very carefully before we went into this, including issues relating to the readmission of prisoners. The fact is that none of the countries in the coalition has reached an agreement with Iraq that meets the standards of the Western world and of Denmark, guaranteeing that prisoners handed down to Iraq will not be subjected to violence. And we will not hand over prisoners unless there is a guarantee that they have a guarantee that they will not be subjected to abuse. But there are three things to say about the issue of prisoners. Firstly, the tasks the Danish soldiers must perform are of such a nature that it is unlikely that we will be in a situation where they will have to detain opponents. It is training tasks, it is guidance tasks, it is possible that our aircraft is targeted. May I just remind you, in relation to all the soldiers who have now been down and training so far on the mission so far, that we have not been in the position that Danish soldiers should be holding prisoners. If military action were to be developed, then there would be two options. One possibility is to take the prisoners to a place where they can no longer do harm and release them there. The second possibility is, as we have suggested, that a task force in Denmark can be called to make a decision, so that it is not the individual soldier on land in Iraq or Syria who is responsible for what is happening, but people from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here in Denmark. We have even described that, if this were to happen, a further contribution could be made to dealing with this situation. Another question that has taken up many is what we are doing to help the Kurds. If you listen to some of those who have taken part in the debate here, it sounds as if the Kurds will not touch at all, we will not help them at all. This is a completely insane presentation, and I apologise for the harsh language. In fact, the Kurds are the part of our alliance partners on land for which the coalition has done the most, and Denmark has done much. Denmark has helped train Kurdish peshmerga forces, and the coalition is now training the soldiers in two Kurdish battalions to strengthen them, because we know that they are some of the most effective soldiers on land. But the question is whether Denmark should only solve the tasks that we think are easy and pleasant, or whether we should solve the tasks that we have the skills and the opportunity to be involved in? And we mean the last. It is therefore that it is not the Danish forces at the moment, but others who have the task of helping and educating the Kurds. I shall say in the end, as I see that I am running out of speaking time and I actually hope I have a lot more questions, because I would like to say that yes, this is complicated, but when you get to the bottom line, to the end of the decision-making process, you have to ask yourself the question: is it that something is complicated, an excuse for not taking responsibility and doing what is necessary? Will it be possible without a military leg next to the four other legs to penetrate ISIL back and remove them from Iraq and Syria, so that the Iraqis and hopefully soon a free Syrian government elected by the Syrian people will be able to deal with their own situation? No, it will not be possible, which is why you have to take responsibility. I am delighted that so much of the Danish Parliament today is ready to take responsibility, but I regret that the SF and the Alternative will not be with us this time, and I am not at all surprised that Enhedslisten is again taking a security policy free ticket in this matter. However, I would like to thank the large, broad majority who support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132455	We have a number of brief comments to make, and we will start with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132503	Thank you to the Secretary of State. The important thing is also to know exactly what you are doing. In other words, if we are to do something that is right and if we are to act in the situation, we also need to know what we are doing. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister: what exactly are some groups Denmark is going to support inside Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132529	We must support groups whose background we examine. We must support groups with which we can train and train in what is called the laws of war, so that we know that those with whom we work are also those who will respect the rules that we lay down to apply when entering into something as bloody and as violent as a conflict with armed forces is. So we have to make a thorough investigation of who we are working with. However, we must remember that the Iraqi security structure is constructed in a different way from the Danish one. Part of the Iraqi Ministry of the Interior has some militias coordinated under the name of PMF and then I can't remember exactly what it stands for, which are militias working with the Ministry of the Interior. These are some of the groups that you could imagine we were working with. There are some of the Kurdish groups that we have Nikolaj Villumsen now changing its position and believe that we cannot work with Kurdish forces because they are not part of an Iraqi or an organised army.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132647	I actually asked about the situation in Syria, i.e. what kind of groups in Syria are going to give military support to Denmark. I think it is important that we know. One cannot read it out of the motion for a resolution, so I hope the Foreign Minister will tell us here, so that we in the Folketing know who we will be giving military support in Syria if there is a majority in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132713	We are going to work with groups that we have assessed, examined and approved on the basis of what criteria they are working on. And when we come to work with groups, it will also be groups that we will train in the basic rules that apply when you are going to participate in armed conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132735	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132738	It is not a question, so the Minister can then spend some of the time perhaps telling what he is missing from his speech. I would really like to just put a thick line under that when we want to solve a conflict as complicated as this one with complicated answers, I actually think it's okay. To go in and say yes to this requires a great deal of courage, I think, both on the part of the government and on the part of all the other parties who support it and say yes to increasing the contribution. Because it's a big decision. I just think it takes just as much courage, and I think there should be respect for that, that we say that we think it is another solution that needs to be found more complicatedly. This solution, which the government is proposing right now, is helping to curb ISIL, but unfortunately that is just not the way we will win peace in the long term. There one may then disagree or agree, but I think it is a pity that we are being shot in the shoes, that it is not responsible to choose the perhaps a little more complicated answer to the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132841	But unfortunately it is not responsible. And it is not, because although I fully agree with many of the ideas contained in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative and Enhedslisten to rebuild, to provide humanitarian aid, which we are doing, as we are doing, I have to say that the necessary reconstruction of Iraq can only take place if ISIL has been withdrawn. There is no possibility of building a strong society and it is not possible to support civil society organisations or anything else if ISIL has not been withdrawn. And so ISIL will not be without a military leg. But the military leg cannot stand alone. I would like to stress that it cannot do so. And the military leg has never stood alone. The military legs are being followed by reconstruction efforts, by efforts to stop foreign fighters, by efforts to stop their funding, by efforts to document how much they have actually carried out by atrocities, by killings, by rapes, by all sorts of terrible things in the areas where they have been. So I am very much in agreement with parts of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which I have had the opportunity to read. The only problem is it can't stand alone. It's naive to think it can stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401132958	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133002	I think it is such a pity that should be added at the end of the debate, because that is what creates this unfortunate perception among the people that there are some parties that are responsible and that there are others that are not. We disagree on how to achieve some goals. So far, so good. Finally, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether we can agree that entering Syria and Iraq militarily has a relationship with the increased threat of terrorism that we are experiencing here in our part of the world. Because if it does, I think it might be a question of a slightly longer and more responsible solution to try to look at what it really is that creates the symptoms we see that ISIL is actually an example of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133050	It is the case that entering Iraq and Syria now seems to me to be inextricably linked to the terrorist threat against Europe and the terrorist threat against Denmark. And we must also be honest and say that going in can help move Denmark even higher up on terrorists' target list than doing nothing. But that does not mean that we would just be gone if we did not be present. We must also look at the basis for what creates terrorism. I believe that some of the causes of terrorism are a lack of development opportunities. It is frustration over worthless governments in certain parts of the world. It is frustration that there are systems that do not allow the very large youth group that is in many parts of the Middle East to be given the freedom to create their own lives, their own working lives, their own educational life, etc. This is one of the things we do with everything else, with the Arab Initiative, with development aid, with the dialogue we have at the political level next door. So there's not just one clue in this, there's a lot of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133149	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133155	I understand from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks this is complicated. I fully agree with him on that. What I cannot understand, and it is not necessarily the Foreign Minister's fault, but it may be that he can help, is that he then says that it is because of ISIL, as he calls it. One might almost think that ISIL was called AOIV, that is, all evil in the world, because it is like assembled in that organization, and then we can fight it. But that evil is also found in other movements. The Foreign Minister then says that some groups have been assessed, examined and approved, which must then be supported, because when you push ISIL back, it will by its very nature mean that some others will have to take over. Who are the groups that have been assessed, examined and approved? Surely it must be a precondition that before it decides to send a contingent, the Folketing will know who we are going to support and who our allies are. It is not enough simply to say that some groups have been assessed, examined and approved. Surely we need to know who they are and what the conditions are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133302	If only it were so easy that ISIL was all evil in the world! There's a lot of other evil next door. There is al-Qaeda that, although they are repressed and do not have the strength of the past at all, still exists. There is the Al-Nusra Front, which is also present in Syria, and there are some of them on which it has been decided that, although there is a ceasefire in the Syrian part of the conflict, there is no ceasefire against the Al-Nusra Front nor against the ISIL. That is why there are many others that we must continue to fight, and not just ISIL. The fact is that we will do a process in which, before selecting who the Danish forces are to work with, train and train, we carry out the assessment of what their background is, so that we are also able to say that those with whom we work are some that we can train, train and explain how the rules that are when you are in a conflict work. It is, of course, part of our responsibility to ensure that when we come to choose them, we choose them on the basis of a thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133407	I just don't understand. The Foreign Minister says that we need to make a long-term process of creating new conditions in Syria and Iraq, but how can we send some troops and say that they must be allies with some groupings that we do not just know who is, but we hope that we can find them, train them and something like that? If we are to send troops to intrude ISIL, then we must know who we want to replace and know what the alternative is. Surely we cannot just send soldiers on happiness and piousness and then say: we know who they should not be allyed with, but we do not know who exactly they should be allyed with. There we have to have a clear answer. So does the Folketing before the adoption of this. Who do we want to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133448	That is quite simply what our objective is. Our objective is to put Iraq in a situation where they are able to resolve their own security situation. And the Iraqi army is working with a large number of militias. We must ensure that we work with those who can respect and understand the international rules in this area. In relation to Syria, our objective is to remove Assad, which is one of the worst dictators in the world at the moment, and we must create a situation so that the Syrian people can choose their own leadership, so that it is they, that is, the new Syrian elected leadership, who can take over the regime of their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133527	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133532	I can tell the Minister that I have read both the chapter, which is called IV and V, and if that is what he has to offer, then my criticism continues. There's nothing new in those paragraphs. I just want to say that. The second is that it is unbelievable to listen to a minister who always says yes when the big countries leap forward and say they need more support. It is the easiest thing in this world to do as a minister. The hardest thing, of course, is to analyze the situation yourself, to give answers to who it is you are allyed with, to consider the situation carefully before sending your people out to war. It's hard, and that's why it's hard to say no, really hard. But it may be difficult to understand for a minister who is always used to saying yes when the Americans call him. There is a very, very important issue that we also need to discuss. That's the risk of civilian casualties. When dealing with bombers, we have always agreed that there is a certain risk even with very modern weapons. Can the Minister guarantee that Danish soldiers will not kill civilian people in connection with this new action?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133642	That's how I'm gonna have to say to mr. Christian Juhl, and the listeners who have listened will know this, and those who do not, can read it again, that earlier in the debate I addressed to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen said that there was not a single word about combating funding in it. If sir... Christian Juhl has really read Chapters IV and V, he has read that there are several sections about how we among others. helps to slow down the financing of ISIL along the way. So it is simply a flagrant retreat, but it may not be the first time that Enhedslisten is in a retreat. When, for once, Enhedslisten took responsibility for the war in Libya, he took the flight as fast as he could to return to the ease of irresponsibility, and that is what we see again. Enhedslisten won't have the weight of responsibility on him. Enhedslisten will only say no. I can promise that there are more requests for Danish contributions than we put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber. There are a number of cases in which we have to say no to being able to deliver what others would like us to do. I cannot give a guarantee here today that there will be no civilian casualties. War is a difficult business, so no guarantee is given, but I can give you another guarantee. I can give a guarantee that the Danish soldiers, the Danish Ministry of Defence, the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do everything we can to prevent civilian casualties. We will do everything we can to ensure that the soldiers we are involved in training and training are trained in what they need to do to minimise the risk of civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133821	I am becoming increasingly aware of why we should not have that Commission study that it had to be interrupted in the middle of it all. We currently have a government that will not learn from old wars that will not learn from the mistakes made in Iraq, Afghanistan and a number of other places. That is why it is being done that, blindfolded without a proper strategy, bombers are once again being sent off and believe that it will solve the problem in Syria. I can't believe this. Nothing has been done to stop the purchase of oil. Yeah, now you want to bomb oil wells. Well, they've sold thousands of tons of oil in the last few years, and they've become stone-rich by it. Nothing has been done to stop the sale of weapons to ISIL. They're shoveling in the weapons they need. Nothing has been done to enable the young men to get another job instead of being lured by ISIL's wages to soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133918	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401133920	I wonder if it is because of a lack of knowledge or because of a lack of will to understand that Mr. Christian Juhl continues with his claims. Firstly, much has been done for a long time to combat the sale of oil out of Iraq, out of the ISIL-occupied areas. This has been done by removing tankers, it has been done by bombing oil installations for a long time. It is not something new that is being started; it is something that must continue. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, the Enhedslisten has shown several times today that the Taliban should be at its highest level. May I not just remind you that 15 years ago, the Taliban held the whole of today a democratically elected government. Fifteen years ago, one million Afghan children went to school and none of them were girls. Today, nine million Afghan children go to school, a large proportion of whom are girls. From then until now, life expectancy has improved, infant mortality has fallen, more Afghans have access to water, have access to healthcare. It's better, but it's not going well enough in Afghanistan. Afghanistan has the challenge that the Afghan Government has taken over security control and it needs our help in the future. We can see that there are setbacks, and that is also why, like a number of other countries, we have chosen to continue our commitment to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401134034	We thank the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401134110	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401134129	Thank you very much. The Minister cannot be spared in this context. Welcome. I have to say that for the Socialists, it is with pleasure that we see that we have reached this bill on e-cigarettes and evaporation. The road has been very long. This bill is based on a directive that has been adopted in the European Union, and since then we have discussed and negotiated a great deal in Denmark. Now the bill is here, and it's really, really good. Who are the winners in this bill? It is the many consumers who steam, who smoke e-cigarettes. How many people do that? The statement from 2014 says it's about 5 per cent. of the people who do it. About 2%. do it daily or almost daily. What is the fact here is that the market is absolutely unregulated at the moment. I mean unregulated in every way here. This means that conditions are very poor for those who steam, that is to say consumers. Their safety is simply not in order. Some have said that this area looks like the Wild West, and I think that is actually very comprehensive. This is now being corrected, and this is being done on the basis of the many elements contained in the EU directive, which must ensure that we have a reasonable level across the European Union. The framework is concerned, among other things, with: Oh, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, It is a framework for requirements and quality and patient safety. There will be frameworks which will make demands on the equipment, i.e. the electronic equipment and the containers that are there. Rules will be put in place to allow retail trade to sell products which have previously been referred to pharmacies. These are the fluids that contain nicotine. There will be rules on how marketing should be, what control and what rules will be for it, and that it will now be here in Denmark that the Danish Security Authority will carry out that task. Those who produce, those who distribute or import these products to Denmark, must ensure that there are notifications of any suspected safety-damaging effects of their products. It is all again to ensure product safety for consumers. More importantly, there is also a framework for steaming e-cigarettes. Here we have as health politicians, as a parliament, as Parliament, some very special responsibilities to be taken care of for the sake of children and young people. That is why we are very pleased by the Social Democrats that there will be an age limit of 18 for the sale of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. This applies both with and without nicotine. There will also be rules on where steam can be steamed or not steamed. Children and adolescents should not be steamed. This applies to day care institutions, schools, boarding schools, post-schools, high schools. Nor should it be steamed where children can otherwise be, which means that public transport and taxis are included, both with and without nicotine, that no steam is allowed. Rules have also been laid down for the protection and consideration of the rest of society and therefore in other places, such as jobs or educational institutions, a policy must be drawn up and published as to whether or not steam should be steamed. In the marketing sector, advertising of e-cigarettes is prohibited. This also applies both with and without nicotine. It will be the same strict set of rules that applies to tobacco. But what do we know about e-cigarettes? We know something. We know something about the damage. On the other hand, we do not know much about many other things. That's why there's a lot of assumptions in this area. I really wish we had much more scientific evidence both for and against evaporation and the long-term effects. I'm very impatiently waiting for us to get more documentation. So from a socialist point of view, this is 20 steps in the right direction. We could have gone further, but we stick to what is the directive and have created a Danish set of rules. However, I also have a certain understanding of the many consultation parties who think that we could have gone further. They have given many constructive consultation responses in this area. From the Socialist side, we will monitor developments very closely to the evaluation we will have of legislation in two years' time. Here, of course, we will follow how consumers, how retail trade, how producers behave in what is the framework. If there is new knowledge, we will have to take stock of it, perhaps even before the evaluation, if it really comes up with some groundbreaking new knowledge, but otherwise we will do it in the course of the evaluation in two years' time. As I said, this is a very, very unregulated area with both illegal production and sales at the moment, and it is therefore very welcome that a country such as Denmark, which would like to get things right, which would like to help ensure that consumers who want to help promote health are allowed to do so. It is with pleasure that I can say that the Socialists support the bill. I have to say in the same vein that the SF does too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401134719	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen of the Social Democrats. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401134736	It always makes it a little easier to be second in a proposal that we agree on, because then you do not have to list all the good things that are in the proposal. The fact is that vapours have become a new way of enjoying nicotine, and this can be done with liquids in which there is nicotine and liquids that are not nicotine in. Here it is an EU directive that is precisely addressing the tobacco product directive to say how we should then make it legal to steam with nicotine in liquids. This is probably one of the proposals in which we have received incredibly many e-mails. I think all the health rapporteurs have received over 1,000 e-mails, many of which were completely misunderstood, I would say. Because they started by saying that now we would ban steaming. There we had to say that it has so far been forbidden in Denmark to sell electronic liquids with nicotine, but that we are now doing so that it will be legal to buy them and that we know that it is registered, we know that it is not something that has been made in a sink and that we can be sure that what we as consumers are buying is also safe enough because it has undergone some regulation. In the Danish People's Party, it has been important that we take account of this group, which has had to steam and has not known what the rules were. There may be some of the rules that we think have been tightened up a little, after all, that is always the case when the EU comes with a directive. It is not always that we vote for these directives when the European Union comes into play, but exactly with this, we also think we have helped to give it an angle so that we also ensure that there is some reasoning in it. For example: We are very pleased that it should not just follow smoking legislation, as some wanted, with the fact that steam should be banned everywhere. As Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen mentioned there are places where it is prohibited under this legislation. I would just add that when we talk about where children are staying, there is an exception, and that is where children are forced to stay and may not be able to leave. There the management can allow you to steam. Some of the things that we have also emphasised are that you, as a local company or workplace, make a policy on how to steam. We would like it to be smoking legislation that was also the way to decide whether or not to smoke as a company. We agree with the proposal, and we hope that all those who have written to us will nevertheless be satisfied because we are now getting regulation in this area, so that we can be sure, when you buy a steamer, that it is not one of those who either explodes in the hand or in the mouth of one, as we have seen; that the liquid you buy does not corrode if you are going to spill it on the skin so that you can steam in peace and quiet without the great problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135050	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135057	What does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party think about the fight against cancer recommending that e-cigarettes should comply with the smoking law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135108	I thought I was very clear in my speech. I am against that. In fact, I believe that the Smoking Act should follow our law on e-cigarettes instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135119	But what does the rapporteur think of the concrete fact that when the fight against cancer is against it is due to, and now I quote the fight against cancer: 'With people who have been exposed to steam/smoke from e-smoking, nicotine could be measured in blood, saliva or urine?' What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135139	I believe that when you have a company or you have a place where you want to make your own policy in this area, it is they who decide, and we are adults and can decide for ourselves whether we go in or out. Therefore, this proposal only ensures that where children are staying is prohibited, but elsewhere you make your own rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135159	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. And the next is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135207	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are dealing first with the proposal for a law on electronic cigarettes. By 20 May 2016, Denmark is to implement the EU Tobacco Directive, which also includes electronic cigarettes and refill containers containing nicotine as consumer products. The draft law also contains an age limit for the sale of electronic cigarettes, and in future there will be rules on where to steam and where not to steam. There are currently no legal e-cigarettes or refill containers containing nicotine on the Danish market. And with the increasing number of steamers, challenges have followed. From the outside you can sometimes get the impression that the market in which electronic cigarettes and liquids are part of has almost as the Social Democrats' rapporteur referred to the nature of wild west, where steamers, for example. buys illegal liquids, which it does not actually know what contains or in what amounts. And this is of course very important for the risk that each steamer exposes itself and the surroundings to nicotine, which is an extremely dangerous substance, among other things. skin contact, but also in relation to e.g. formaldehyde, which the Danish Medicines Agency has found in some of the fluids that are steamed and which are, moreover, highly carcinogenic. The EU directive allows e-cigarettes to continue to be regulated through the more restrictive pharmaceutical law or as medical devices. For us in the Left, it is vital that we find a solution which, on the one hand, strengthens consumer safety and, on the other hand, is not so restrictive as to encourage an even larger illegal market. That is why we support the future regulation of e-cigarettes and nicotine-containing containers through the Tobacco Directive, which is much less restrictive than both the pharmaceutical law and the medical device law. For the Left, the security of the individual is of great importance, and the bill introduces several measures to strengthen safety. For example: both liquids and vapours must in future have maximum levels for nicotine content, refill containers must be child- and tamper-proof, and refill containers will in future have a maximum size. Overall, it makes very good sense that we are now taking initiatives that can strengthen safety and give e-vaporators certainty that the product they buy meets or comply with certain standards. This means that manufacturers and importers of electronic cigarettes and refill containers of nicotine will in future have to submit a notification to the country in which their products are placed on the market and that manufacturers, distributors and importers will be required to establish a system for collecting information on the harmful effects of their products on health. Such an arrangement is the responsibility of the Security Authority and is financed by fees through the industry itself. We have a very special obligation to look after our children and our young people, and therefore it makes good sense that the bill here protects our children and young people from exposure to steam, which we really do not know can be harmful to health. A ban on steaming in institutions and schools where children are staying is similar to what we know from the existing smoking law applicable to ordinary cigarettes. This bill also introduces a ban on the sale of e-cigarettes to young people under the age of 18, as we know from the tobacco ban law. A written policy on the use of e-cigarettes will need to be developed in future in relation to jobs and educational establishments which do not provide youth education and to places where the public has access. It will therefore be up to the individual workplace to decide whether or not to allow e-vapor. A major part of the prevention is that warnings are put on the packages stating that nicotine is an extremely harmful addictive substance, and a ban on advertising such as that we know about traditional cigarettes is proposed. In the Left, we believe that with an advertising ban we will be able to shield our children and young people from exposure, and that is essential because children and young people are particularly vulnerable and are particularly susceptible and susceptible. Last but not least, I have noted that with regard to Chapter 2 of the Act, i.e. the regulation of the use of e-cigarettes, the provisions will be evaluated by 20 May 2018 at the latest. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135635	Thank you. There is a brief comment to Mrs Jane Heitmann, and that is from Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135647	What does the rapporteur of the Left think about all the organisations that know something about this • Medical Association, Cancer Control, Heart Association • recommends that e-cigarettes should be regulated according to the Smoking Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135702	I think it is really important that we take care to learn more about the effects and harmful effects that e-cigarettes may have. The Danish Health Service has pointed out that it is not really known how harmful an e-cigarette can be. That is why I think it is important that we spend the next few years collecting knowledge and getting a little more insight into what the risks are of e-cigarettes. The starting point for me is very important, and that is that we protect children and young people and pregnant women.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135739	Does this mean that as soon as there is more knowledge of how harmful e-cigarettes are, the Left will be open to the fact that e-cigarettes are covered by the Smoking Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135751	We in the Left are always open to discussing it if there is new knowledge and what new knowledge might give rise to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135803	Then we thank Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401135813	Thank you for the floor. I have to start by saying that it is so with some awe that such a hillbilly ass like me from Hjørring gets to step up on this platform. But I would then like to welcome the fact that today is 1 April, so if I were to say something that is a terrible nonsense, then I can then withdraw it and say that it was a April fool. Having said that, I would like to say that I also think it is a bit harsh that, in my first speech here, I should actually support a proposal that is not only put forward by the government but also the implementation of an EU directive. This is not exactly the idea I have had of coming over here in the Folketing, but that is nevertheless the case. Enhedslisten supports this proposal. We welcome the fact that this draft law provides for a regulation of an area which has been very much marked by both illegal and at least grey areas. In future, legalisation and regulation of the sale of e-cigarettes will be ensured with all that is involved in safety and quality requirements. Despite the importance of continuing to work towards improving public health through a reduction in nicotine consumption, regulation must be preferable to the current grey areas in the area of e-cigaret. We in the Enhedslist are very positive about the fact that the bill imposes a general ban on using all forms of e-cigarettes, both with and without nicotine, in places where children and young people are travelling and staying, in order to protect them from the harmful fumes of e-cigarettes. We would also very much like to pay tribute to the part of the bill which deals with the ban on advertising, which means that, in future, e-cigaret products, whether they contain nicotine or not, must not be advertised publicly. Furthermore, we are also pleased with the series of minor regulations which support the fact that e-cigarettes really constitute a harmful nicotine product. I am thinking in particular of tightening up the sale and marketing of nicotine products so that they are not presented in a way that makes them attractive to children and young people, and the fact that they must be provided with clear warning labels, as well as the introduction of an age control requirement with the same penalties as when selling tobacco. We can only support this attempt to further regulate the tobacco and nicotine industries and the shops that sell e-cigarettes. I can add that, of course, the draft law still leaves room for further improvements in this area, and I am thinking in particular of nicotine-free e-cigaret products, which are largely exempt from regulation with this proposal. After all, harmful and carcinogenic substances have already been found in e-cigarettes, even without nicotine. So we are also willing to look at some further improvements to the bill. In conclusion, however, we welcome the fact that the proposal envisages a much needed clean-up in this area, and with the many good ideas contained in the proposal, we can agree with it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140126	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund and congratulations on the virginity. Hopefully this won't be the last speech. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140139	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance really wanted to support the bill to legalise e-cigarettes with nicotine. There could be many good things about that that we have already heard today. However, the bill is unfortunately subject to so much regulation and registration and so many fees, most of which are registrations and regulations intended solely to protect us from ourselves. And even if some of it is EU-determined, it will not be less bureaucratic, and we are therefore still opposed to it. E-cigarettes have already helped incredibly many people to stop smoking and they could help even more. Many have gone from smoke to steam, and some have moved on from there to a complete quit of smoking. And although we do not know for sure how much risk there is of steaming, everything suggests that it is significantly less unhealthy to steam than to smoke tobacco. An English study shows that it is 95%. less unhealthy. The ban on advertising reduces information and awareness of opportunities, and the huge fees will mean that only large outlets will be able to afford to distribute e-cigarettes in the future. All manufacturers, importers and distributors shall establish a system for collecting information. All products must be notified and registration fees payable. However, the bill does not describe how to define a product, and whether mouthpieces and batteries are also e-cigaret products is first laid down in a notice. The definition is quite crucial for the total fee. In England it has been decided that only products that may contain nicotine-containing e-liquid are to be registered and the fee is 2200 DKK. for registration and 600 DKK. annual for maintenance. In Denmark the corresponding fees are DKK 36.900. per product for registration and DKK 14.700. annual for maintenance. And so it can at the moment. be for all units, which according to dealers can easily run into over 1,000 units. This could be an incredibly heavy expense. The detailed regulation concerning the sizes of bottles of max. 10 ml and tank max. 2 ml also appears to be unnecessary regulation. And all packages must have huge health warnings on them. It should not be possible or legal for authorities to regulate and legislate in matters which only affect ourselves. We, as politicians, should not take on the private responsibility of each individual citizen. Every healthy citizen has the right to decide his own body and make his own decisions. The draft law could have brought about good liberalisation, but that is far from the case, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140458	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140506	Thank you. Now a number of things were listed which were opposed in this draft law, but I would first like to hear whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur can confirm that the size of the containers is not something we have decided on the Danish side. It is therefore the European Union. Then we can agree that the European Union should not interfere in this, but it does not change the fact that this is not something we have negotiated here in the Danish Parliament. Secondly, I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks it should be allowed for young people under 18 years of age to be able to buy e-cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140541	As far as size is concerned, I am aware that it is dictated by the European Union, but it does not make it less bureaucratic, and that is why we are still away from it. We can say that then you must sit in the European Union if you want to influence those things, but I still believe that as members of a national parliament we should make known what we are dissatisfied with about what comes from the European Union. Otherwise, it may be a little difficult for those in the European Union to do a lot about it. With regard to children under the age of 18, I would like to say that, as a starting point, the Liberal Alliance believes that this is not something that the state should interfere with. It's not the state that's gonna raise kids. It is not the state that is responsible for the children of parents. It is the parents who are responsible for their own children. But if it had been the only regulation that had been, we would have said it was fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140635	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is not optional for Denmark whether we want to implement an EU directive. This is something we are obliged to do, and it can have consequences for Denmark if we do not do so. Then we can take the debate on it with age limits on another good occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140649	I still believe that national parliaments have a duty to signal to the European Union if you are against the rules and bureaucracy that come from there or other rules and laws and regulations that need to be implemented nationally. I think we have a duty to say that we do not think that is right and that we cannot vouch for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140713	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401140722	Thank you. I almost want to start by replicating a little on what was said by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The rapporteur believes that such things as smoking only affect ourselves. It doesn't. The problem is, of course, that the negative health effects caused by smoking are not just an individual problem, but are largely a social problem. So when we negotiate and talk about such things as spending in our health care and how we prioritise them, it is also about the fact that many of the costs we have in our health care come from smoking. So we must never forget that perspective, I think. In the alternative, we welcome this bill, which will regulate the e-cigarette market for the first time in Denmark. It has been a bit of a wild west market and we think it is right, very fine and positive that the government, on the basis of an EU directive, also takes the necessary legislative considerations into account in relation to the Danish context. So we are in the alternative of the proposal. After all, we have had a number of debates in this area, and there we have also indicated that we support the draft law. In the course of the negotiations, there were some points which I made and which we would have liked to have seen slightly different and which I would therefore like to make here from the platform. It is primarily about the alternative having liked us to have followed the smoking law in relation to the e-cigarettes, especially as regards where to steam down. There we would have liked to have seen the rules laid down in the Smoking Act being followed and that it had been done in the same way for the two areas. It can be said that the current draft law obviously takes account of children and young people, it does not protect them as such from what you can call passive smoking in, for example. shopping centres, cinemas, cafes, etc. It is also the WHO's recommendation that you have one's legislation. So there was no support for this in the discussions, and we respect that, but we may have to take it in the next round. I can hear that there are others, including the Enhedslisten, who are also interested in perhaps a little tighter legislation. We have also seen in the hearings that there were several who called for it. Maybe we'll take it another time. But that is certainly important to us. Basically, in the alternative, we wanted us to be completely smoke-free in Denmark. This is a radical objective, but we have recently been to New Zealand with the Health Committee, where they have the ambition of becoming 100% smoke-free. That then corresponds to what is 95 per cent, because one recognizes, of course, that there will always be a few who smoke. But they say 100 percent smoke-free in 2025. Today we actually saw a news that the TrygFonden and the Cancer Combat have joined together on a goal that Denmark should be smoke-free by 2030, which the Minister has supported. I think that's really, really good. We also support it 100%. But in spite of these attention points that I feel are important to address from here, we are voting in favour. We do so primarily for two reasons. One is that we also have to recognise that there are actually a number of people using e-cigarettes as a way to stop smoking. Of course, it is important that we make room for this. And the other reason is that the knowledge we have so far points to the fact that e-cigarettes are less harmful to health than traditional cigarettes. So in the alternative, we take what can be called a harmless reduction perspective here and a slightly pragmatic approach. But I would like to stress, as several have said, that knowledge in this area is still quite limited. We don't know the long-term effects. We have an evaluation in two years' time, and we are all very interested in it, but I would also like to say that if anything should come up in the meantime, before the two years have passed, we will certainly be the first to take it up if it is something that shows a great health risk to the e-cigarettes. So it's important. But we're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141119	We thank Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141130	Thank you. We all know someone who's got cancer. It's a scary disease. And all of us in all parties here in the Folketing are concerned about what we can do against cancer. Yet it is as if some people are closing their eyes when it comes to one of the most important fights against cancer, namely prevention. On the back of my door is a poster, which I have received from the Cancer Combat. It shows a small black cross for each person who died within 1 year in traffic. It was 185 people. And it shows a small red cross for each of the people who died of tobacco in 1 year. It was 13,900 people. The black crosses only fill a tiny corner. It does not make every road murder less tragic, but it is tobacco that is the great killer. And cigarettes cost us so horribly many lives every year. If cigarettes were invented today, we would probably never allow them. Most experts agree on this. Yet we are a little hesitant now that a new kind of cigarettes is being invented. E-cigarettes probably cause damage to cells so they develop cancer. E-cigarettes can cause asthma and COPD, and e-cigarettes can lure children and young people to smoke. The Research Centre for Prevention and Health has just completed a report to the WHO on evidence of the health effects of e-cigarettes, and they find toxic substances and degradation products of carcinogenic substances in the urine in e-cigarette vapours; toxic substances are found in the breath of e-cigarette vapours. Experimental studies in humans show increased respiratory resistance in the lungs; respiratory inflammation; asthma and COPD development in animal studies; decreased defences in the lungs against bacteria and viruses in animal experiments; high levels of nanoparticles in the vapour from e-cigarettes; many different toxic substances found in e-liquid and vapour; several potentially carcinogenic substances found in e-liquid and vapour. And unfortunately, the list is much longer. It is creepy, and that is why I am listening to the leading organisations that say that we should equate e-cigarettes with ordinary cigarettes. It is the Danish Cancer Society that says it, it is the Medical Association, it is the Heart Association, it is the Danish Society for Public Health. I therefore hope that we can secure a majority on an amendment that equates e-cigarettes with ordinary cigarettes. I know that this requires some parties to think twice, but we are in a situation where the hearings are so that I hope we can still find each other in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141503	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141511	I would just like to understand what the rapporteur said at the end. Will you table an amendment to what we, in other words all parties, have been sitting and negotiating and on which we agree? If you table an amendment to that proposal, I would say that the negotiations are wasted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141528	Yes, we would like to do so and we would like to discuss it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141542	Then I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that it may be that there will be a different decision in the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141548	The rapporteur? Then we thank Mrs Lotte Rod for her rapporteur's speech. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401141601	I think it is good to see that there are people in the gallery today. In fact, I have to admit that I might have expected that all the seats would have been filled, given the amount of inquiries we have received in this area. It can be counted in meters what we've been asked. So thank you for showing up, though I might have expected there would have been even more today. For us Conservatives, it's been about finding a balance in this bill. Granted, this has not been an easy matter. It was about finding a balance between two things. First of all, there is personal freedom. We do not believe in the Conservative People's Party that we should have a state power that dictates the good life for all Danes. If you want to drink whiskey every night and smoke lots of cigarettes, there should be no state power to prevent you from doing so, if for yourself it is the definition of good life. Then we can sit some politicians here in the Folketing and get gray hair because we can see that it is straining our health system, but we must nevertheless bear in mind that people are responsible for defining for themselves what is the good life for them. Secondly, in this case there is another consideration to be taken, namely that of the Community. Just as I don't really care what you put your own body to, because it's your own decision, I'm just as strict about what you can afford to expose others to, because those are the bodies of others, and so it must also be their free choice. So we are just as insistent about freedom, so we are equally insistent about the Community's interests. I think we have found a sensible balance in the legislative proposal we are debating today. I believe that, from the debate in this Chamber today, it will be possible to hear that compromises have had to be found. Some have been interested in going much, much further than we have done, and then we have been some others who may have moved it a little in a different direction. It has been important for us Conservatives that we did not give ourselves to define what private companies should do in this area. Private companies must be allowed to adopt their own smoking policy completely, and that is what this bill gives them. No obligations are imposed on them; no obligations are imposed on them except that they have to decide what the rules are with them. We don't think that's too much to ask for. What also makes this debate difficult is that we lack knowledge. We do not have a scientific consensus on what the consequences really are. Reference can be made to one study from England; reference can be made to the WHO's position; and reference is made to the studies, according to what is convenient for one. There is a lack of common scientific practice in this area, and that makes it difficult for us politicians to make a choice. But I feel that we must have a precautionary principle. We took many years to regulate smoking at home. I think there are many who would have liked it to have been done earlier. It could have prevented a lot of deaths. I am not interested in us being hesitant for too many years when it comes to e-cigarettes. Then, when we evaluate this legislation, if there is a new knowledge base, we should adjust the legislation by then. It is true that many of the answers to the hearings indicate that the smoking law should be fully followed. We are not interested in this, and I can also say now that we will not support the amendment that was previously mentioned from the platform. That is because in our optics there must actually be advantages in smoking e-cigarettes rather than smoking ordinary cigarettes. For although research is not yet complete in the house there is much to suggest that e-cigarettes are not as harmful as ordinary cigarettes. Of course, we all want people to stop smoking completely, but if we cannot achieve it, I think it is better that they switch to e-cigarettes. Then I would like to say to this about the size of the containers, which is one of the things we have received most of the inquiries about from you sitting up there, that it is therefore EU material. This is not something that we in the Folketing have had the opportunity to change. I can follow the e-mails that have come that, compared to these sizes, this can lead to some trouble in everyday life, and I basically do not think that this is something that the European Union should regulate at all, but it is now the case that it is not optional for Denmark whether we want to implement an EU directive. So it is merely an invitation to vote in the next European elections and to exercise its influence there, because it is the politicians in Brussels who take such decisions. The last thing I want to say before my time runs out is that it is so much needed with the security agency that is now going to control this market. We must ensure that there are no extremely carcinogenic substances in the products being steamed. There have been doubts as to whether the price of registering these new products is too high. This is not something on which the state has to make money, and I have the Minister's word that it will, of course, be regulated so that, if more products are added than has been envisaged, the unit price will be lower. With these various comments, I would like to say that we Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142132	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. There are no brief comments, so the trip has come to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142147	Thank you. I would like to express my thanks for both the comments and the debate here today and, above all, for all the good discussions that we have had between the parties, which actually started, long before this government so far joined, namely under the previous government, where we started discussions across all parties on the implementation of the directive. It has required many meetings, it has required many good discussions, which is why I am also pleased that so many people can support the bill. I am pleased that you will be involved in ensuring the quality, composition and safety of electronic cigarettes and refill containers containing nicotine, while at the same time helping to introduce national rules on the use of electronic cigarettes in places where children and young people are staying, in collective means of transport and in taxis. The draft law makes it possible to sell electronic cigarettes and refill containers of nicotine, which meet the requirements of the directive, outside pharmacy in the rules of pharmaceutical legislation. At the same time, we make a number of demands on the products, among others. in terms of quality and safety. I think we have found a sensible and balanced approach to regulation in relation to electronic cigarettes. With the regulation, we take into account both the need to ensure that products are safe and, at the same time, to introduce less restrictive access to the market and manufacture of electronic cigarettes and refill containers for consumers in Denmark. So thank you once again for a good debate and a good discussion. I shall, of course, make myself available if any further questions arise here during the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142349	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142405	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142433	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes to amend the basic rule of the Authorization Act on what tasks are reserved for doctors for professional reasons and for the sake of patients. One of the tasks is the dot test, among others. blood sugar dot test. Drink tests must therefore be carried out today by a doctor or by a doctor's helper, on the appropriate instructions from the doctor and under the responsibility of the doctor. This applies both to the performance of the test itself, to the guidance given on the test, including the analysis of the test result, and to the treatment follow-up on the test. Proposers will exempt dot testing from the medically restricted area of activity in order to spread the possibility of more rapid detection of diabetes. The proposers see it as a barrier that you have to go to a doctor to be tested. I fully agree that it is important to focus on the rapid detection of diabetes and to remove unnecessary barriers. The government has a strong focus on this too. To give everyone the opportunity to perform dot tests I do not see immediately as the way forward. The Board of Patient Safety warns that this will have implications for patient safety, and the consultation responses to the bill also point out very strongly that the necessary medical qualifications are important in blood glucose testing • also the Diabetes Association's hearing response. I think that is important to note. The risk of penetration of the skin by a blood sugar dot test is considered by the Patient Safety Board to be well comparable to that of needle acupuncture. And needle acupuncture is already excluded from the field of medical activity. There is, however, a difference: blood sugar control is performed as part of a medical assessment or treatment that should be done at a medical level. It is an assessment of the circumstances surrounding the dot test and the derived effects of the dot test, which the Patient Safety Agency does not consider it safe to leave to anyone. It can, for example, be done. be to assess whether a test result with elevated blood sugar may be due to other than diabetes, and e.g. whether a diabetic should adjust his medicine or not as a result of the test result, or e. g. whether there is a need for hospitalisation. In principle, I do not want a health service where between the individual professional groups there are airtight shutters simply for bureaucratic reasons or because this is usually the case. I want a health service organised in such a way that it makes the best sense for those who are ultimately involved, namely patients, and where patients can be confident that patient safety is addressed at all levels of our healthcare system. Precisely because diabetes is a serious and treatment-intensive disease, legislation that ensures patients' advice and treatment at the appropriate level of health care is important. The Board of Patient Safety considers that the right level of health care is found here in a doctor. I have taken note of that, and I give that recommendation. So even though the government can support the idea behind the bill, the government cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142814	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Flemming Møller Mortensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401142826	Thank you very much. From a social democratic point of view, health policy is about creating better conditions and conditions for patients. It is a question of constantly focusing on improving patient safety wherever health care meets the patient and the citizen. In fact, we do not think that is the case with this bill on dot testing and the extension of the circle of people who have to do a dot test on the skin of citizens/patients. The Minister for Health has said so, but I would very much like to repeat it: who is saying that this is not a good idea? It is the Board for Patient Safety, and it is for example the two patient organisations whose members make the most use of the dot test, namely the Diabetes Association and Asthma-Allergi Denmark. However, there are other important parties who have expressed this in the hearings. Everyone believes that it must and must remain an area reserved for doctors, where the doctor can easily delegate the task to other health professionals with an authorisation or others that the doctor believes have the necessary professional understanding and qualification to be able to tackle that dialogue, i.e. not only the practical execution of a dot test, but also the guidance and advice of the patient and the citizen. It is therefore very much associated with diabetes when one speaks of dot testing, i.e. the fact that diabetics must be able to follow the level of their blood sugar over the day and the week. I have to say from the platform that I am surprised that the Danish People's Party is putting forward this proposal in the Danish Parliament. I am surprised that it is being put forward as a legislative proposal and not as a motion for a resolution, but I also wonder, on the basis of the consultation answers, in which the main patient organisations whose members are subject to the dot test I have mentioned the Diabetes Association and Asthma-Allergi Denmark • announce that they do not support the proposal. Where did the tank come from? I very much hope that DF's health rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, will explain it. It may be that I am turning myself up a little bit, but health policy must therefore bring benefits to patients. I also feel that a lot of resources are being spent on dealing with a bill in this way, not of us here in the Folketing, but of many, many others who have to deal with it. And here too I think that, in view of what has been announced in the hearings, we need to reflect a little on whether we want to maintain our legislative proposal or our motion for a resolution. As I have said, the Socialists believe that we must always focus on improving conditions for patients and that we must improve quality, regardless of whether it is a question of diagnosing the patient, so as to ensure that the patient is quickly and in a qualified way able to find out what is wrong and then to ensure that the patient is treated with his or her disease. And then we must keep an eye on the safety of patients, and it is therefore the supreme authority we have here in Denmark, the Agency for Patient Safety, who says that this bill makes no sense to patients. On the contrary, there may be a risk involved in this, which will increase the risk of harming the well-being of patients. Hopefully, this makes it clear to everyone that the Socialists do not support the bill, and I have promised to say that neither does the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401143222	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401143245	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are the first-reader of the bill amending the law on the authorisation of health professionals and health professionals, which is a bill tabled by the Danish People's Party, which wants to allow non-authorized persons to perform a dot test. Like the Diabetes Association in their hearing answer, I would like to commend the Danish People's Party for putting early detection of diabetic patients on the agenda, and in the Left we have great sympathy for the intention of the bill, namely to ensure early detection of diabetic patients. But I would also like to make a statement, as was the case among other things. The Diabetes Association, the Midwives Association, the Medical Association and the Danish Nursing Council, that we in the Left cannot support the bill as presented. However, I can also understand from the DF's rapporteur, with whom I discussed the proposal yesterday, that the draft law, as it has been presented, is not entirely satisfied with itself and will therefore table amendments during the committee procedure. More than 300,000 Danes live with diabetes, and almost as many, about 230,000, are supposed to live with undiscovered diabetes, and diabetes costs society approx. 86 million kr. Every day. In other words, it is a disease that fills a great deal in a Danish context, just as diabetes is a disease that has a great impact on the everyday life of the individual and the life one wants to live. There is no doubt that the earlier you discover type 2 diabetes, the longer and the better you live. Therefore, there is good reason to take action and ensure early detection of patients with diabetes, and from this should sound a clear call: If you have symptoms, go to the doctor. As recently as last month, the Danish Health Authority has presented new recommendations on how to strengthen early detection of diabetes on several fronts, and the recommendations go hand in hand. • to ensure that doctors and municipalities are actively involved in identifying patients at risk, e.g.: by means of a questionnaire, and it is vital that in future the organisation of the Danish health service gives greater priority to problem-free and smooth cooperation between municipalities, regions and practitioners. Sophie Løhde, Minister for Health and the Elderly, has already launched a work which is intended to identify how we can strengthen the close health care system, and for us in the Left, patient safety is an essential focus. Whatever direction we are moving in in the Danish healthcare system, patient safety must and must be weighed heavily. Although it sounds legendary easy to diagnose diabetes simply by a simple dot in the skin, it is a truth with modifications, for it is not like e.g. needle acupuncture, which is already excluded from the field of medical activity. No, with a dot test follows interpretation and interpretation of the dot test for further examination and diagnosis. Failure at that stage may have an impact on whether a patient is seeking further help and guidance from a doctor, and this may ultimately determine whether or not a patient is receiving qualified help. No one can be served by living with that uncertainty. Diabetes is a serious and a treatment-intensive disease, and it is therefore of great importance that skilled personnel carry out the test, and it is essential that we maintain that a licence follows special obligations, among others. to inform patients before, during and after a study. Unauthorized persons do not have the same obligations, and this makes a marked difference in particular in relation to the patient's safety at treatment. I would like to make it clear from the Left that we are concerned about opening up the door tests, as well as the accompanying guidance and follow-up, to professional groups other than authorised doctors, but I hope that the working group I know is going to enter into dialogue with pharmacies, such as the United Kingdom. is already in dialogue with doctors on the delegation of the dot test task, and is inspired by the experience gained through this. The Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401143653	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401143703	Thank you. I would also like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that, in this way, we agree with many of the considerations that have been shared from up here. Nor can we support the proposal that dot tests should be carried out by unauthorized health professionals. It is not, in fact, because we cannot understand the intention of the Danish People's Party's proposal, because the intention is to be able to detect diabetes in the past, among other things. at home tests and stuff. We therefore fully understand that we would like to be able to diagnose in the past. The only problem is that a dot test is not an uncomplicated procedure. There is, in fact, a reason why it is now an intervention by health professionals, because it is a medical intervention. We have a concern to open up the possibility for other professional groups to start carrying out the dot test, and we are not willing to take that risk. Perhaps it's a little misleading just to talk about dot testing, because a dot test is a lot of things. As the consultation answers also show, this is something that can be used in the case of diabetes, and it is also something that is being used for allergy tests and all sorts of other things. There we are concerned about the possibility of leaving responsibility to people without the authorization of a doctor. In addition, there is also the fact that a dot test only provides an immediate answer. There is the whole question of the clarification of what might be the right treatment; there is the diagnosis; and there is the whole prevention part. This applies not only to the test, but also to the advice that health professionals will be able to provide in connection with the test. As several people have pointed out in the hearings, I can also be worried that opening up home tests will lead to a risk of both over- and during diagnosis, because the individual citizen does not have the professional background for interpreting the answer to the test. There, we believe, there is a need for health professionals to be brought in because otherwise it may have adverse consequences for citizens, and this may also lead to an increase in the pressure on practitioners. I do not think that the comparison with the exception for acupuncturers is real to use in this context, because this is precisely the diagnosis of what can be both serious and chronic disease. Today, only doctors or assistants to whom the doctor delegates responsibility under framework coordination can perform a dot test. If you implement this bill, you will be able to give unauthorized health professionals the right to carry out an operation which is not even authorised by nurses today. If it was the case that we had to consider something, then it should be what the Danish Nursing Council is also suggesting, namely that the nurse might be able to carry out the test without a framework prescription. That is not something we want to lay down now, but that was an opportunity to discuss. As I said, we believe that the draft law as it stands now seems a little premature and ill-thought-out. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144033	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144041	Thank you. Today only doctors or persons designated by a doctor may carry out the so-called dot tests on other persons. This proposal will expand this circle of people. This makes sense, as a dot test must be considered not to have a hazard requiring that it can only be carried out under medical responsibility. With regard to the danger of misinterpreting the measurement result, I do not consider the draft law to pose a greater risk. Everyone today can buy a device for measuring blood sugar. The pack contains ten needles and costs somewhere between 75 and 100 DKK. So, in principle, everyone can already do a dot test themselves today. We welcome any debureaucratisation that is responsible. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144137	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144148	Thank you. As several have said, this bill is a very sympathetic draft law... we fully agree with that in the Alternative... because it is actually trying to meet a need for early detection of diabetes by giving people other than doctors and doctors' assistants the opportunity to perform dot tests. Nevertheless, the alternative does not support the draft law as it currently stands, because we think it might pass, and at least there are some fairly similar consultation answers that we have leaned very much on in our assessment of the draft law. There are not so many who support the draft law in the hearings, which we think there are some alarm bells ringing not exactly, but something we should listen to there. But when I say that, it is also because it is actually a rather difficult legislative proposal to deal with because it is so sympathetic in its form, but at the same time it is so that we have this rather similar response from the organisations. I would like to hear that because I am actually curious about that, and it may be that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party talks about it when she walks on the platform. So, who really wants the dot test to be carried out by unauthorized health professionals? I would really like to know that, because when you read the hearing answers, it is certainly the Pharmacy Association and another player, whom I cannot remember right now on a stand-by basis the name of who thinks it is a good idea, whereas all the others do not recommend it. So it's kind of a curiosity from here. However, as I said, we actually think it is a sympathetic proposal and we clearly recognise that there can be something in it and we want to help look at how we can make this easier. Nor do I believe that the dot test itself is a particularly severe procedure. There may be some reasoning that it must be ensured that the right health professional competence is present in the follow-up guidance and advice. In line with Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we agree that the Danish Nursing Council's proposal that nurses should be allowed to carry out a dot test without having to have, one might say, authority given to it by a doctor could be a possible way forward. However, this is something I would very much like to discuss further during the further negotiations. So, as it is in its present form, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144419	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144428	Thank you. We in the Radical Left cannot support this proposal. I agree with what the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur and other rapporteurs have also said: what is the concern in this is not the dot test itself, that is to say, sticking, but that is the follow-up itself. The management of patient safety is concerned, on the one hand, that you are going to overlook some people who have diabetes and, on the other hand, that diabetes doctors will get too many inquiries from those who do not have diabetes. With us in the Radical Left, we stress that people should not become unduly worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144518	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144527	I will be very brief. I think the proposal is sympathetic. I think it is in every way possible, namely that several people must have the diagnosis in the past which can have major consequences for their health and for their lives at all. In this way, it is extremely sympathetic. On the other hand, of course, it makes an impression when there are so many organisations that warn against it and point out that it may have consequences such as those just mentioned by Mrs Lotte Rod, namely that it can cause unnecessary concerns and perhaps send more people to the doctor than is good. It is, of course, also important to take this into account. It is not because we are concerned that the procedure itself, if you can call it that, is dangerous. I think it's more dangerous to ride the bike paths of Copenhagen than to get a dot test done. But, of course, we are thinking of the health assessment that follows from the test. So as it is here, we cannot support the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144625	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Sorry, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, there is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144638	Mrs Mette Abildgaard says that there may be concern that too many people are being sent to the doctor. I just want to know how it can be if anyone who suspects diabetes today is going to see a doctor because that's the law today. Then how can it mean that more people come to the doctor?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144659	This can happen in very concrete terms. For example, in the case of: a diabetes association or others stood on the Hjallerup Market and did the dot on everyone who came by, there would be many who were in a group of doubts where one could not give a clear yes, one could not give a clear no, and that concern would then cause more simply to go to the doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144719	This then presupposes that all sorts of people who have never thought about having diabetes go and have a dot test and therefore suddenly go to the doctor. Is that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144735	I have no doubt that if you were carrying out these tests on the street and on markets and everything else, there are plenty of people who would go and be tested, who might otherwise not have been worried about anything in the past. But we Danes are also such that if you go in and read on health.dk and read a lot of symptoms, we suddenly feel that we are failing everything. I'm afraid the same effect would occur if you could do these tests anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144758	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401144807	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you for the various contributions that have been made, because we have tabled this bill and I will try to answer some of the questions that have been asked. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen asked why I put forward this proposal and why I spend time on it. Well, for crying out loud, I'm elected a politician to take care of health. If I think there's something worth spending time on, I'm gonna do it just like when mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen calls a minister in consultation or other things, asking questions or whatever it may be. Of course you do what you think is necessary. I have been contacted by a local diabetes association that wonders that in today's Denmark one can allow makeup tattoos inside the eyes, on the lips, one can allow piercing over the whole body, scarification, which is to cut the skin and burn the skin, etching the skin where there are tattoos. At the same time, however, this association has refused to carry out blood sugar testing in the local library along with health measures. It would actually just help find some of the many thousands that go around with undiscovered diabetes. A blood sugar measurement is not, as one rapporteur said, uncomplicated. It was the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who said so. Yes. A blood sugar count is a small dot in your finger, and you can't possibly get hurt. It can even be difficult sometimes to get the blood out. Now I have both worked as a home helper when we could be allowed to perform blood sugar testing before a law came in the area and as an assistant. It's actually hard just to get blood out of some people, so you have to take it in the ear or anywhere else. However, according to our health legislation, making a small dot in your finger is an operation, and this can only be done by the doctor or, as the Minister also said, by the doctor's assistant. The Minister also mentioned that the doctor with expert guidance should instruct health professionals. Then they could do it. I wonder if the doctor in all municipalities goes out to home helpers, health assistants and nurses and expertly advises them on how to measure blood sugar. I don't believe that. You just give carte blanche, and isn't that completely useless? Many rapporteurs think it is important to get the right advice and that it can be dangerous if you do not advise correctly. After all, it is not the great science that needs to be done, and I am sure that everyone with diabetes in the diabetes association clearly knows when and how to measure blood sugar, as well as what information is to be given. That's exactly how you measure blood pressure, which can also give an atypical result. And you can do that even if you have a blood pressure of 120 over 280. Oh, yeah, it's a little loud. Maybe you should go see a doctor. These are the same challenges as if blood sugar levels are too high or too low. Then you're supposed to be able to say to the citizen: maybe you need to get past the doctor. We are in rapid development in the field of health, and a lot of things can gradually be self-tested. A rapporteur also warned against this. Self-testing happens all the time. I think it would be reassuring if you are up to the pharmacy anyway to get medicine or at the local health fair that you could get the blood sugar measured. Actually, you can do that too. All you have to do is make this delegation, this signature from the doctor, because then you can. But it probably costs money for the doctor too. It is doctors who are already so busy that they complain that they get too many tasks. The Danish People's Party will just try to help and say that we can then free the doctor from some of those things, and we might also get some finance, instead of having to have money every time they delegate it, sign that there is an assistant or nurse who can do it. Mrs May-Britt Kattrup also said that today you can buy a blood sugar test with ten strips. I was in yesterday to look at how much it costs: 50 kroner. How reassuring is it that without advice you go home, test the whole family and have to decide for yourself whether it is too high or too low, and whether you have eaten or have not eaten? Then another solution that could provide information would have been much better. In fact, you can, because as the Danish Pharmacy Association and Pharmadanmark, and what they are all called, writes, you can now go to a pharmacy. You know you poke your finger, and then you can get tested. But no one else has to poke. That's silly. Six months ago, I had a retest done. Spit in a glass and send it off, and then suddenly you have your entire resume and knowledge of what you may have of genetic risk of getting diseases. So every day more and more tests are coming on the market, so I do not understand the concern about this proposal at all. I simply think it is old-fashioned that you cannot support and do not see that you can get more diabetics who go around without knowing that they have diabetes and who will therefore have a series of late follow-ups. I have listened to the hearings because I do not see it as negative as many of the rapporteurs. For most people, it is said that you want it to be authorized health professionals who should do this blood sugar test. So there will be an amendment to the second reading, so that instead of being unauthorized persons, it will be reserved for authorised, as well as for chemists and pharmacists, because it is they who can continue without having it delegated. I hope there are some who are willing to support it. We have approx. 200,000 Danes walking around with diabetes without knowing it. Early detection and targeted action is so important, as there will be more than 650,000 Danes with diabetes within 10 years. So this proposal is just to get some of them, because so much would be saved, also for themselves, especially when we know that many of those who get diabetes belong exactly to the group that does not go to a doctor. I can only regret that many of the parties, although not the Liberal Alliance, do not want to change the law. But I will work on it in the future, because if we can do things like this, it will make blood sugar measurement much easier, and then you will also be able to find some of those who are walking around with undiscovered diabetes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145525	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of Mrs Liselott Blixt. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145535	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for your answer, however. It comes from a local diabetes association which has addressed the rapporteur. Would the rapporteur not confirm to me that the Diabetes Association says that this is not a good idea; the Diabetes Association, in other words the national one, which one must say is the top umbrella for all diabetes associations in Denmark; the association which has professional experts employed? They have said in a hearing answer that they think it's a bad idea to have to hand out this dot test option to God and every man.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145625	That is also why I have listened to the hearings, as is done in legislative proposals, so that amendments can be made. The Diabetes Association has said that it wants to maintain a form of authorisation for health professionals in blood sugar testing. That is why there is an amendment, because many have asked for it to be authorised health professionals. And these are nurses who have also asked for that framework agreement to be amended. So they want it too. Each organisation wants it funny enough for their territory, but many times you don't want to give it to others. It's always a little weird. But the Diabetes Association actually says they want to work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145705	Thank you to the rapporteur for just a little bit of understanding that we can be some in this Chamber today who think that it is not to show respect for us that, before going to the first reading, the rapporteur has the impression that what she is asking all the rapporteurs in this Parliament to do and what she is asking all the parties to do is not what the rapporteur thinks is right. It's a question. Then I would like to make a comment. The Danish People's Party will help, yes, I can promise that the Social Democrats will help every diabetic and prediabetic person in Denmark. However, we have the humility to say that we may not know best, but ask those who know better. I really think that the Danish People's Party has illustrated something with this bill. You don't even draw the bill and show us other respect, so you come with what you think you want the rest of us to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145800	Well then, I would have liked to be able to table the amendment to the first reading. There was just a minister who dragged something on to see if we could reach an agreement before I made the proposal. But it was pulled for a little too long, so it couldn't come. I took into account the consultation responses, just as a minister does in areas when there is a hearing response. The rapporteur himself does the same when there is a hearing response that shows something else. That's why you get a hearing answer. That is why I am changing it. As far as I am concerned, I think that many people could carry out a blood sugar test, but when there is a response that you want it to be authorised health professionals, then I am willing to amend the proposal in order to adapt it to those consultation responses. It's natural. And no, I'm not wasting time. But it is a waste of time that you will not listen to what these organisations actually want to do to change it say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145856	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160401145914	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 April 2016, at 1 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
