ParlaMint-DK_20161208101237	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208101243	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208101254	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208101310	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208101342	Before the debate is opened, I would ask for silence in the Chamber. The debate is open. It is the Foreign Minister and there must be silence in the Chamber so that we can hear what is being said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208101425	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the government to state to the European Union that negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union should be stopped. In their comments on the proposal, the proposers state that the continuation of the accession negotiations will implicitly mean a stamping out of the Turkish Government's practice after the attempted coup. They believe that it will send a signal to third countries that the domestic and foreign policy strategy pursued by Turkey since July is within the framework of the principles of the European Union. Furthermore, the proposers state that the government must demand that Turkey comply with the Copenhagen criteria prior to further negotiations on Turkey's accession. Finally, the proposers believe that Turkey's cooperation with the European Union, including the work to draw Turkey back on a democratic path, will have to take place within the EU's neighbourhood policy in the future. It is not a new discussion that we are facing today. The situation in Turkey was last discussed in the Folketing a few weeks ago in connection with the urgent request for arrests in Turkey. Earlier this year there was a discussion on a draft parliamentary resolution requiring the government to hold a referendum on whether Turkey should join the European Union when there was one day an agreement between Turkey and the European Union. In January 2015, the Danish People's Party tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to work towards the cessation of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. I do not want to go into all the key and strategic issues that have not changed since the last discussions. I would just like to start by saying that the government continues to believe that the EU enlargement process is the best framework for maintaining close relations with Turkey and that Turkey is constantly being called upon, through the accession process, to fulfil its obligations as an EU candidate country, including in the area of democracy and human rights. There is no doubt that there have been a number of recent moves by the Turkish Government which are of great concern to us both in Denmark and in many other European countries. In fact, only yesterday I had the opportunity to discuss this with Turkey's Foreign Minister. I don't want these things to be seen in isolation either. They are on top of a development that was already worrying. So some of it is related to the state of emergency in Turkey after the failed coup attempt in July. Other is of older date. This is a development that we are following closely. It has been complained of, for example. to the Turkish Ambassador, who was summoned for an interview with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 7 November. As you know, calling an ambassador for an interview is a very strong bilateral tool to use from the diplomatic toolbox. The European Union, of course, is also keeping a close eye on developments in Turkey. Each year, the Commission publishes an enlargement package containing comprehensive reports on the countries eligible for membership. The 2016 reports were published on 9 November. The European Union makes very high demands on candidate countries in relation to the rule of law, human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of the media and an independent judicial system. Therefore, these aspects are also a very central part of the report's content. We actively support this from the Danish side. The Commission's country report on Turkey presents a very critical picture of developments in that country. Last year the Commission pointed out serious backward steps and, after the attempted coup of 15 July, further progress has been made in the wrong direction. Deteriorations in freedom of expression, among others. As illustrated by the many imprisonments of journalists and the closure of independent government-critical media, there is a great deal of concern. The same is true of mass layoffs and arrests of civil servants, the arrest and prosecution of elected parliamentarians and mayors, major problems with the independence of the judicial system, a very harsh course towards the Kurdish minority, particularly in south-eastern Turkey, and the recent re-examination of the re-establishment of the death penalty. The government has a great understanding of Turkey's challenges with terrorism by both militant Kurdish, i.e. The PKK, and of Islamic nature, i.e. ISIL. Turkey has the right to fight, just as Turkey has the right to take a thorough stand after the failure of the July coup d'état. However, the authorities have an obligation to show proportionality in their reactions, and as long as Turkey is a candidate country and a member of the Council of Europe, it must meet higher international obligations and standards. Re-establishing the death penalty would run counter to these high standards. It is therefore important that Turkey should be kept up to its international obligations. The government believes that this is best done by Turkey through several simultaneous channels, for example. Council of Europe and the OSCE, etc. This has also been discussed in this Chamber in the past. But the strongest among them and the one who, in proportion, demands the highest standards of Turkey is the EU accession process. If the EU now suspends accession negotiations, if the whole process is stopped, it may be a tough, clear and rapid response to the negative developments, but at the same time it will deprive the EU of a decisive channel to influence Turkey in the desired direction of reform in the longer term. At the same time, the EU's decision to suspend or freeze accession negotiations could potentially be exploited by forces in Turkey to illustrate that EU countries have never really wanted Turkey to join the EU anyway. There are forces that really want the path of enlargement and the related reforms in the European direction to stop, but it is worth remembering that there are also many democratic and opposition forces in Turkey who, in the very current situation, want to continue the EU accession process, because Turkey is thereby being kept up to some basic standards of democracy and human rights. A key element in the enlargement process is the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria, which were established during the Danish Presidency in 1993 and to which the proposers refer. The criteria lay down high requirements regarding democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities, as well as requirements for well-functioning market economies and the ability to assume obligations in the event of EU membership. Those criteria must continue to be met by Turkey and, in other words, the goalposts have not been moved. The demands for Turkey are the same today as they have been all along. Over the past 10 years, the basis for the EU accession negotiations with the candidate countries has been a tight negotiating framework in which negotiations are an open process and the outcome has not been given in advance. The EU's ability to absorb new members also plays a role. This also applies to Turkey. Negotiations with Turkey began on 3 October 2005, precisely on the basis of such a tight negotiating framework. The requirements for the candidate countries are therefore set and must be met. It is ultimately up to Turkey to decide whether they want to do so and, therefore, whether they want to continue the reform process and the EU track. I and the government cannot in any way see Turkey, as we know it today, becoming a member of the European Union. Of course it is. This will require a marked change in Turkey in order to be able to talk about it at all, and that is the point. Turkey must change and must choose a path that brings it closer to Europe rather than the opposite. This is in both our interests and those of Turkey. On the part of the government, we believe that it should not be the European Union that slams the door. No one has any idea that Turkey will join the European Union, either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or in the near future, but we have no interest in pushing Turkey further away from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102257	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102259	Thank you. After all, the Minister referred to the fact that we have had a debate on Turkey in the past. The debates in which we have participated from the Danish People's Party relate to things from before the coup attempt, which is why we think it is appropriate to raise the debate again today. Well, I'm aware that it seems to me that sir... Anders Samuelsen has changed her mind at least if you are to take what Mrs Mette Bock said to Politiken on 18 July 2016 as an expression of the position of the Liberal Alliance: unfortunately, on her own initiative, Turkey has deprived itself of the opportunity to become a member of the European Union. It is inconceivable that a country with a government that puts the rule of law out of operation can be a member state. The European Union has other things to do. That's what Mrs. Mette Bock said at the time. What has changed since Mrs Mette Bock said this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102356	You don't say sir. Anders Samuelsen, the Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102401	However, what Mrs Mette Bock has said is that, with the current situation, Turkey cannot become a member of the European Union, and that is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102416	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102419	So I have to understand that the Foreign Minister actually agrees with Mrs Mette Bock, even though the Foreign Minister here expresses something else. Is it because the Secretary of State here represents the government and not the Liberal Alliance, or what should be taken as an expression of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102439	As I mentioned in my speech, for example. the question of the death penalty, which is currently being discussed in Turkey, in every way a game-shop in relation to a membership of the European Union. Such a proposal will then be put into practice and the death penalty will begin to be carried out in Turkey, but then it will in itself completely put an end to the process. What is happening at the moment is a step away from EU membership, and the point of maintaining the process and dialogue with Turkey is, of course, to get them back on a path where they approach the legal standards that we know in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102523	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102527	Thank you. As I see it, the proposal made here by the Danish People's Party is a Christmas present to Turkish President Erdogan. There is no doubt that this proposal will be adopted, that negotiations with Turkey will be permanently suspended and the tens of thousands of parliamentarians, mayors, journalists, academics, professionally active, etc. who are currently in Turkish prisons will be abandoned. That is why, of course, we in the Enhedslisten will not support this motion for a resolution, but we will table an amendment to the effect that negotiations will not be stopped permanently, but that negotiations will be suspended until democratic rights are guaranteed. I know that, when we last had the question debate with the former Foreign Minister, the Liberal Alliance declared itself open to support this at some point. I would like to know if this could now be the position of the government. Conservatives did the same when we had that debate. Could the government support the Enhedslisten's amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102635	No, it is not the government's starting point that we will support that proposal. Our starting point is to maintain and expand the pressure on Turkey to change course, and we do not believe that this is done with suspension.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102652	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102655	Of course, I'm sorry to hear that. I think it would just be to put a hard fight against Erdogan, so I am sorry to hear that this is the position of the government. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this pressure on Erdogan, which the Minister has just spoken about. I know that the Foreign Minister was at the NATO summit and met his Turkish colleague. I assume, of course, that the Foreign Minister followed up the resolution in this Parliament and demanded the release of parliamentarians and journalists who are currently in prison. So I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister what the answer was from his Turkish colleague when the Foreign Minister made the request for release.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102733	First to the part about suspension. When we reject it, it is precisely for the sake of the people whom Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen himself points to the opposition. These are the people who actually want us to continue a critical dialogue and to help push and see the European Union as perhaps one of the last hopes. So I think that is quite essential to remember the argument that was used in the first place to reject, also applies here. I should like to return to the second point.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102812	Thank you. And then it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102816	Thank you, President. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister about the current situation, which has, of course, become particularly critical following the attempted coup in Turkey earlier this year. But that does not change the fact that a large number of the warning indicators that are coming came before the attempted coup, among other things. In relation to the way in which the Turkish Government has now chosen to force the free press, a number of newspapers and so on. It was a few things that were going on before the coup attempt. In our view, much more critical action should already have been taken there. What has happened since then is that we can see that a large number of higher education and colleges have also been closed down, etc. Students have been expelled, teachers have also been fired, and the vast majority of the judges have been fired in Turkey. It is very, very dangerous things that are happening, and there I think it is a little poor if it does not give the Foreign Minister the opportunity here today to say in concrete terms that we are now stopping these accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102928	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208102929	I fully agree with Mr. His Kristian Skibby in that some of the things we get intelligence about going on in Turkey at this time are deeply critical. I can therefore answer the previous question, namely that of course I raised the situation when I had a meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister the other day, and I pointed out that Denmark is deeply concerned about what is going on. But it is still the wrong answer to suspend or suspend the negotiations completely, because where does it leave the opposition? Where does it leave the 52 percent who didn't vote for Erdogan? What kind of hope are we giving them? We're not giving them any hope. We are turning out the hope that their situation can be improved. After all, it is the European Union that is putting the pressure on Turkey to do so. If we first turn our backs completely on Turkey and do not keep them on a track, the Turks will be left completely in the arms of the existing regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103025	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103026	Thank you for your answer, but I think it is a bit like a naive approach to the consequences of what is happening, because there must also be a limit to when to say that dialogue is the right way forward. For many years we have had a dialogue with the Turkish President about their democracy and so on, but that does not change the fact that what has happened, even before the coup attempt, has been so crazy to put it bluntly that more needs to be done than just saying that more dialogue is needed. There must also be some consequence. If we are not to be held accountable as a political leader in Turkey, among other things. by seeing that their accession negotiations and 10 years of work crumble for them, then it ends up with a photograph in the Chamber by the Minister, a situation in which the democratic basic principles are not taken care of. And they are the ones who have been trampled underfoot in Turkey today. These are the basic principles of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103124	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103125	I am not going to conclude on whether I and the rest of the European Community are naive in this situation. But perhaps there are other elements that should be considered by the Danish People's Party. Well, it's a fact that at this point there are about. Three million refugees in Turkey and, of course, people can be kicked so much over their feet that they finally think: well, maybe it is not Turkey they should be in. Perhaps we should let them out on the European roads so that they end up at Padborg and get that way through Denmark. Is this the situation that the Danish People's Party wants? Isn't it a rather naive approach to life to think that you won't see reactions coming from the other side as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103208	It is allowed to photograph a little in the hall if it is done discreetly. Is that a brief comment from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103213	Thank you. At first I joined, and then I resigned again, but then I joined again. It is just as a follow-up to the Enhedslisten's question. It is excellent and good that the Foreign Minister made criticisms when he met with Turkey's representative down in Brussels, but it might be interesting to hear whether the Foreign Minister also, following the joint adoption that we all, except the Danish People's Party, were united, made a real demand for the release of the imprisoned HDP members and imprisoned journalists. Can the Secretary of State tell you about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103251	No, I am not referring to confidential conversations. I think that there is great respect for that from the rapporteur, but I would say in that way that the Turkish Foreign Minister was left in no doubt that the Danish Government and the entire Danish Parliament are highly critical of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103311	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103312	We shall have to settle for that. As I also intend to say in my own rapporteur's speech, we share the view of the Foreign Minister that accession negotiations should not be suspended. However, it is clear that we, the Folketing and the government, have to maintain at all times not only a pressure but also a firm demand that Turkey live up to the commitments they have and also the demands we may have for the release of political prisoners, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103341	But that is precisely the point of maintaining the negotiating track, so we have an opportunity to maintain requirements that must be met before we can reach the finish line. That is the whole point, so we share the view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103357	Thank you, Minister. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103414	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that we are seeing very, very seriously and very, very much concern about developments in Turkey. We have also had occasion here in the Folketing on several occasions both to discuss the situation, but also to discuss the consequences that should or should not have for the relations Denmark and the European Union are, moreover, involved with Turkey. I think that we in the Folketing have been good at agreeing on tough criticism of developments in Turkey. I think we have been good at making a number of demands on Turkey in broad agreement. If, however, although we look very seriously at developments in the human rights situation, the development of freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, etc., we cannot support the resolution today, it has two reasons. Firstly, we believe, also following on from what the Foreign Minister said, that in the long run it can help to push Turkey even further away from Europe, even further away from democratisation, even further away from openness and the pressure on the developments that are taking place today. Secondly, one consequence of part of the agreement that the European Union has concluded with Turkey on the refugee facility is that we want to keep talking to Turkey about the country becoming a member of our community in the long run. Having said that, I do not see why Turkey is in the near future or in the very distant future capable of meeting any of the requirements for membership of the European Union. There is a great lack of human rights, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression. We are experiencing how parts of this situation almost daily get worse. Basically, however, I belong to a political philosophy which believes in negotiation, which believes in dialogue, which believes that through the still extended arm we can keep Turkey on a fairly good track. It is clear that it cannot continue forever, and that is why we must continue to have the ongoing debate here in the Danish Parliament, which I also welcome, and which the Danish People's Party continues to insist on us having. We cannot support the resolution today, and I have also promised to announce on behalf of the SF that, with the same arguments, they will not be able to support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103700	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103702	Thank you, Madam President. I take note of what the rapporteur says. I note, however, that on 24 November 2016, the rapporteur's colleagues in the European Parliament voted in favour of a proposal to temporarily suspend the accession negotiations with Turkey, in other words, just what I can also hear that the Enhedslisten intends to table amendments to the proposal, and we would also very much like to support that. Will the rapporteur and the Social Democrats support a proposal which concerns a temporary suspension, in other words the same proposal that the rapporteur's party colleagues have voted in favour of in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103748	I must be honest and say that I am aware that our Members of the European Parliament have voted as they have. I have not been aware that there is that amendment before the rapporteur from the Enhedslist mentioned it. So we are actually going to take this seriously into consideration in the second reading of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103806	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103807	Of course, I welcome this, because I think it is important to recognise the parties all the way down, in fact from the European Parliament to the municipal councils, and that what is said in one place is also said and done elsewhere. So, of course, I hope and look forward to the Social Democrats pressing the green button when this amendment comes through.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103831-2	I cannot guarantee that we will press the green button, but I can guarantee that we will be seriously involved in the examination of the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103843	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103848	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that the Social Democrats will consider the amendment that we are going to table on behalf of the Enhedslisten, and I would just like to point out in this context that this is not a discussion about whether or not we should have a dialogue with Turkey. After all, we have a close relationship with Turkey through its membership of the Council of Europe and through the NATO alliance, where both Denmark and Turkey are involved, and of course also through the accession negotiations for EU membership. So, as I see it, this is a question of whether you want to speak in capital letters in that dialogue, and that is why I would just like to call on the Social Democrats to seriously consider supporting the amendment, so that hopefully we can have a majority in the Folketing who, like the European Parliament, speaks in capital letters with President Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208103938	I am glad that the rapporteur thinks so. As I mentioned earlier, we would very much like to speak in very large letters with regard to Erdogan and with regard to Turkey, because, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we are very concerned about the developments we are seeing. If we are not able to support this motion for a resolution, or if accession negotiations are to be abandoned at all, then that is due to me, I think, of course, to a balance. I actually believe that a major reason why we have seen the lucrative development of democracy in Turkey, among other things. is that for many, many years, Turkey has been held back by the European Union and has not continued down the path in which Turkey has been able to see itself becoming a member of the European Union in the future. It is clear that they should not be allowed to do so as long as they do not meet the Copenhagen criteria and a whole range of other conditions, but I am convinced that the fact that we have always held Turkey out in an outstretched arm has also helped them to move away from Europe. That is the balance that it is important for us, at least, to maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104055	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104056	There is no doubt, as I said earlier to the Foreign Minister, that there is no greater Christmas present for Turkish President Erdogan than to adopt the proposal from the Danish People's Party which lies here, and that is of course why we cannot support it, and I am glad that the Social Democrats cannot either. But there is, of course, a significant difference in saying that we are suspending the negotiations until democratic rights are guaranteed, and there I would just like to sign that the Social Democrats will seriously consider it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104128	I can confirm that we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104133	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104143	Our struggle to ensure the stability and future of our country will not be interrupted by European legislators raising or lowering their hands. That is what Turkey's President Recep Erdogan said when the European Parliament voted last month to pause negotiations with Turkey on future membership. And although this was a fairly clear statement, in which 479 voted in favour and only 37 against, unfortunately, the vote is ineffective, because no matter what leaps the European Union takes towards Erdogan, it seems that it is very, very difficult to change the course he has set for Turkey. With Erdogan at the helm, Turkey has recently moved very far away from the democratic standards that must permeate any society that is in view of future EU membership. We have among other things. witnessed violent purges in the public administration and the judiciary, where more than 100,000 people have lost their jobs. An example of quite unnecessarily harsh conduct we saw, among other things, when the Turkish authorities arrested 11 democratically elected MPs from the Kurdish party HDP, on the pretext that they were associated with the militant Kurds in the PKK. It is, of course, quite unacceptable that democratically elected members of a national assembly should be arrested solely on the basis of their political affiliation and without there being any evidence that they should be in league with militant groups. That is why the European Union's response has also been tough and cash. The EU Minister for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, has expressed strong concern about developments and has strongly warned Erdogan not to continue her harsh approach to his political opponents. At home, as has also been explained by our new Foreign Minister, the government has called the Turkish Ambassador for an interview and thereby impressed Denmark's concern about developments in Turkey. Despite the fact that there is broad agreement that we are witnessing very worrying developments in Turkey, the straw of the European Union in this respect is the diplomatic relations that we are currently maintaining with Turkey because of their status as a candidate country. If we do not have strong diplomatic relations, I fear that we risk losing contact with the Turkish regime altogether, thereby losing the opportunity to influence Turkey in the desired direction of reform. That is why I am also opposed to today's motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, not because the proposal does not give a proper diagnosis of Turkey right now, but because we are voting against it because it is the wrong medicine in the current situation. If the EU deletes Turkey from the list of potential candidate countries, we will reduce Turkey to a country within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, as the proposers also mention in the proposal. This really leaves us with the same diplomatic options as we have for countries such as Egypt, Libya or Tunisia. And why is that a bad idea? Yes, because if we are to help the Turks who are currently suffering from Erdogan's regime and who are being persecuted, fired and even tortured, then we need strong diplomatic ties. This requires us to maintain diplomatic relations with Turkey, which commits Turkey both to human rights, to case law and to democracy. If we cut off these ties, we will cut off the possibility of helping the democratic and opposition forces in Turkey, which are currently under great pressure. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Left is deeply concerned about the developments that Turkey is currently going through, and I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate, because the debate is important. The rules of democracy are so much under pressure, and Erdogan is doing what he can to intimidate, persecute and press political opponents and ethnic minorities. That is precisely why the European Union must stick to it. We must maintain close relations and not punish the innocent and reform-friendly forces by withdrawing diplomatic emotions. The Left is therefore voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104602	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104607	Thank you. I am sorry that the Left does not support our proposal, but I assume that the Left will support the amendment tabled by the Enhedslisten. After all, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left voted in the European Parliament to temporarily suspend accession negotiations with Turkey. And I'll tell you briefly what, sir. Morten Løkkegaard, MEP of the Left, said in this regard. He said he didn't believe the Turks dropped that refugee agreement. There is too much mutual interest for them to do so," says Morten Løkkegaard. And continues: it is not about turning your back on Turkey. We must speak clearly now in a language Erdogan understands. You have to be careful not to show weakness. It was therefore Morten Løkkegaard's motivation to vote in favour of the proposal in the European Parliament for temporary suspension. So I'd really like to hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, whether the Left here at Christiansborg will do the same as the Left has done in the European Parliament, in other words voting for temporary suspension.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104711	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104712	We are not prepared to do so immediately, but it is something on which we need to have a debate. After all, it is a matter of finding the right balance. In other words, when do we push too much so that it has some inappropriate consequences, and when do we push too little so that the Turks do not care? It's a very, very difficult balance. Unfortunately, I do not think that there are any easy solutions, and if it had been a 30 year younger version of myself who had stood up here on the platform, it may well be that I had gone forward more with fire and fire and had taken the big words in my mouth. But I must also acknowledge that diplomacy is therefore a difficult art and a matter of being very balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104759	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104800	I think that this is a pity, because, as the rapporteur rightly said, that vote in the European Parliament is ineffective because the European Parliament has no power in this area. They can only recommend and hope, etc. And there is something different about the Folketing, you might say, because we have the right to equip the Minister with a mandate. So if we could agree here that it was the Danish position to temporarily suspend Turkey's accession negotiations, that was also the government's position. I am a little sad that the rapporteur does not just bite to sleep and say: of course we are saying the same thing here in Christiansborg as in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104844	So, in practice, the negotiations have been paused, and right now nobody imagines that Turkey can join the European Union. There must be violent changes before they can be discussed. But the possibility is there, and we are not turning out the lights completely. Then we can discuss what a freeze is and what a break is. And if the Foreign Minister asks for an enhanced mandate, then I would expect us to be responsive. But the Secretary of State has not asked for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104916	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208104920	Thank you. In the last few days, I have noticed that after we have got the new government in Denmark, it has become modern that one thing is meant as a representative of the government and another thing as a representative of its party. I have noted that both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, when we last had the debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber, came forward to consider supporting the amendment that the Enhedslisten will now be tabling, suspending the negotiations until democratic rights are guaranteed. The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left also voted in favour of the European Parliament. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur from the Left: is the Left, which is currently the party in the government that stands firm not to support a suspension, or is all three parties united on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105015	It's a good attempt, but shouldn't we just leave it at that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105018	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105021	That's fair enough. Then I would just urge the Left to consider being open to the amendment as well. It is positive that both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have submitted themselves openly to consider it. I would also urge the Left to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105042	I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105044	That's it. Then it is the next rapporteur who is actually Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105107	The situation in Turkey right now is totally unacceptable. The political opposition is imprisoned, the leaders of the leading opposition party HDP are imprisoned like eight other members of the party's parliament. Thus, over 5 million voters have been deprived of their elected representatives in the Turkish Parliament. 47 Kurdish mayors have been forcibly removed and imprisoned. This means that millions of citizens in the Kurdish municipalities have also been deprived of their local elected representatives. Instead, the municipalities are led by government appointed administrators who fire professionally organised employees and undemocratically introduce Erdogan's stick-conservative and Islamist legislation, which, for example, targets equality initiatives with closure of women's crisis centres and even with examples that a newly appointed administrator has published the names of women who have reported wife violence. But MEPs and mayors are not alone. Tens of thousands of journalists, judges, lawyers, academics, professionally active women's defenders and LGBT activists are currently in prison. In the face of the state of emergency following the failure of the coup, Erdogan has simply shorted out democracy. In the Kurdish territories, more than 350,000 people have now been driven from their homes, destroyed by the Turkish Government's army. Large areas are devastated and the number of refugees will undoubtedly explode unless democracy and human rights are restored and respected if there is no peaceful and political way forward for Turkey's democratic opposition. That is why it is essential, not only for the democratic opposition in Turkey, but also for us here in Europe, that pressure be put on Erdogan. It's gotta be hard on you. But the proposal from the Danish People's Party does not. It is just a repeat of an eternal song about permanent and forever to stop accession negotiations for Turkish membership of the European Union. It won't push Erdogan. It will be a gigantic Christmas present for the despot. On the other hand, it will hit the democratic opposition hard, abandon the tens of thousands who are currently in prison, abandon the hundreds of thousands who have fled their homes, abandon the courageous people who, despite the repression, continue to fight against Erdogan's regime. Therefore, Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal from the Danish People's Party in its present form. However, we will be tabling an amendment during the committee procedure so that the accession negotiations are not stopped permanently, but so that they are suspended until democratic rights are restored in Turkey. It simply does not make sense to negotiate EU membership with a country that imprisons its democratic opposition. This amendment is a follow-up to the adoption by the European Parliament in which the Socialists, Liberals and Conservatives voted in favour, just as the Greens and the Left did, as it is in line with the unanimous adoption by the Austrian Parliament of the suspension of the accession negotiations proposed by the Green Party. We are not powerless towards Erdogan. Turkey receives around 4 billion tax dollars annually as part of the accession process. If the negotiations are suspended until the repression stops, it will be to close the hot water to Erdogan. Turkey also has a customs union with the European Union. This brings great benefits to the Turkish Government. We saw how the Russian sanctions targeted Erdogan hit Turkey hard and pushed Erdogan to his knees. If you were merely playing with the idea that the European Union did the same thing, there is no doubt that the Turkish economy, and hence the Turkish President Erdogan, would quickly be forced to the negotiating table and brought to his knees. I think it is important to emphasise that we can act and we must act. We have to fight Erdogan hard. Therefore, the Enhedslisten will not support the Danish People's Party's proposal in its present form, but we hope for broad support for our amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105605	Thank you. There are no comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105617	Thank you. The developments in Turkey are indeed worrying. We discussed the situation in detail here in the Folketing in November and it has not improved since then. It is not my impression that in the Folketing there is more than one attitude towards President Erdogan's government in Turkey, which represents an unprecedented serious undermining of fundamental freedoms and democracy. The question then is what are we going to do? It is not the view of the Liberal Alliance that a stop to accession negotiations with the European Union, as the Danish People's Party is proposing here, is the right thing to do. It will hardly benefit the Turkish people. Nor will it benefit the EU or Denmark. Whatever we decide here, Turkey will still be a neighbouring country of the European Union, and we have no interest in pushing Turkey into the arms of the Middle East. I do not see Turkey becoming a member of the European Union in anything just like a near horizon. They are moving almost day by day further and further away from complying with standards of democracy and human rights, but let us maintain pressure on them through negotiations instead of risking putting us in a situation where we are getting more difficult to put pressure on Turkey. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105740	There are a few comments. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105741	Thank you. The rapporteur said that we will have more difficulty putting pressure on Turkey if this proposal is adopted. Why, then, did Mrs Mette Bock reason as she did on 18 July when she said that there was no reason to deal more with Turkey. Is Mrs Christina Egelund different from Mrs Mette Bock, or has a change of course been made at the Liberal Alliance? I fully respect if you have it, but then I just think you should mention it, so we are aware that you have changed course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105823	Mrs Mette Bock has not said that Turkey should not be dealt with, on the contrary. She has said that it is difficult and close to impossible to continue the negotiations. But Mrs Mette Bock has not said that we in Europe should not concern ourselves with Turkey, and I agree with that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105843	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105845	As Mrs Mette Bock said, I quote: the EU has other things to do. In other words, it cannot be very different from a clear indication that the position of Mrs Mette Bock back to 18 July was that the European Union should not spend any more effort on Turkey in the European Union. The European Union could just stop these negotiations. This is, of course, the same position as we stand on, which is why I was so pleased with Mrs Mette Bock's statements back then, and I am sorry that Mrs Christina Egelund does not seem to support Mrs Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208105920	I believe that what Mrs Mette Bock has said is an irritation about developments in Turkey, because it is clear that it would be better both for Europe, but especially for the Turkish citizens, that developments were different in Turkey than they are. And by the way, it can't be surprising, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that this is the position of the Liberal Alliance. We have discussed this problem, as far as I remember twice or three times during the autumn, and perhaps there was also a discussion just before the summer recess. And it is good that we continue to have dialogue, including here in the Chamber, on how we stand. We must keep track of developments in Turkey. However, in the various debates we have had, the Liberal Alliance has stuck to the fact that it is not the solution to stop negotiations with Turkey on accession to the European Union, while we have always pointed out that we do not see that Turkey can join the European Union in something just like a distant future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110020	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110024	Thank you. I would also like to ask what the position of the Liberal Alliance is on the amendment that the Enhedslisten will be proposing to suspend accession negotiations until democratic rights are restored. We have discussed this before. There was the Liberal Alliance not for the Enhedslisten's proposal, but it was said that one was open to considering it. Now I heard from the Secretary of State that this was not the position of the government. I would then like to hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur whether that is because the Liberal Alliance has changed its position on this matter, or that is because there is an internal discussion within the government about the position to be taken and whether we should possibly support such an amendment as Enhedslisten puts forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110110	No, it's not. It is a sign that we have discussed it. I think it was during the debate here in Parliament in November that we also discussed these matters. And when we said that you can be open to that, it's really just an expression that you can't forever know what the position will be. Well, we don't know what the development is like. But as it is right now, that is also what I said at the time, and that is what I am saying today. We do not think it makes sense either to do as the Danish People's Party proposes, namely to stop the negotiations, or to do what the Enhedslisten proposes, namely to suspend them. Because I think the consequence of both will be the same. The consequence will be that we close a negotiating room. We're shutting down the possibility of putting pressure on Erdogan. And if there is anything that Turkish citizens, who are oppressed by Erdogan, do not need, it is that the European Union is turning its back on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110201	Thank you. Well, nobody talks about stopping the dialogue except the Danish People's Party. At least we don't do that on the Enhedslisten side. What we are talking about is simply talking in capital letters in the dialogue that is ongoing with Turkey. Denmark has a close relationship with Turkey, for example. the country's membership of the Council of Europe, its membership of NATO and then these accession negotiations. I would just like to hear something from the rapporteur. It is clear that nothing can be ruled out forever. But when is enough? What we see is that it just goes from bad to worse and to extremely bad. That is also why we have had the many debates on Turkey in the Folketing over the past year. So when's enough? When will the Liberal Alliance say that we could then consider supporting the Enhedslisten's amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110256	First of all to the opening remarks: I have no reason at all to doubt either Mr Kellett-Bowman or Mr Kellett-Bowman. Nikolaj Villumsen's or Enhedslisten's sincere interest in helping Turkish citizens who are oppressed by a common dictator. I actually believe that we are very much in line with each other in this respect. And on the other hand, if I knew what developments are going to be in Turkey in the future, I might be able to point out a date and say that that is the day that enough is enough. But, of course, we do not know what developments are going to be, and that is why we need to take a position on the reality as it is today. And as the reality is today, I believe that it would be unfavorable for the Turks, in other words for the Turkish citizens, and I also believe that it would be unfavorable for Europe at some level to close, stop, suspend accession negotiations. It is then a strategic balance of what is the wisest thing to do. I think we both agree on what the target is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110350	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110356	The situation in Turkey is under all criticism. Free media are being shut down, journalists and judges are being put behind bars, the Kurds are being systematically persecuted and our colleagues in the Turkish Parliament are even being put behind bars. Furthermore, there is also a serious talk about reintroducing the death penalty. This cannot go unnoticed and we have an obligation to respond. We must put maximum pressure on Turkey. In this respect, we must constantly consider how we put pressure so that Turkey feels that it has sequences when human rights are violated, while at the same time we do not cut ourselves off from the possibility of having a dialogue. I do not believe that we should stop the accession negotiations with Turkey. I do not think it will have the desired effect, on the contrary. But that is not to say that we cannot use the negotiations as a tool to push Turkey. The European Parliament has just decided to recommend a freeze on the negotiations. I think this is a better solution as it does not cut off any kind of dialogue. We therefore recommend that the negotiations be frozen in such a way that no new accession chapters are opened until the situation in Turkey has normalised. The rule of law and respect for human rights must be on the right track before negotiations can be extended. Once the state of emergency has ceased, we will review this position. However, we also believe that if we are to put real pressure on Turkey, we need to get our asylum and refugee policy under control in the European Union. With the EU-Turkey refugee agreement, we have outsourced our refugee policy to Turkey. Given the harsher tones of Parliament and several EU countries, Erdogan has threatened to scrap the agreement and send refugees up through Europe. For fear of this, the European Union is virtually the barrage of action against Turkey. Turkey houses over 3 million refugees, of whom 2.7 million are Syrian refugees, most of whom have fled in recent years. With a functioning asylum system and a fair redistribution mechanism, the EU will be much stronger vis-à-vis Turkey. That is why we must work to scrap the refugee agreement and instead introduce a fair and well-functioning refugee and asylum policy in the European Union. As the United Nations recommended just a few days ago, the European Union needs to develop a common policy to ensure the joint reception and distribution of refugees; a plan that guarantees refugees the right to protection and aid for the distribution of refugees appropriately among the Member States of the European Union; and, of course, a plan that ensures that people who are not entitled to protection can be returned home again. I have noticed that the government's basis says that we need a new asylum system. I can only support this. I believe that the government should be committed to this through the European Union. We should not outsource our policy in the way we have done to Turkey. We have a responsibility to live up to human rights and to ensure that people fleeing fair treatment and protection. The EU agreement with Turkey does not guarantee this. That is why we, together with other progressive forces in DiEM25, support a trial against the refugee agreement at the European Court of Justice, which has been raised by Shabbir Iqbal. I am not going to talk about this here any more, but it is just to say that if we are seriously going to sanction Turkey, it is no good that we still have this agreement, both because it is contrary to basic human rights, but also because it binds us on our hands and feet in relation to Turkey. So we would like to call for the negotiations to be frozen. We do not believe that we should scrap the negotiations and stop them altogether, but we must preserve this room for dialogue. Most importantly, we believe that we should scrap the refugee agreement and replace it with a well-functioning and fair asylum and refugee policy, which has our ideals of human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110751	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110757	Thank you, Madam President. I really think that was a relatively clear rapporteur's speech by Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist. I just need to be absolutely sure that I have understood correctly, namely that the alternative is therefore prepared to support an amendment which relates to a temporary suspension. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110820	That depends entirely on the wording of that amendment. As I said quite clearly, a freeze is for us not to go further in the negotiations, but there are some chapters, some parts that are open, and we believe that we should continue them at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110834	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110837	It made it a little harder for me to understand, unfortunately. Let me try to put it another way: Rasmus Nordqvist and the alternative to the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 24 November on temporary suspension?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110856	I would say that I have tried to find out exactly what is meant by that suspension. Is it the end of all contact with the negotiations that have already been opened, the chapters that have been opened, or is it the end of the coming? That is what we are investigating. As I said very clearly, we understand the freezing of the debate as if no new accession chapters were opened until the situation in Turkey has normalised.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110919	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208110924	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I very much agree that the European Union is extremely weak against Erdogan, but indeed other despots in the vicinity of the European Union by not being able to find a solution of solidarity on the issue of refugees, thereby being vulnerable to pressure from Erdogan, but also to others who could do the same. We are in complete agreement on that. I think it is a good thing that the alternative says that we will support a freeze so that we do not go further than where we are already negotiating. I would like to call on the alternative to consider the possibility of also supporting an amendment that goes on like saying that we are stopping here, it does not make sense to continue, as we have done so far in the light of a situation in which the democratic opposition is imprisoned. So it was an invitation to look at it openly in the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111026	I can promise you that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen that we do. We are very concerned about this matter and are constantly following it and are also constantly assessing whether there is a need to take some new steps. That's also why we've actually moved, compared to what we said, the last time we discussed this. We think that something new needs to be done. There has also been the announcement by the European Parliament which, I believe, also supports it. So we keep a close eye on the situation and constantly look at whether we are taking the right steps, but also that we are not using all our cards at once, because that is what we are left weakly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111058	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111100	I would just like to say that it is quite interesting in today's debate that there is a potential majority in favour of this amendment that the Enhedslisten will be tabling, and it is positive that the alternative will also consider it, because it offers the possibility of that majority potentially being used. So it's just a receipt for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111131	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111133	I think one thing needs to be made clear, and that is that despite the developments we are witnessing, it is still a light in the dark that Turkey wants and is interested in EU membership in the long term. For there is no doubt that Turkey is currently experiencing a very worrying development, in which opposition politicians, civil servants and so on are imprisoned, in other words they do not live up to human rights at all, do not meet the criteria that they have to meet in order to be part of the European Union. And that's why it's a light in the dark and a certain encouragement that they haven't said in the same movement: well, then we'll drop the idea of becoming a member of the European Union, because we don't subscribe at all to that democracy and those human rights. That is why I really think it is a really bad place to push Turkey, because that is almost the only positive thing that can be said about Turkey right now, in addition to the many wonderful people who live in Turkey, who are our friends, who we care about and who are also one of the reasons why we want Turkey to be a member of the European Union. But one of the few positive things is that Turkey itself has not turned its back on the European Union and said: we no longer want membership of the European Union. That they saw in everything they do and now maybe I shouldn't say they did but that Erdogan in everything he does, in reality, postpones EU membership is, of course, something we cannot ignore and something that we must of course discuss. But if the reaction is to say that Turkey might as well drop the idea of ever becoming a member of the European Union, then I think it is a strange place to push Turkey and Erdogan. It is a strange place, because it may be the light that is in the dark, but also the light that is in the dark, and I am very pleased that Enhedslisten has also pointed out that there is an opposition that is relatively large, although it is strongly challenged and pressed right now, which also sees it as the light in the dark: the possibility of the European track. And that's why it's a door we don't have to slam in. That is why I think it is something that has been mentioned here by several speakers from the Danish Parliament that it is about how we believe that the European Union will best reverse the developments that are taking place now. Or maybe I should put it differently, because I really believe that the problem is different: it is about how the European Union can best avoid pushing Turkey even further in the very worrying direction Turkey is heading in. I believe, as others have said from up here, that a slammed door, an out-of-fashioned hope and an out-of-fashioned dream of EU membership will push Turkey even further away from the European Union. This will push even further away the hope of democracy and human rights for the Turks, the Turkish people. Unfortunately, however, it will also push the hope for Europe to have a large Turkey with which one can cooperate, with which one can be trusted, further away. For one thing, human rights for the Turks are important, and that is of course the most important thing, but something else is of course about this being a big and important country for the European Union and for Denmark. Right now, Turkey has 3 million refugees. Turkey also plays a role in the Middle East conflict. This is an incredibly important task, and that is why it is in our interest to work for good development in Turkey, not only for the Turks, but for our own sake. That is why I believe that both the consideration of idealism for the Turkish people, but also realism for ourselves, is in favour of doing what we believe can prevent Turkey from getting even further out of the very worrying plank they are on their way out. Membership negotiations, although they have actually been frozen right now, are nevertheless an opportunity, an opportunity, an opportunity for a critical dialogue, for a monitoring that would otherwise not be justified. That is why, of course, we believe that criticism should be voiced against Turkey. We must constantly draw the attention of the people of Turkey, especially those who voted for him, to Erdogan: every time you imprison an opposition politician, you take yourself further away from the European Union. But it's your choice. It is you who are moving away from the European Union. It is not the European Union that is moving away from you. It is not we who put out the dream of human rights and the dream of Europe and the European Union. It's Erdogan. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111650	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111654	No, I'm not surprised either, Mrs. Zenia Stampe. But I think it would be very interesting to know what the Radical Left intends to do about the amendment tabled by the Enhedslisten. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, Mr President, the European Parliament is extremely numerous. Morten Helveg Petersen and Mr. Jens Rohde, and as far as I remember, one of the two gentlemen was not present at the vote in question. But the other one voted in favour. In other words, if there is to be any connection between what the Radical Left says in the European Parliament and what the Radical Left says in this Chamber, then I assume that the Radical Left supports the temporary suspension of the accession negotiations with Turkey, including here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111742	We'll discuss that. I doubt that we will support it in the parliamentary group, because I do not think it will in any way help to move Turkey in the right direction. But if my parliamentary group thinks otherwise, that is something we should discuss. We did not discuss the amendment when we discussed the resolution, because it had not arrived at us at the time, so of course I will have to return with my group. I do not think that this is something that can lead Turkey to change its course, and that is why it will not be my recommendation. But it has happened before that I have been voted down in my group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111818	So I have to understand that Mrs Zenia Stampe disagrees with her group in the European Parliament, Mr. Jens Rohde and Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen. What they have voted for in the European Parliament is not a radical policy. You have voted in favour of something else. They may have been following because so many people voted for this. But I have to understand that it is a criticism from Mrs Zenia Stampe's side of the vote that Mrs Zenia Stampe's radical colleagues, Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen and Mr. Jens Rohde, has done in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111855	I would like to speak to my Members of the European Parliament and discuss the matter. However, this is a decision we are making in our parliamentary group, and it is, moreover, independent of the decision that has been taken in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111909	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. The Socialist People's Party's rapporteur is not here, and we shall move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208111925	I could understand that the proposer, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, came under fire for some slightly untenable views in this debate. But of course only as a warning shot I could understand. But let me put aside the back crawl and say that we think, in a way, that there is a lot of sense in Turkey not being part of the European Union. In fact, I also wanted to be able to support this proposal, because I do not believe that Turkey belongs in the European Union. It is not a European country, and what is happening in Turkey and the form of government that they have down there do not belong in a circle of European democracies at all. So we do not believe that Turkey should join the European Union. That is why, of course, it may also seem a little strange that we think that we should continue the negotiations at the moment. However, there are simply some real policy considerations which many of the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and that is that if we stop the negotiations now, it will be seen as a very gross insult in Turkey. It will close a door and will make relations with Turkey worse at a time when we do not think that relationship can bear it. So, for that reason, we will not be supporting the resolution, although we agree that Turkey should not become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112109	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112111	Now I do not know who is out here in the back crawl, but I now think it sounded as if the rapporteur was not quite as bad in the discipline that he himself might give the impression of. I would just like to say that on 14 August the rapporteur's colleague, Mr Seligman, said: Naser Khader, something rather landmark, I think, and very clear. He said: "It is the whole package that makes Turkey no longer suitable for being a country to negotiate with accession to the European Union. The country is not worthy of this. These are clear words, it has to be said, in an early morning, and I understand that the rapporteur really wants to support the proposal. But what you want is something a little strange, because if you want to do something and it's something nice... it's not really a question of putting a sugar bang extra in your tea or something... because it's just a question of pressing the right button in relation to the policy you say you have... then I just don't understand why you don't. So the rapporteur has to do a little bit with regard to what is happening with these real political challenges, because I really thought that Conservative policy could be accommodated in real policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112223	I do not think I can say much differently, but of course I would like to try to repeat the argument as to why we do not support the resolution. And it is that we believe it will create a conflict with Turkey that we do not want to take. Especially at the moment, when there is already a very tense situation. However, it is equally clear that we do not believe that the negotiations with Turkey should lead to their becoming members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112250	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112252	In the European Parliament there was this much-discussed resolution on 24 November. And Mr. If the Conservatives do not want to stop the accession negotiations altogether, can the Conservatives be persuaded to vote for a temporary suspension, so that there is cohesion between what is said in the Folketing and what is said in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112319	I am a little bound by the fact that the Conservative People's Party is now in government, which means that we cannot conduct our own foreign policy. So I think that the discussion about whether this can be a way forward will have to take place in the government. I simply do not have a mandate to suddenly point a direction away from the rest of the government. But I agree with my fellow party members, Mr. Naser Khader and Mr. Bendt Bendtsen that we are opposed to Turkey being a member of the European Union. So what we are discussing here is really just, you might say, a middle way to the conclusion that will have to come at some point, namely that they cannot be a member of the European Union. And I understand, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's need for more clear lines, but there are also some practical considerations in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112408	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112411	Thank you. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at that statement, that is, that the Conservative People's Party should be against Turkey's accession to the European Union. It is, of course, a new position, as I understand it, and it will come at a time when we are in a government where we have just heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs be negative even about a suspension of the negotiations until democratic rights are guaranteed, on which the Enhedslisten will be tabling amendments. I just have to understand it right: is it the case that the Conservative People's Party wants a stop and perhaps would also be positive about a suspension, but just cannot get it through in the government at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112501	It's not like that. It is the case that we believe that Turkey should not end up becoming a member of the European Union, but does not believe that it is right to interrupt negotiations with them now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112512	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112515	All right, so that means that the Conservative People's Party is in favour of the amendment that the Enhedslisten will be tabling to suspend accession negotiations until democratic rights are guaranteed, in other words, like that, Mr President. Bendt Bendtsen voted in favour in the European Parliament, where the Conservative Group, together with a majority in the European Parliament, voted in favour of a temporary suspension. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112540	No, that's wrong too. We are, as I said before, and now I think I have said it many times, not supporters of interrupting negotiations with Turkey now. That is what is in the Enhedslisten's proposal, so no, we do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112555	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead. So, was that a short remark? You've got to get in there in good time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112614	I'm sorry, but the case takes a slightly unexpected turn. That was the information that the Conservatives, which is also completely new to me, are opposed to Turkey's accession to the European Union, in other words, on principle. In this way, regardless of anything else, the Conservatives are against it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112632	Not that of a principle, but it is true that we do not believe that Turkey should be part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112638	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112640	What, then, is the reason why we do not want to interrupt the accession negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112646	It is that it will be seen as a very great provocation on the part of Turkey and we do not believe that we need that conflict with Turkey at the moment. I think I've said it many times. I can repeat it, and you may ask it again, but I've said it four to five times now, so are we not about to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112705	It is possible that there will be a need for a repetition. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112710	I would just like to ask what the justification is for not wanting Turkish EU membership in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112720	I would like to repeat that too, of course. It is, as I said in my speech, that we do not believe that Turkey is a European country, and that is why the starting point is not that it is natural to have Turkey in the European Union. At the same time, it is also very difficult to see that there are enough common features in Turkey's regime and way of acting that would make it a happy community. Turkey is not to be regarded as a well-functioning democracy. The things that are going on down there and the way the opposition is being treated are deeply, deeply dubious and simply not compatible with the way we other European democracies operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112801	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112803	I would like to know whether this is a new position, because, as far as I know, the EU started its accession negotiations with Turkey under the then VK government. So I just want to know how new that attitude is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112819	I dare not set a date for the new attitude and the development of the Conservatives' attitude towards Turkey's accession through the ages. I can only explain what our position is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112833	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208112845	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start by thanking the Danish Parliament for its consideration of our proposal. I should also like to express my regret at the fact that there has been no broad support for the proposal in the Folketing. After all, it is not a new position on the part of the Danish People's Party that we are opposed to Turkey's accession to the European Union. There we are for many different reasons. Turkey is not a European country; for years Turkey has been a country with very great challenges in terms of respect for basic rights and a long and wide range of other things. But we have taken note of the fact that the Enhedslisten has decided to table an amendment at the time of the debate in the Committee on European Affairs. I think I can say calmly that if Enhedslisten had not done so, then the Danish People's Party would have done so. It is of course interesting that there are some parties here in the Danish Parliament who are expressing one opinion in the European Parliament and apparently another here today in the Danish Parliament. Therefore, it is also reasonable to ask whether we should not look at the decision taken by the European Parliament on 24 November 2016 by an overwhelming majority to call on the Commission and the Member States to take steps to temporarily suspend the current accession negotiations with Turkey. The reason why it is also interesting to have that debate in the Folketing is, of course, that Denmark is a Member State of the European Union. After all, it is the Folketing that equips the Minister with mandates for how Denmark behaves in EU matters. It is not without significance that a majority in the Folketing does, whereas a resolution such as the one in the European Parliament, as Mr von der Vring has said, is not without meaning. Jan E. Jørgensen also pointed out so rightly, is ineffective. I still find it difficult to imagine when all the parties represented in the European Parliament and also here in the Folketing have voted in a way in the European Parliament that they will then vote in a different way in the Folketing for exactly the same proposal. That is why, of course, I also expect support for the amendment that is being tabled in the Committee on European Affairs. On 9 August 2016, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, and now I quote: "With the many different measures Turkey has taken, not least the latest when they intend to introduce the death penalty • and they have come closer to that now • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • He said so to Everything and went on to say: "Therefore, you have to stop the admission negotiations and even say that it is not just a break. We must remove Turkey's title as an EU candidate country. Anything else will be absurd with the measures they have taken. He was then, unfortunately, corrupted by Mr. Kristian Jensen, then Minister for Foreign Affairs. As we have mentioned here, Mrs Mette Bock, who also belongs to a government party, said on 18 July to Politiken: unfortunately, on her own initiative, Turkey has deprived itself of the opportunity to become a member of the European Union. It is inconceivable that a country with a government that puts the rule of law out of operation can be a member state. ▪ In the same newspaper, Mr. Søren Søndergaard also suspended the negotiations. The Enhedslisten lives well up to today. On August 14, Mr. Naser Khader saw that he smokingly disagrees with the government's unwillingness to criticise Turkey. It is then the government of which the Conservatives are members today, and Mr. Naser Khader in Jyllands-Posten called for the negotiations to be stopped: it is the whole package that makes Turkey no longer suitable for being a country to negotiate with accession to the EU. The country is not worthy of this. In the European Parliament, all the parties and movements represented by Denmark, the SF, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Conservatives, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the People's Movement against the EU have voted to stop the accession negotiations so far. I have to say that is a decision that I fully agree with, because it is absolutely essential to do something. Since 20 July 2016, over 45,000 military personnel, police officers, judges, governors and civil servants have either been suspended or arrested. 163 Generals it is 45 per cent. Turkey has had to evacuate the country's prisons in order to accommodate the many, many detainees. Thirty-eight thousand prisoners expect Turkey to release in order to find a place. On 28 September 2016, the Turkish Minister of Justice announced to Bekir Bozdag that 70,000 people had already been investigated at that time and 32,000 had been formally arrested. Moreover, Turkey has extended the number of days that can be detained without trial in Turkey from 4 to 30. According to Amnesty International, the detainees have been denied access to a lawyer. Some have been beaten, tortured, and others have not received food, water or necessary medicine. Many of them are, for obvious reasons, detained on an incredibly thin basis, suggesting that President Erdogan has just wanted to kill his critics or opponents in the shelter of this coup. Another example is the detention of the 14 members of the Kurdish HDP party, to which we have already referred. The Turkish Government has even made it clear that it is believed that the United States has co-responsibility or may have been directly involved in the attempted coup. Unfortunately, in the wake of this coup, the Turkish people have concentrated on President Erdogan against the ethnic minorities that exist in Turkey. We have among other things. the persecution of alevimuslims, which has become more violent. We have seen how to strike down people who drink alcohol and women who do not wear a head scarf, etc. etc. Turkey has also restricted access to freedom of expression on the Internet and is on the whole on the wild run from freedoms. The question is simply whether Turkey is still our allies at all. We have already seen this with the Lars Hedegaard case, where the person suspected of trying to kill Lars Hedegaard was extradited to the Islamic State and is now on an American list of the most wanted international terrorists. On 24 November, as you know, the European Parliament voted to temporarily suspend accession negotiations with Turkey. There were 479 Members of the European Parliament who voted in favour of this. President Erdogan didn't care about that decision because it couldn't be seen as anything but signal value. Now it is different with the Danish Parliament, so a similar resolution in the Danish Parliament, in which a majority of the Danish Parliaments instructs the government to announce that the negotiations with Turkey should be suspended temporarily, is important, because it informs one of the European countries that they can no longer at present support continued accession negotiations with Turkey. We very much hope that Parliament will support that amendment, and we expect it too, of course, because there should be a connection between what is said somewhere, namely in the European Parliament and what is said here in this high room.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208113550	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and it does not appear that more people have asked to speak. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208113613	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 December 2016. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questions put to the Commission by the honourable Member. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208113639	Thank you. Now, it is my claim that if any country other than the People's Republic of China were accused of the things that China is accused of, there would have been an international outcry. If any country other than China were accused of using political prisoners as a reserve for organs, it would not be long before the international community had acted. But China is in a special situation as the world's most populous nation, as a country whose economy is important to the whole world and with which many countries are extremely interested in being on good terms. Perhaps that is why the criticism of China's use of prisoners of conscience as a spare part store for organs has been so relative. The US Congress has adopted a criticism of Chinese practice, and the European Parliament has also voiced criticism of it. But in Denmark we have not had a debate until today on the organ harvest in China. Now, my political conviction is that we, as politicians, really have to interfere as little as possible in the doings and the barn of other countries, but there is a very crucial exception from this, and that is when it comes to the right of people to life. We have a clear obligation to resign there. One cannot close one's eyes to systematic killing of other people. One cannot look at it implicitly, while a regime, no matter how large and powerful, apparently exploits people, political prisoners, as a spare part store without their consent. I am aware that the Chinese Government states that the people who have been sentenced to death should allegedly have given their own undertaking that their organs were subsequently used to help other people. But I am not confident that a regime that keeps people locked up because of their political standing, their religious beliefs, and whatever else might occur to them, is in any case in a position to even care at least what doomed people think about what will happen to their organs after their death. For here one can speak of a dangerous view of man, namely that man does not exist as an individual and that the individual person has no value in himself; that man has no integrity or dignity, but that one can disrespectlessly pick organs from people who have been killed at the hands of the state. I believe that the debate we are going to have today is essential. The day when the regime in China falls and the day comes and when the crimes of the regime will be exposed, one will be able to go back to this debate in the Assembly hall and see who said what. Therefore, I look forward very much to hearing what the Foreign Minister can say about the fact that the Chinese state allegedly carries out the killing of prisoners of conscience, such as imprisoned members of the religious Falun Gong movement, whose organs then go to highly paying foreign and Chinese patients and how does the government intend to raise this issue with the Chinese Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208113943	Thank you. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208113949	It is asked about the government's position that the Chinese State is allegedly carrying out the killing of prisoners of conscience, including imprisoned members of the religious Falun Gong movement, for the purpose of forced organ transplantation and organ sales. Let me make it quite clear straight away that the government is clearly opposed to all forms of involuntary organ transplants and, of course, to the killing of prisoners of conscience wherever they may be. China has decided that all transplant organs with effect from 1 January 2015 shall come from voluntary donors. The use of forced organ transplants and organ sales has simply been banned. On the official Chinese side, it has been established that the decision has been implemented and that all organ transplants in China today are based on voluntary donations. A violation of applicable regulations and laws, including illegal organ transplantation and trade, is punishable under the Chinese Penal Code. According to the Director of China's National Organ Donation and Transplant Committee, steps are still being taken to further improve the Chinese organ donation system. This involves further training of doctors in organ transplant hospitals, improved transport of transplanted organs, and increased control of which hospitals carry out organ transplants and how the organs are acquired. Leading international organisations in the field of control such as the UN Health Organisation WHO, as well as independent recognised expert organisations such as the Transplantation Society, have expressed recognition of the efforts of the Chinese authorities over recent years. This applies in particular to the work to ensure that organ donations and organ transplants are carried out in accordance with international standards. At the same time, however, these organisations stress that in a country such as China it is quite difficult to move from a system which appears to have been based on organ transplants from executed prisoners to a system based on a hundred percent voluntary organ donation. This is particularly true at local level. Indeed, there is no consolidated information as to whether the decision to prohibit the use of involuntary organ transplantation has now been fully implemented throughout the country. Nor do we have information from the Chinese authorities which can clearly confirm or deny whether in some parts of the country there should be continued use of organs from prisoners of conscience or other forced organ transplants and organ sales. The human rights lawyer David Matas and the Falun Gong movement have compared the official figures of the Chinese authorities from organ transplants with figures collected by Matas and others themselves from Chinese hospitals. As these figures are significantly higher than the official Chinese statistics, among other things, assess. Matas and Falun Gong that involuntary organ transplants continue to take place outside the official system. Overall, however, there is no clear information in this area. This is partly due to the lack of independent supervision of whether prisoners have given their consent to donate organs, and partly to the secrecy of statistics on both the death penalty and organ transplants. This in fact makes it impossible to obtain a precise picture of where transplanted organs come from. It is also unclear whether an independent mechanism has been established to ensure that transplant organs are purchased with the consent of donors. After consultation with the Member States, the European Union has repeatedly expressed its concern about these matters. In the framework of the strategic partnership with China, the Government intends to continue to raise human rights issues with China through our bilateral dialogue. Experience shows that mutual respect and constructive dialogue produce the best results, and this is a line that the government will continue to maintain, including in this area. On the Danish side, we are also actively involved in EU cooperation to improve the human rights situation in China. The EU is constantly raising the issue of forced organ transplantation with China, including in the context of the annual EU-China human rights dialogue. During the human rights dialogue in 2014, the Chinese side informed about its decision that all organ transplants in China are now based on voluntary donations. The EU intends to raise the issue again during the forthcoming human rights dialogue. Denmark gives priority to this dialogue and participates as an observer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208114508	Thank you, Minister. And then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208114524	Thank you, Madam President, and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Well, I think it's a little splashy, I'll tell you that. What we are dealing with is organized killing of political opponents, religious opponents for one purpose: to use their organs for transplanting other people. It is probably the greatest breach one can imagine, of the rights of a human being, that one reduces man to a spare part store. What is happening in China is a flagrant violation of the rights of freedom, a flagrant breach of everything we must regard as common sense here in the Western world. I do not know if the Foreign Minister would say if it were in other countries around the world, for example. an African country or the like, that constructive dialogue was the way to convince that regime to stop killing its fellow citizens and using their organs for transplantation. Actually, I don't think so. I think this is actually the case because it is the People's Republic of China that is at issue. After all, there is no link between the number of transplants taking place in China and the number of donors available. Back in 2005, the then health minister, Huang Jiefu, and I hope that I say it fairly reasonably, my Chinese is not super fantastic to 95 percent. of the organs transplanted in China come from sentenced prisoners. This reiterated Huang in both 2008 and 2010, while according to the Washington Post in 2012, information from the Chinese Ministry of Health reported that 65 per cent. of the organs originated from prisoners from whom China has killed. By 2014 at the latest, Huang Jiefu indicated that this practice continued. Today it is estimated that between a 1⁄2 million and 2 million Chinese are detained in labor camps, and China has a world record in executions • 2,400 people are estimated to have been killed at least in 2014. There is a huge discrepancy between the information provided by the Chinese authorities themselves, as regards the number of donors, in relation to the number of organ transplants carried out. Between 2012 and 2013, 1,400 people were registered as donors, while in 2005 China transplanted 7,785 large organs from 2,766 so-called volunteers. That figure, 2,766 so-called volunteers, we find it very difficult to see fit a figure called 1,400 people who have signed up for two years. How would these 1,400 people all have come of days? Moreover, how could others do so without there still being an element of the use of prisoners of conscience? Among the volunteers mentioned here, there are also prisoners who, according to the Chinese authorities, voluntarily donate their organs before they are executed. But remember, it is in a country where cutting dead people is a cultural taboo. It's not something you do in China. But can we even rely on figures coming from a dictatorship such as the Chinese one? Probably not. Independent experts have through trawled decentralised statements from Chinese hospitals, interrogated eyewitnesses, etc., and they reach quite different high figures. American journalist Ethan Gutmann arrives at the conclusion that 65,000 prisoners, mainly persons belonging to the Falun Gong movement, have been killed in the period 2000-2008 for the purpose of harvesting their organs. And the fact that Falun Gong members are the main source of the organs is supported by the fact that many of the people who are otherwise executed in China as a result of common crime are often poor, a not insignificant part of which is supposed to be carriers of hepatitis and whose organs cannot therefore be used for organ transplantation. Moreover, people who have escaped the Chinese labor camps report how they have had blood tests for no reason. At the same time, China has one of the shortest waiting times in the world to receive organs. It is in a few months' time when Western countries can be expected to wait years before a transplant can be carried out and it is in a country largely without a database of potential organ donors. In the view of the Danish People's Party, there are both historical and current indications that systematic killing of prisoners of conscience, whose organs can be used for donation, takes place in China. I'm here today with a letter from Zaiqun Wei. She is married to a Danish man and has lived in Denmark for 12 years. Her siblings, Zaihui Wei and Zaixiu Wei, are in custody today in China. The letter dates back to August, and at that time they had been in prison for 14 months. They're still sitting there, so now they've been in custody for 18 months. And they're in prison for practicing Falun Gong. They are denied visits by family members. They were arrested on May 27, 2015, when over 20 Chinese police officers broke into their homes, confiscated books on Falun Dafa, computers, copiers, electronic equipment and cash. And they've been forced to give blood samples and have their bodies examined. And today Zaiqun Wei sits here in Denmark, fearing that her siblings will be killed and the organ harvest. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Danish People's Party, I should therefore like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the European Parliament, the US Congress and a number of other parliaments have criticised the Chinese authorities for the illegal organ harvest. The Danish Parliament calls for cooperation between Chinese and Danish health institutions to be suspended until China has implemented transparent and credible organ transplantation practices. The Folketing demands that China immediately stop the use of organs from persons who have not freely registered as organ donors. At the same time, the Folketing calls on China to respect its people's fundamental human rights and to immediately stop the persecution of minority groups, including Falun Gong, Tibetans, Christians and Uighurs. Finally, Parliament calls on China to release immediately all political prisoners of conscience. • V 21).
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115154	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115158	It is difficult to express precisely the inhumanity, the unethicalness, the inadmissibility, the degree of antipathy that must be associated with the organ harvest. In order to do so in relative terms, I would like to hear from the rapporteur how he would assess it in relative terms, for example. to imagine shooting refugees in a boat, unarmed on a sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115240	I have to say that it does not exactly concern the subject, but I will leave it to the rapporteur to decide whether to reply to it; it falls outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115249	I'd like to compare this to something. If I have to compare it to anything, it is the holocaust; then it is the persecution that occurred under Nazism, of homosexuals, of Jews, of dissidents, of others. That's a fair comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115310	Did Mr. Nick Hækkerup any more comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115313	Firstly, I do not agree that this falls outside the scope of the directive because it is simply a question of relativising what is at the heart and extent of the discussion that we have, so I do not agree with that and, secondly, the rapporteur himself, in his first presentation, made a relatively detailed statement that we should interfere when it comes to the life and integrity of people. And that is why the question is relevant: what about people's lives and integrity when compared to a situation where people, for example, are being treated differently? fire unarmed men, women and children in refugee boats?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115344	I would point out to the rapporteur that there is no debate with the President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115349	Sir. Nick Hækkerup has probably seen what I have said today, and I have never at any time advocated shooting at unarmed children; it could never occur to me. But I'm just saying that when this one day is exposed and it is exposed one day, because a regime like that of Chinese cannot sit forever, it will be revealed what has been done in China; what abhorrence to ordinary people you have had, to people who have peacefully practiced their religion, their beliefs. I think that is quite, quite awful, and I actually miss words. Even though I have been professionally involved in history as a historian, I have never actually been able to do anything as disgusting as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208115443	Thank you. I have to say that the proposal for adoption which has just been put forward by the rapporteur is part of the further negotiations. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130000	The sitting is resumed. The next speaker in the series of rapporteurs is Mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130012	Organ transplantation must, of course, be based on voluntary donors. The organ harvest, which is a little more dramatic, is not only unethical and inhumane and unacceptable and unsympathetic, it is also, of course, contrary to human rights and, at least, if it takes place in Denmark, prohibited and punishable. That is what we must understand, including in China. Nevertheless, there is a suspicion that involuntary organ donation or organ harvesting is taking place in China. Those who provide the organs are supposedly prisoners of conscience. The other relevant query debate we have today, handicapped people, precisely because words such as suspicion and supposedly sneak in it might be nice to know exactly and certainly. That is why, when you are a member of parliament, you must, of course, turn to the Foreign Minister and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a clear answer to the question: is there a forced organ transplant in China or not? In this way, the Foreign Minister has also answered that we can discuss whether it is in a firm way by saying: "There is no consolidated information on whether China's decision to discontinue the use of involuntary organ transplants is now fully implemented throughout the country. It is then supplemented by: • A number of interest groups believe, however, that involuntary organ transplants continue to take place outside the official system. This is what the Foreign Minister described a little earlier, before our break, as the overall lack of clear information in this area. When we find ourselves in this situation, it gives us reason to conclude that the way forward in this issue is to maintain the critical dialogue, in which issues of respect for human rights are continuously addressed with the Chinese Government both bilaterally and in the EU-China dialogue, and to oblige the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to continue to assess whether involuntary organ transplantation is taking place. I have a proposal for adoption because I am the first to come on from the voting parties that I will read out. It has the support of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF and reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses its clear disapproval of all forms of forced organ transplantation and calls on the government to counteract this practice wherever it takes place. The Danish Parliament takes note of China's decision on pr. To stop the use of involuntary organ transplants from executed prisoners of death on 1 January 2015. The Folketing urges the government to continue to follow developments in this area, including assessments of involuntary organ transplantation in China. The Folketing attaches great importance to the strategic partnership with China, including close cooperation and equal dialogue based on mutual respect. The Danish Parliament and the Government agree on the priorities for progress in the field of human rights in China and that human rights are constantly being taken up with the Chinese Government both bilaterally and in the EU-China dialogue. V 22). Then I should just like to point out that the SF, which cannot be here at the moment, is in favour of the adoption before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130356	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations, and since the rapporteur has just read out the proposal, I shall not do so. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130416	Thank you. I do not think that the rapporteur spoke so much to China in relation to the undeniable use of bodies from executed prisoners, which have taken place in the years preceding, and which the Chinese Deputy Minister for Health, Huang Jiefu, has also confirmed on several occasions. So we could actually ask ourselves whether the rapporteur really thinks that this is a problem with regard to what has at least been done in China with a hundred per cent certainty. The second question I would really like to ask is whether the rapporteur is aware of the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in 2013 No. 2,981 is the name where you are called, among other things. I would like to see an independent investigation into these matters, that is to say an independent inquiry into them. I think that would be a good idea too. However, I understand that it is not included in the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130527	I didn't relate to the historic killings. What I and I think it is the questioner himself who has put the question is related to what is happening at the moment, not the historical description. The wording of the question is: what is the government's view that the Chinese state is allegedly carrying out the killing of prisoners of conscience, such as imprisoned members of the religious Falun Gong movement, whose organs then etc. etc.? So I was just dealing with what was today's topic when I answered the question, i.e. when I explained how we would think this should be handled. The second part of the question, which I think is also relevant, concerns the problem which I outlined in my reply and which the questioner himself has also stated in the text, namely that there are supposedly organ harvests. To this I would say that this is part of the decision that is being taken to include the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the assessments of whether it takes place or not. Because, as I said in my speech, it would be really, really nice to have certain information about what the situation is like here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130639	It sounds to me as if the rapporteur is questioning it, in other words as though the rapporteur is actually suffering from the idea that it did not happen. And I would just like to say this to the rapporteur and ask the question: is it really true that the rapporteur doubts that there is or has been the killing of prisoners of conscience in Chinese prisons in order to transplant the organs from these prisoners to Chinese as well as foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130715	But all the time that China has recognized that organs from sentenced prisoners have been used for organ transplantation, there is nothing to doubt. And why should I even question that? What I'm dealing with is what kind of sources there are now. It has to be said that we are in the somewhat annoying situation, as I also said, that today's debate on the question of disability is something of the fact that we must always use words as suspects, supposedly etc., which the questioner who has formulated the question has also written himself by introducing: what is the attitude of the government towards the alleged murder of prisoners of conscience by the Chinese state?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130758	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130802	I would like to ask the rapporteur: since there are these doubts in relation to reports which say that this organ transplant or other things is going on, what does the rapporteur think of municipalities in Denmark waiting to come to China to get some cooperation agreements? So, bearing in mind that we are talking about a dictatorship, does the rapporteur think that it is a good idea for Danish municipalities to move to China when we have such a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130832	The essence of this issue is, in fact, how to deal with states that you do not like, which have behaviour that you do not like, which do things that you do not like, and there are basically two ways to go. There is the way to say that we will have no relations for the future: we will stop all trade, we will stop all relations, we will put them on ice, we will have nothing with them will do. Then there is another way to go, which is to say: do we not think that our ability to influence relations is greatest if we maintain a critical dialogue and if we continue to criticise, every time we have the opportunity to do so, multilaterally, bilaterally, the facts that may be critical, and raise the debates? And I have no doubt that I have no doubt that the right way to go is to maintain a critical dialogue. There may be differences of opinion on this, but experience is, and my own experience as a minister is therefore also that it matters when you are out and meet with your counterparts to address the problems that exist. It is not certain that it changes things with a fingertips, but it matters that the issues are being raised all the time. It is much, much stronger than a very strong vote here in the Parliamentary Assembly without much impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208130946	In other words, it should be understood that the rapporteur believes that when all these municipalities are in China, they should actually point out to the rulers these issues and say that they might well be a problem instead of not discussing it at all, but only discussing it with the aim of getting some sort of trade or other thing. I would also like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think it would be a good idea for the municipalities which have these partnership agreements with China to perhaps start talking about human rights with China, so that it is not only the positive that comes out from the municipalities, but that the municipalities may also start discussing and engaging in a dialogue that means that there are some things going on that violate human rights, among other things. Something like what we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131033	I think that Denmark should be fully aware of having a critical dialogue with all the states in which we find there are issues that need to be criticised. I think there is absolutely no denying that there are human rights issues in China which are worthy of criticism. And I believe that we must maintain the critical dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131116	Thank you. It is not Denmark's only liberal party, but Denmark's oldest liberal party, Denmark's largest liberal party and a good liberal party together with other good liberal parties. Thank you for the floor. After the a little cheerful start and it is certainly not a cheerful topic, we are going to talk about • I would like to start again, for the second time today, and I promise that it will not become a habit, praise the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate, for involuntary organ transplantation, as we call it in the ministerial language, can only be taken away from the most severe. And the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament forbid me to say what I would have said if it were a forum other than here to execute prisoners in order to recycle their organs is nothing short of a cruel practice. There can be no more than a nagging suspicion that the number of people sentenced to death may be as determined by the need for organs as by the seriousness of the crime committed by the person concerned. It is a terrible and, unfortunately, economically advantageous system, which reflects a view of people, thousands of kilometres, even light years, from ours. Of course, political opponents, government critics, vulnerable minorities should not be treated like animals that can simply be slaughtered and sold to the highest bidder. There can be no disagreement about that. It is therefore positive that the Chinese Government has moved in the right direction on this issue. Where, in the past, we would not even recognise that there was a problem and simply swept it away, we have acted and new legislation has been introduced. Forced organ transplantation was banned last year and it is maintained that organ transplantation should take place on the basis of voluntaryness. It is reported that there has been increased control in Chinese hospitals and that the Chinese authorities have become more thorough in investigating where and who bodies come from. That does not mean, of course, that you are in the finish line. As with so many other black markets, even if something is being done illegally, it is not the case that demand just disappears like dew for the sun. It is unrealistic to imagine that a country in which most of the transplanted organs appear to have come from executed prisoners will be able to provide a similar number of voluntary donations in a short time. China is therefore faced with a far cool move in relation to these challenges. We must, of course, raise the issue of human rights through our bilateral dialogue with China. We must seek constructive and respectful dialogue that can help to keep the Chinese on the right track. We also need the channels that we know work. And the European Union, the European Union, plays a key role here, as the issue of forced organ transplantation is constantly being raised by the European Union vis-à-vis China. If we really care and want to make a difference in this area, this is where we have to take action. The European Union has a pondus, the European Union has a weight that makes you listen to. After all, it makes a difference whether it is us 5 million Danes, how good and talented we think we are, who raise the voice, or whether it is 500 million Europeans who do the same. So if the issue of China's treatment of human rights with regard to organ transplantation, for example, is something that concerns you, and I understand that it does, it also concerns me, yes, then I would call for a commitment and a wholehearted commitment to the debate on how we can strengthen the European Union and the dialogue-based solutions. The best solution must be to send out an overall, strong and clear signal that, of course, people cannot be regarded as bodies that can only be sold to the highest bidder.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131545	I would like to put a question to the rapporteur, and that is: what does the rapporteur think of many municipalities having a cooperation agreement with China, in other words running around and looking for some sort of cooperation, and what does the rapporteur think of there being no critical dialogue in relation to when they are down in China?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131605	It is not Danish municipalities that conduct foreign policy. First of all, it is the government, and then it is the Folketing. Then, of course, you can have a discussion about whether the municipalities should boycott countries that we are not so enthusiastic about for one reason or another. I think it would be a slippery slope to move on, which could be quite difficult. When the municipalities have not been informed that this is something they would rather not see, I see no reason to criticise municipalities for going on a trip to China. I can say that my own municipality, Frederiksberg, where I sit in the municipal council, has not been in China and we have no plans to go to China.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131651	Then I should like to interpret the rapporteur's answer in this way: if I am now, for example. is a mayor from a left-wing municipality who calls the rapporteur and says that we have cooperation with a Chinese province, and we think it is all fantastic, then the rapporteur will also say to the mayor concerned: yes, yes, but you must also realise that it is not all rosy, and perhaps you should talk about a dictatorship having its positive side, but it also has its negative side? Is it true that this is what the rapporteur would say to the mayor in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131725	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131727	No, I would never say to a mayor from either the Left or any other party that there are positive sides to a dictatorship. A dictatorship is bad, no doubt, in every way. I see nothing positive about a dictatorship. Therefore, something positive can be seen in China as a great country, which has had fantastic economic growth with a large, handsome, old culture that stretches back thousands of years. We can give a positive opinion on China and also on all the progress that is being made, including in the area of human rights, without giving a favourable opinion on dictatorship. I would like China to have a democratic form of government. That'd be the best part.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131809	The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131812	I also think that a lot of positive things can be said about Chinese culture, and fortunately we also see Chinese culture unfolding in a free and democratic society in Taiwan, and I also hope that this will one day be the case at Fastlandskina. I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his speech. In fact, I think it was different from Mr. Nick Hækkerup's speech, and I do accept that, I really do, because I think that this matter is far too serious not to give a full-scale criticism of what is happening in China. My first question is really about what is in the proposal for adoption that we, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, have put forward, which means that the Left cannot support that proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131903	I cannot say exactly what a sentence is or what a word we have a particular objection to. Overall, we think that the text we have produced is better. Then it's not that much anymore. But another time you are very welcome to come up for coffee, so it could be that we could make a joint proposal for adoption, who knows.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208131927	I sent the first draft around yesterday, I didn't hear much about it, but let it go. The second question I would like to put to the rapporteur is, in fact, the question of when you can trust some information you get. As a starting point, I will always be a little more reluctant to have confidence in information coming from a dictatorship, i.e. if Hafez al-Assad says something, or if Bashar is now called, it was his father's name, Hafez, I will probably be a little more inclined to think whether that is true, and I understand that there is a great deal of emphasis on that from Mr Hafez. Jan E. Jørgensen's side, that there is officially this decision not to use human organs that have been executed. How much importance does the rapporteur really attach to this, bearing in mind that we are not dealing with a democratic regime?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132024	After all, China is also a country in which the death penalty for corruption and abuse of power is imposed, and there are also things happening in China that the Chinese authorities do not approve of, but which are happening and which are trying to get rid of. So I don't think anyone is going to say that this is not still happening, but it can happen so well, despite the fact that the Chinese authorities are doing what they can to stop it. It goes without saying that in a country without a free press there will be information coming out that is not in line with the truth because you do not have a free and critical press to examine the validity of the information you receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132103	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132108	Thank you. When I signed on for a brief comment, it was because I was aware that the rapporteur of the Left said that a strong signal should be sent to China. I very much agree with that, but I have to say that when I read this proposal for adoption, which has come from the government, I think that a great deal of the adoption smells like a little apologizing for making a criticism. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Left believes that the adoption which Parliament is being proposed tomorrow sends a strong signal to the Chinese regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132146	Yeah, I mean, you send a strong signal. Just as there is a difference between how to speak over a Friday beer and how to speak on the parliamentary platform, there is also a third way of speaking on the floors of diplomacy, and there you understand very well what the text of the resolution says. I have no doubt about that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132209	Fortunately, we are now adopting quite a few things in the field of foreign policy here in the Folketing, because we are part of the world and we must be vigilant about the human rights that I believe the vast majority of us are in favour of. It has to be said that the text that is here is considerably weaker than some of the other texts we have adopted, although they are quite diplomatic and have been through the machine over in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I just want to ask whether the Left seriously believes that this is a strong enough signal to send to the Chinese regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132248	Yes, otherwise we would not have written that text of adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132312	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having called this debate. It is a very important debate, and it is not every day that we see the Danish People's Party taking the initiative on what could be described as international solidarity, and certainly not international solidarity with prisoners. However, I would like to pay tribute to this and I hope that this commitment will spread to other parts of the world where solidarity and pressure are needed to ensure fundamental human rights. Because in this case too there is a need to stress that there is no doubt that the brutal killings of political prisoners of conscience in Chinese prisons to provide organs are clear violations of fundamental human rights which should be clearly condemned. That is why today's debate is so important. The repression of the opposition in China is very brutal. Dissidents who are imprisoned, abused and killed suffer. In recent years, repression has even begun to spread to areas where it was not before, for example to Hong Kong. Here the democracy movement in the city under massive pressure is contrary to the agreements made when Hong Kong became part of China. Similarly, we see that the country's minorities are of course the Tibetans, but also the predominantly Muslim Uighur population, as well as the consequences of the Falun Gong movement and other groups are being grossly suppressed. This repression is totally unacceptable, but the situation is not going to be any less bad by the circumstances that the prisoners of conscience are actually experiencing. Thousands of prisoners are executed annually in China. This brutal form of punishment has been so institutionalised that everything points to, as has also been clearly stated in today's debate, that large parts of China's organs for organ transplantation actually originate from executed prisoners. In this country without democracy, without human rights, without independent courts and without transparency in decision-making processes, it is trying to keep these crimes hidden from the people. That is why it is so important that we from Denmark and Europe put pressure on China that we demand an end to the abuses and an end to the repression. There is no doubt that the Danish economy right now has big dollar signs in their eyes when they think of China, and the Chinese regime is pursuing an increasingly aggressive policy towards critics both at home and abroad. This can, of course, make it difficult to take the courage to reject the repression, and it is actually a little thought-provoking that, when China was a one-party dictatorship without a market economy, the queue of critics of the Chinese regime in this Parliament was long. That was for good reason. We should never remain silent about a one-party dictatorship, regardless of the country in which that dictatorship is located. But now it is a one-party dictatorship with a market economy and, unfortunately, the queue for clear criticism is considerably smaller. I think it's dangerous if we only think with the wallet. In this way, the forces in China that want a democratic direction are being abandoned. We need those powers to strengthen. If there is to be stability and peace in China in the long term and, above all, peace with its neighbouring countries, there needs to be a democratisation which needs to be broken up with the oppressive and corrupt Communist Party currently in power. That is why I must also say that I am sorry that we cannot get a clearer decision. The vote, which seems to have reached a majority tomorrow, is, in my opinion, too vague. I do not think we should have a balance in relation to human rights. We must defend human rights, including for the people of China. At the same time, I think it is important to emphasise that we actually have a situation in which all parties are critical of the organ harvest in China. I know that the Chinese opposition, the political prisoners and the minorities of the country will make that clear, and I hope that they will take full note of the Chinese Embassy so that it can also reach the regime in Beijing. I would have liked to have seen the criticism clearer, but fortunately we have a criticism in the Folketing, and that is a place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132832	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208132845	What is the purpose of Danish foreign policy? That is a good question to ask before addressing question No. F 9. Is the purpose of foreign policy to serve the interests of present-day Danish citizens in the best possible way, or is the aim to make value-policy announcements, perhaps more for domestic policy purposes, regardless of how bad these markings may serve the interests of present-day Danish citizens? I can easily identify with the need for value-policy markings. Anything else would be weird. It's an activity I'm passionate about. In fact, it is also something I have lived on, which has paid rent and other necessities for many years. Nevertheless, I have to say that the purpose of Denmark's foreign policy should be to serve the interests of current Danish citizens in the best way possible. If you keep that in mind, the conclusion can only be that the thinking behind the proposal for adoption put forward by the Danish People's Party, which is supported by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, should not be made a reality, on the contrary. If the adoption of the minority as a result of some supernatural event became a reality, it would seriously harm the interests of Danish citizens, and at the same time it would probably do no good at all in China. As we are in the hypothetical, I will not speculate exactly how violent it would harm Danish citizens, but it would be serious. The Folketing and the Danish government should, of course, distance themselves from all forms of forced organ transplantation, but the Folketing should also note that since 1 January 2015 China has decided to stop the use of organ transplants from executed prisoners of death. The reasons for this should also be noted, because reaching the decision of the Chinese Government, which we welcome, has undoubtedly been helped by an ongoing dialogue on human rights, which exists both bilaterally between Denmark and China and in the EU's dialogue with China. That is why I think that the adoption which it envisages there being a majority is quite right in terms of serving Denmark's interests, and I am pleased that so many parties have been able to reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133132	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. It's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133140	I must say, I am deeply disappointed in Mr. Mr Dahl's speech as rapporteur. Actually, I've seen Mr. Keating. Henrik Dahl as a person who has principles, based on the authorship which Mr. Henrik Dahl has, but I have to say that this is obviously not the case. I must conclude more that China has no greater friend in the Folketing than Mr. Henrik Dahl. That's so disappointing. Sir. It seems that Henrik Dahl attaches great importance to the fact that the Chinese authorities have said that it is per year. On 1 January 2015, bodies from executed prisoners were no longer used. May I do, sir? Henrik Dahl noted the following: In 2015, i.e. last year, there were 2,766 people who, in quotation marks, donated organs to other people. During the period 2012-2013, 1,400 people were registered as organ donors in China. How do the two figures work together, I would ask Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133249	Foreign policy is carried out by means of an instrument called diplomacy. It is, of course, necessary to stay within the framework of diplomacy. I think you could populate a small station town with politicians who have jumped up like lions and fallen as diplomats. It's just something that happens sometimes. What the proposal for adoption envisages is, of course, to condemn forced organ transplantation, but the instrument to address this issue, if it can be verified, is very, very difficult to obtain secure information, and I ask for understanding for this, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also explained this and the way to air his concerns are the existing instruments of critical dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133340	Yes, but sir. Henrik Dahl must, of course, relate to the fact that after the time when Mr. Henrik Dahl says that the Chinese authorities have stopped using organs of doomed prisoners, 2,766 transplants have been performed. In two years, there were 2,400 people registered in China's organ donor register. In previous years it has been countable for hundreds. What's the probability that so many of these people are dead so you could actually generate organs from 2,766 people? I can figure it out for Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl says it's microscopicly small. This number could be obtained if you're still using the organs of doomed prisoners.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133439	Firstly, it is therefore a question of what is in Denmark's interest and, secondly, of how we can make our cases more effective. It is in no way in Denmark's interest to make great declaratory anti-Chinese speeches, in other words against the People's Republic of China. That would be completely counterproductive. And that's why I'm against it. The probability that something sensible will come out of standing in the Folketing and holding fire speeches is less than the probability, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is talking about. The way forward is the instruments we have. That's what's working.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133530	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133535	Thank you. Over the years, I have been extremely positive about the cooperation that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance have had, for example, on the defence of fundamental freedoms and human rights. That is why I have to say that I am somewhat surprised when the rapporteur stands on the floor today and says that it should be anti-Chinese to criticise human rights violations. So, I would say that just as someone who cares about the welfare and well-being of the Chinese and the conditions in the beautiful country, I should criticise the violent attacks that are taking place. That even sounds like Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl, that the proposal made by Enhedslisten, Alternativet og DF, and can harm the citizens of Denmark. This is serious. How could this harm the citizens of Denmark, and precisely why?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133636	The last one first. Diplomatic crises are of no benefit to anyone and, above all, they are of no benefit to Denmark. There has been a diplomatic crisis with India. In fact, it has not been much of a benefit to anything. The second point I want to make is that I agree that these issues are very important, but from the point of view of efficiency the existing instruments, the critical dialogue, are more effective than anything else. Hard complaints have no effect. They warm the heart, but they have no effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133723	Thank you. So what threatens the Danes is a diplomatic crisis with China and the Chinese regime. Is that something the rapporteur knows? Is this something that the rapporteur has been informed of by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or is it just something that the rapporteur claims here from Parliament's platform? So, it is quite important when we vote tomorrow whether it is the case that there is clear evidence that there will be a diplomatic crisis if the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Danish People's Party were to be adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133759	It is an assumption that I am assuming that I have been dealing with the issue for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208133813	Thank you, sir. President. The alternative condemns any involuntary transplantation of organs. This is true whether it happens in China or elsewhere in the world. An extremely high number of involuntary transplants has been documented in China. The official figures for voluntary organ donation are not consistent with the high number of transplants that are being carried out in reality. It is nasty to even use prisoners of conscience and sentenced to death as a storehouse for organs. This practice is unprecedented and must, of course, be stopped. It is positive that China has taken the initiative for a law to prevent involuntary organ transplants, and I am convinced that diplomatic pressure from, among others. The European Union has had a positive effect. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the implementation of this law is going as planned, as there is still evidence of involuntary transplants in China. We therefore recommend following up this work by putting further pressure on China through our diplomatic channels, both from Denmark and through the European Union. We also support the resolution of the European Parliament of September 2016 recommending an independent investigation into the continued organ harvest in the People's Republic of China. We also call, of course, for all prisoners of conscience to be released. I note that there is no evidence that Danes have gone to China to have organ transplants from involuntary donors, and I hope that the lack of documentation indicates that this does not happen. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister what tools he will use to ensure that Danes do not take advantage of organ transplantation from involuntary donors. I would also like to hear from the Minister whether he would support the wish of the European Parliament to investigate the matter independently.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134010	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no short markings, and then it's sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134021	Over the last few weeks and months, we in the Danish Parliament have had a series of debates, sometimes in the form of motions for resolutions and other times in the form of questions which have dealt in depth with the human rights situation in other countries. Today alone we have had a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party on Turkey's accession to the European Union on the basis of among others. the human rights situation, and now China. There is a thread going through those debates, and I would like to start by saying that on the part of the Radicals we welcome these debates and we believe that it is of great importance for our democracy to continuously send out the signals that it is in itself to stand guard over human rights as a theme. On the other hand, we have infinitely little desire to participate in the little informal competition that seems to be creeping into the Folketing, about who can then shout at the very highest about the atrocities that are obviously being committed in incredibly many countries. It is as if some of these debates have developed into a battleground about who in the clearest language can distance himself from the atrocities, more than it is about how we can actually try to put an end to the same atrocities. The same applies to this debate on illegal or involuntary organ transplantation in China. Because it is hardly possible to think of anything more disgusting and terrible than the idea of having a forced organ transplant on any human being. We do not know exactly what extent it is in China. We know that China's own government has formally distanced itself. There are several indications that it has not stopped the whole activity, and no one should be in any doubt that any kind of involuntary organ transplant is something that the Radical Left deeply rejects. That is why we also feel obliged to have a serious discussion on how we can most effectively try to put an end to all sorts of other human rights violations in all sorts of other states. And it is not about to take part in a shouting contest, and I would like to make three reasons for that. The first is that if Denmark is to try to influence some of these countries that are systematically violating human rights, then it is my clear conviction that the small voice that Denmark may have and there is no reason to have any illusions, because it is a relatively modest weight that we cast into the Chamber we will use best if we try to engage in a critical dialogue with that state than by standing here in the Chamber shouting loudly. Or by trying to get this into an EU agenda, so it is the European Union that is talking with a heaviness and a weight that can be heard, even when it is large states that we are talking about. There is something ironic about the fact that some of the parties most eager to take these debates are, at the same time, those who do not want cooperation in the European Union in exactly the same areas. This leads me to the second reason why we do not want to take part in the shouting competition. And it is that if Denmark is going to work to get some of these questions raised, for example. In a European context, and I will certainly not rule that out, I believe that there is a greater chance of success if we try to enter into a dialogue with the other European countries before we establish a national Danish position. First, we need to signal a direction, and so do we with the adoption that we are a majority agreed on today, and then we have to go down and try to find allies for it. So if it is the substance that you are interested in, that is to say that you are actually interested in dealing with the problem. That brings me to the third point, and that is that sometimes I cannot say quite free from thinking that for some parties it is like a higher and more important purpose to profil in a Danish public context than it is perhaps actually to deliver a serious effort to tackle these problems. The Radical Left does not want to expose itself to this suspicion, and that is why we do not want to enter into competition either. We want to do exactly what I think we are doing in the adoption, which I hope will be a majority for tomorrow, in which there is clear and unequivocal opposition from the atrocities that may be committed, putting a clear pressure of expectation, in this case on the Chinese Government, and at the same time making it possible to continue both a critical dialogue bilaterally and also through the European Union, in order to try to achieve what I really believe all the parties in this House share, namely to try to get rid of it completely. For this reason, we support the adoption which was read out by the governing parties, and for this reason we cannot support the other. Finally, on today's debate, let me say that the only thing that I really think is pleasing when we have such a serious discussion as today is that the Danish People's Party, at least in this area, is now unequivocally committed to human rights and believes that it is essential to stand guard over them. And, of course, I expect that to happen when it comes to boat refugees in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134607	Of course, one can always wonder why Mr. Martin Lidegaard uses a debate like this about the killing of thousands of people, tens of thousands of people, to give his little perfid thoughts about what the motivation of the proposers could be. It surprises me, and I think it will also surprise the great world outside that you do not take it more seriously than you do as such. But I understand that the radical idea of kingship is something about the fact that you get farther by whispering than by shouting. So I would like to ask Mr. Martin Lidegaard, what he thinks of the 114th Congress Resolution no. 343, and I understand if Mr. Martin Lidegaard is not just familiar with it. However, I can say that no whispering words are used to condemn what is happening in China, but it condemns, demands and demands from the US Congress that China act in this area. Is the U.S. Congress wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134712	I do not think anyone is reading the proposal for adoption that will hopefully be adopted tomorrow, there is any doubt as to what the Danish Parliament is calling on the Chinese Government to do, and I do not think it is a whisper. I believe that there is a clear stand against all involuntary organ donation and a clear expectation to the Chinese Government that it is working for its own decision to abolish the nasty practice. So that is not what this is all about, and it is quite clear, as is the proposal for adoption to which the rapporteur refers, and that is why I do not understand why we want to escalate language further. Because it has to be said that whatever has already been adopted, the whole starting point for today's debate is that there is a reasonable suspicion that it has not yet been resolved. So apparently there must also be other methods than just sitting and adopting a piece of paper in the parliaments. There must also be direct engagement and direct critical dialogue; words are not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134814	Yes, but I really think that it is when many, including myself, are steeped in the proposal for adoption, such as the one we have before us. The Radical Left is behind it, so it is about linking the terrible violations of freedoms that are taking place in China with the following sentence, and now I quote from the proposal for adoption: "The Parliament attaches great importance to the strategic partnership with China, including close cooperation and equal dialogue based on mutual respect'. It sounds very strange in a context where it is about a country killing its own citizens. It does, and I think it will do for a lot of people. Why is there a need to emphasise the great respect for a regime which has no popular mandate, which has no democratic mandate, whatsoever?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208134904	One might think that it is best to promote human rights and changes in countries such as China, Turkey, Iran and Russia, and I could mention a whole series of other examples, by putting pressure on them and at the same time having a critical dialogue. It is an old discussion and it applies to everyone. There are, of course, different types of diplomatic tools in relation to different states, but what is really the implicit question for Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is, of course, whether you should completely drop the critical dialogue and just stand with a megaphone and shout. My answer is that I think it is best to do both, but not least the latter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135000	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135012	Communist China is not only the world's largest country but also among those countries in the world where the most human rights violations take place. The economic liberalisation of recent decades has only benefited most Chinese to a limited extent. According to Amnesty International and other human rights organisations, there are many human rights problems in China, among others. the death penalty and hence the discussion on organ theft, forced labour, detention under torture, violation of freedom of expression and the press and violation of religious freedom. Of course, involuntary organ donation must be condemned and condemned loudly, however it may be, because it violates our fundamental freedoms. We must, as a democracy and as democrats, be involved in the promotion of fundamental freedoms, and that is why we must use our diplomatic relations, in line with the Foreign Minister's speech, to criticise violations of freedoms wherever they occur. For the starting point must always be that a person can decide on his own life, body and sexuality, marriage, future and also on his own body organs. This must apply globally, and also when you are on death row in China. China has had a terrible practice of organ harvesting among prisoners on death row. It goes without saying that it is deeply reprehensible and must be condemned that a state chooses to forcibly donate the inmate's organs. Since 1 January 2015, China has said that there is no involuntary organ transplantation and transplanting without consent has been banned. This is good because it means that people who commit forced transplants must and can be punished, but we must, of course, monitor compliance with the ban on involuntary organ donation. On the whole, it is clear that in all areas it is inappropriate for a State to feel that it has at its disposal which persons should have which bodies. To mention just one problem, according to The Economist, there have been examples that the timing of executions has had to meet the demand for organs. Imagine that there suddenly arises a need for more organs, and that therefore one must consider executing more of those who otherwise should have just had a severe punishment. It is totally unacceptable that a state should actively redistribute organs between citizens without their consent. The organ harvest shows that China has problems with freedoms, yes, the Chinese state has basically had a problem with the value of every human being and that every human being has the right to his own body. We in the free world know that you don't lose the right to your own body just because you're on death row. That is why we must also be the ones who are shouting the loudest in terms of fundamental freedoms, and we must fight for them globally, and we must do so, among other things. We must do so by literally taking the critical dialogue when we meet these regimes in meetings. We must condemn the violation of them, and we must criticise if a country systematically develops a practice that violates its citizens. Preaching freedoms in the world is a condition for democracies, as I have said, and we must continue to do so. It is vitally important to protect people from state abuse. That is why I am also pleased that the Foreign Minister intends to use his diplomatic position to raise the issue of human rights when he visits those countries that have problems in complying with human rights, because we must not respect cultures, religions and states that oppress freedoms. We must not respect cultures, religions and states that suppress the right to decide on their own life, body and sexuality, marriage and future, and that is why wherever we know it is going on we must be highly critical. So I trust our Foreign Minister and that when he meets with these regimes he speaks in capital letters and takes the critical dialogue very, very literally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135521	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135525	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would really like to know how much value Mr. Naser Khader attaches it to the fact that such a decision has been taken in China. For Mr. Naser Khader knows quite a lot about dictatorships, particularly in the Middle East, and political decisions are certainly also being taken, and some of them are certainly also on the verge of vexation, which is why I would really like to know how much value Mr. Khader has. Naser Khader attaches such a decision to the Chinese regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135603	After all, it is a terrible decision to steal your citizens' organs, citizens who are doomed. That cannot be condemned enough. At the same time, they say that we must stop it, that we must do something about it, and that is why they themselves have introduced a law that says that it must not be allowed in future. And that is where I say that it is our job to keep track of compliance with the law, and at the same time, when we meet with them, not only the Foreign Minister, but also various committees that travel to China and elsewhere, we must mention these things. I remember that when we were with the European Committee in China a few years ago, we also discussed human rights with the Chinese hosts, and we must continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135654	Yes, but I think it's very crucial that this trust should be given weight to a decision made by the Chinese regime. Well, can you trust it? Can it be trusted in particular when it is the case that, after they introduced this rule, on 1 January 2015, China has indicated that prisoners are prisoners who are in laogai, that is, in the prisons over there too are citizens, and that therefore they can also decide to give away their organs? Thinks sir. Does Khader care that a prisoner in a Chinese camp so freely decides that now he wants to give away his organs? Thinks sir. Does Khader throw at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135748	I do not believe in much that happens during torture, and that is also happening in Chinese prisons. As a starting point, I am sceptical about things that are being said during imprisonment during torture.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135807	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135811	Thank you. I very much agree that there should be a critical dialogue with the regime in China, as should a large number of other regimes that violate human rights around the world. Sir. Naser Khader said that Denmark should preach freedoms. Perhaps I would say more that we must defend fundamental freedoms and human rights, as I see them as being fundamental to all people. But that's not what I've been signing up for, like, discussing with Mr. Knox. Naser Khader. What I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, is: The hand on the heart, Mr. Does Khader think that the proposal for adoption proposed by the government is strong enough, given the violent repression that is taking place in China right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208135909	The questioner and I were together in Iran and there we took the critical dialogue literally and went to it. I think all MFs should do that when we're out there traveling and meeting with those regimes. We must repeat time and again and spell out the need to respect fundamental freedoms, regardless of culture and religion, and we must continue to do so. How can we prevent this from happening in the future in relation to the specific case? There I am convinced that what is in the proposal for adoption is right, in the direction of getting the Chinese convinced to respect those rights, instead of just declaring war against them. We can't. We use the tools we now have, and that is, among other things, that we go to it when you and I meet with them, and that our Foreign Minister and Prime Minister, when they meet with them, repeats this and that respect for human rights is a fixed item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140030	Fortunately, no one is proposing to go to war with China. At least we would not be able to support this by any means on the part of the Enhedslisten if that were the case. That is not the case here either. The situation is, of course, that there are two proposals for adoption, and one contains a very clear criticism. This is what Enhedslisten helps to put forward together with the Alternative and the Danish People's Party, and I think that is positive and then there is a proposal in which large parts of the text, if I am to be quite honest, are spent on apologizing for even allowing oneself to say something critical. Is that really enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140109	I also have sympathy for the opposition's proposal for adoption. It's very idealistic. In terms of real policy, our proposal for adoption, which we support 100%, is the one that best promotes this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140125	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140134	Thank you for that and thank you for a good and frank debate on a very, very serious issue. I am pleased that it appears that there is broad support for the fact that the Danish Parliament is expressing its clear opposition to all forms of forced organ transplantation and that there is also a call for the government to help counteract the practice wherever it takes place. I think that is an important signal to send by the Danish Parliament, and the government will take the lead in fulfilling the task we are going to have. I also think it has been important to have a debate on how best to promote what we all want and have as our objective, namely that there should be a fight wherever it is, with forced organ transplantation, and that this means, in concrete terms, in relation to China, that we should choose the strategy, that we should continue to have a dialogue with China, and that, as in the past, we should also address issues of human rights when we have a dialogue with China. I think that is two good conclusions in this debate, and I will take that with me from here. There have been a few specific questions for me. One was how I will prevent Danish patients from becoming involved in the practice that may be present, if it is present, and if you can document it. And I just have to say that I will leave that question to the Minister for Health to deal with. I can't do that. And, like the other, the question has been asked of how I feel about independent investigations in relation to issues that have been raised here. I will, of course, support and support this if it is possible to carry out such studies. But I must also raise the flag of saying that the probability that it is possible to get through conducting independent investigations on this issue is not very great. We have experience. The Red Cross has among other things: tried unsuccessfully.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140417	Thank you to the Secretary of State. I've got three questioners. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140423	Thank you. In any case, I think that in this debate we have seen that there is a difference between the government and the Liberal Alliance, because if you heard Mr. Henrik Dahl's speech on behalf of the Liberal Alliance and compared it to the Foreign Minister's speech, then there is a huge difference. I have to say that I like the Secretary of State's approach to this better. Maybe it's 'cause mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and the Left have been inside pushing a little in the right direction. You can always hope for that. I have to put one question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is in all its simplicity that there will now be a vote on Tuesday when we are going to vote on this. And what exactly will the Foreign Minister do with that adoption? Is it the case that the Foreign Minister will call the Chinese ambassador into the Foreign Minister's office and point out that there is this adoption? So what exactly can be expected of the Foreign Minister in the light of that adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140532	Whether there is an attempt to establish some difference between a concrete analysis carried out by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and what I am saying here from the platform, I do not really want to go into at all. I would just like to say that, in cooperation with the other rapporteurs, the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur has taken an active part in formulating exactly the proposal for adoption that lies here, and that the adoption that has been proposed here seems to me to be a very good decision, because it emphasizes precisely that we must reject it when forced transplantation takes place, and that we must continue to do so, and that is the answer to Question 2 on the path that we have taken so far and which we believe has also contributed to the improvements that have been seen, after all, in relation to the human rights situation in selected areas in China. It is actually going the right way, namely through the dialogue that you have with the Chinese authorities when you meet them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140641	Now it is a possibility that I am wrong, but to me it sounded as if the Minister would do little more than put it in the hay box and then leave it there simmering and then perhaps at some point take it up if the Minister were to come near a Chinese official. I just have to say that there is now a vote by the Danish Parliament. I think the Minister should act on this as a starting point. So what exactly is the Minister going to do right now on the basis of the adoption that has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140717	I think I have the answer. The first time I meet Chinese colleagues, the dialogue will continue, which has been so far and which has, of course, most likely helped to bring about the results and improvements that we have seen in selected areas in relation to human rights. That is also what is stated in what has been proposed as adoption, namely that the Folketing attaches importance to the continuation of the strategic partnership with China and that, under it, we also see the cooperation and equal dialogue based on mutual respect, so that we can now read directly from the adoption. That is what must continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140803	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140808	Of all of us who are in this Chamber today, and possibly of all Danes at all, the Foreign Minister has the privilege of being the one who sits in the highest lookout tower and looks out at the world and can assess what the situation is like, as well as having the most consolidated knowledge to stand on. With that knowledge and with that potential, is it the Secretary of State's assessment that there is a forced organ transplant in China today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140845	A few weeks ago, I was told that I was sitting in a tall tree. Now I hear I've got an even better viewing post. In fact, I agree with the questioner that I have come up even higher, and it is not bad at least it is not if you are trying to get an overview. I have just sat down in the chair and I have nothing to add in relation to what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140913	It's fair enough given how newly joined the minister is. But is the Minister going to try to keep up with and assess whether there is an involuntary organ transplant in China?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208140937	That then follows on from the answer I gave to the rapporteur for the alternative. There I stressed that we would be happy to support it if independent studies could be carried out. So far, neither international organisations, Denmark nor other countries have been able to collect consolidated data which verify that the annual number of transplants is equivalent or higher than that which the Chinese authorities place it on, according to the debate which has also been raised by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. That is what I can say at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141025	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141029	Thank you. Basically, we have discussed today two proposals for adoption which will be put to the vote tomorrow. There is one from the government for which the Foreign Minister is of course on the goal, and then there is one from Enhedslisten, Alternativet og Dansk Folkeparti. It was said by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that it would be detrimental to the Danes if the second proposal, our proposal for adoption, were adopted. Is that correct? Will it be harmful to the Danes if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141106	It will, of course, depend on what the consequence would be of the adoption of the proposal for adoption. However, the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur referred, among other things, to the situation in the Middle East. to what we have seen with regard to India and the reactions that have been from the Indian side in relation to a very concrete case on the Danish side and a way that we have acted on the Danish side. I can't say anything about exactly what the consequence would be. I just think that it is very precisely said, also by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, that if you want to do more than make value-political markings in the Folketing, but actually want to move something in China, then the right thing to do is to pursue the lead that a broad majority of the Folketing has put forward for us to pursue, that is, the clue that has been part of the reason why, after all, improvements have been made in certain areas of human rights in China. I think that is the right conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141207	It is clear that as rapporteurs we can imagine all sorts of things and all sorts of scenarios that could happen in China and in all sorts of other countries, but now it is the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is Minister for Foreign Affairs and so I would like a clear answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is there any reason to assume that the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative's proposal will be adopted tomorrow, will it harm the Danes? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141238	There is at least a great deal of reason to assume that it would not improve the situation of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141245	We thank the Minister for the time being. A second round has been requested. That is why I now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141301	Thank you, sir. President. I would really like to thank you for the debate. After all, I think it is worth noting that there is agreement with nuances in the Folketing to correct criticism of this. Then there is disagreement as to how the criticism should be expressed. I think the criticism is best expressed where it stands alone and is not linked to ideas of mutual respect and also something about trade and other things that lie there. I think the clean line is the best. It is a clear message that China must stop this disorder and must do so immediately. There has been a lot of focus on this decision that was taken and that entered into force on 1 January 2015 that China will in future refrain from using organs from sentenced prisoners executed prisoners. I think it is essential to deal with the fact that China itself says that sentenced prisoners may well be voluntary citizens. Doomed prisoners can decide voluntarily to give up organs. Then it might be a little dangerous, you might say, if there is suddenly a call for such an organ. From the Chinese point of view, blood tests have been carried out on people and so on, so that we know roughly whether the organs that they possess are useful. If there is sudden demand for the body in question, one might well risk that one's death sentence will be carried forward in time if one has so-called voluntary commitment to donate one's body. So I have to say that I do not believe much in this kind of volunteering among prisoners who sit in Chinese labor camps. I also think the figures speak their own language. Pr. On December 30, 2015, China had an organ donor register that was 40,000 people in. By the way, it's very funny that it's such a round number. Normally it'd be 40,671 or something. But that's 40,000. That's the way it is. Throughout 2015, 7,785 organs were transplanted from 2,766 so-called volunteers. What is the probability that 2,766 of the 40,000 people have happened to have died? I find it very difficult to understand. I have to admit that. I think there's something in these numbers that's not transparent. It does not add up, and it gives me the impression that things are going on in China in this area that does not tolerate the light of day and that, therefore, the Chinese side has not been willing to do what has been formally adopted itself. China itself is said to be making 10,000 transplants a year out of a 40 000 voluntary donor population. This is equivalent to the death of one in four people in the donor register within a year. In my view, these are very strange figures. They want us to look into these matters more closely, and that is why it should not be a problem for China if they had nothing to hide, to present this evidence. In my first rapporteur's speech I mentioned the name of a Chinese woman, Zaiqun Wei, who is therefore married to a Danish man. Her two siblings are currently in prison in China. Not because they have done something illegal, at least not in the Danish context, but because they belong to Falun Gong. They fear today to become victims of organ transplants. They've had blood tests. They're kind of inside the engine room, they're ready to be expanded if you want, if there's a suggestion that their organs can be used. I understand that Zaiqun Wei sits in Denmark and is afraid for his siblings. For what kind of inhumane and barbaric regime does it allow to behave in this way towards its people? What kind of a world is it that pops up a little about such a move? See, Zaiqun Wei asks in his letter only one thing, namely for help to save his siblings. She asks that we from the Danish Parliament tell her about her siblings' case to Danish society and let more and more people know what is going on in China. I think we should follow that call. We must not look silently at what is going on in China, leaving the Chinese in the lurch, because history will judge us hard if we do so. That is why I hope for consideration and agreement from all parties to the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141819	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141827	Thank you for your comments, in particular the comment that the clean line is best. Does this only apply to this case, or is it a principle that the Danish People's Party has when it comes to the act of foreign policy, that is, not critical dialogue, but the pure line?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208141857	Well, that depends on the circumstances. It depends on what we assess separately, you can make the most of it. There was once an apartheid regime in South Africa. There was the rapporteur's party involved in putting the pure line, so to speak, by imposing sanctions on South Africa. There the Social Democrats thought that they were the furthest in line. Perhaps that was the case in reality. In this case, I and the Danish People's Party believe that we are coming the longest with the clean line, but there can be a difference, because what is crucial is what brings us closer. I believe that it brings us closer to having this debate today, that greater attention is being paid to this problem in general in the Danish population, but also in the population all over the world, because for some strange reason it is not something that can be read every week in Danish newspapers. It's weird when you think about how violent an attack it really is. Everyone in here has agreed on this, perhaps with one exception, which did not say so much about it, but everyone else has agreed that it is an abomination to kill other people to use their organs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142011	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142014	Yes, just as it is an abomination to shoot refugees in rubber boats on the Mediterranean Sea in order not to get them to Europe. The rapporteur says that the clean line may be the best and may not be the best, so there is no such principle that critical dialogue is good or critical dialogue is not good. It depends entirely on the circumstances. There are no principles here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142046	No, it is for the Social Democrats that there are no principles. It is not in the case of the Danish People's Party in relation to what Mr. Nick Hækkerup is rolling around in that again, and I want Mr. Hækkerup to do that again. Nick Hækkerup is welcome to the heart. If you really want to derail a debate on the murder of hundreds of thousands of people with their perfidities, I just want to say that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, sir. Nick Hækkerup's group colleague, even group chairman, has said, of course, that we must stop receiving people who come here as asylum seekers. We need to set up camps in the neighbourhoods. Then the Social Democracy was given the opportunity to vote it through in the Parliamentary Chamber. The Social Democrats certainly voted against it. Perhaps it is about something quite different for the Social Democratic Party. Perhaps it's about saying it, as sir. Nick Hækkerup and his Social Democratic fighters think that the people want to hear but to implement it, no, you don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142143	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142149	Thank you. In the adoption made by the Danish People's Party and supported by both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, human rights have a very prominent role, and one gets the impression that someone is guarding human rights, it is the Danish People's Party. I personally think this is a very welcome development. But that is why, of course, I would just like to make sure that it is not only human rights in China, but human rights in general, and that is also when it comes to refugees who, under difficult conditions, take over the Mediterranean, including when it comes to human rights in Russia, including when it comes to the human rights of foreigners and refugees in Denmark. Would the rapporteur please confirm that human rights are not only valid in China, but that that is something that applies throughout the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142237	The Danish People's Party has nothing against freedoms. Freedom is the basis of human rights. Human rights have then become a superstructure of freedoms, and some thistles have certainly been included in the otherwise beautiful bouquet of freedoms. We'd like to get those thistles out of here. We have also heard that we now have a government that will look critically at the conventions. We think this is positive and we look forward to seeing what it translates into. But it is not only in Denmark that one has that attitude. Theresa May, the British Prime Minister, has said that parts of human rights should be renegotiated, as others have said. So, yes, as a starting point, the idea that we have a set of fundamental freedoms is perfectly clear and correct, but it just must not develop into seeing the world as such, where we have almost established a world citizenship, where people can move thousands of kilometres from one end of the globe to the other, and when they reach, for example, Denmark's borders can still claim to be refugees, even if it is perhaps both years and days since they left Afghanistan, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142355	That, however, was an incredibly large amount of words from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth on a very simple question. I was actually just trying to follow the line with the clean lines, that is to say the thing to say, so it is understandable that the Chinese authorities can understand that human rights are there to be followed. And I agree with that. But I don't understand why, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth cannot simply answer yes to the fact that in China I agree with that, and that also applies to the Mediterranean, and that also applies in Denmark. It should actually be quite simple to answer whether the Danish People's Party supports human rights throughout the world. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142442	I understand that it's simple for sir. Martin Lidegaard, who by the way is not known for being in verbal trouble. I have to say, I actually understand that sir... Martin Lidegaard can easily answer that question simply, because I understand that the Radical Left party programme can almost boil down to human rights or boil up, because with all the sentences and so on. there is quite a lot to be said about. But I just have to say it's not that easy. Because we also have a task that is about defending our country and defending our continent and ensuring that there is still a future for our children and grandchildren. And I am not sure there is, if you are to continue to have millions of people flowing into Europe unfettered.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142525	The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142529	From the end of the 1950s and 20 years ahead, Danish companies earned billions of dollars sending hundreds of thousands of Danes to a dictatorship which banned minorities from speaking their own language and who executed political opponents in a bestially manner by garrating them. It was Spain. Would it have been right for the Danish governments of the time to ban any relations with Spain in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142608	I will not ban all relations with China. What private companies are doing must, of course, be done by private companies as a starting point. But it is different, I think, when it comes to public authorities, because we have a special responsibility there. So there is a special responsibility for us when we are aware that, for example, there is a responsibility. the murder of people who have done nothing but engage in meditative practices such as Falun Gong. In my opinion, there is a demand for us as responsible politicians to shout in arms and say that we will not accept it. This also means, of course, that our starting point has been that we have said no, even when the Capital Region, in which I myself have been sitting, has decided to cooperate closely with a Chinese province. Then we have voted against because there is a very special responsibility on the part of public authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142708	That was a long answer, but I do not think it really answered my question. With regard to a dictatorship of the kind Spain was up to 1975, which violated human rights and behaved very badly on the basis of today's standards, would it have been more appropriate, in the opinion of the questioner, to interrupt all relations at the level of the authorities and to prevent companies from developing and similar things?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142740	In fact, I think I replied relatively clearly to that. No, I do not think that private companies should be prevented from doing what they now believe is beneficial to them. However, I think that the situation is different when it comes to public authorities, i.e. municipalities, regions and the state. That is where I think we have a special responsibility. I think we can say there that we do not want formalized cooperation with provinces in China or with the Chinese state as such. For example: I think it is a bad idea to make a Danish university in China. I think we should work together with democracies. I think there should be much more cooperation with Taiwan. I think that Denmark should basically recognise Taiwan as an independent country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142820	The last question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142825	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Danish People's Party together are tabling proposals for the adoption of a clear criticism and that is a positive sign of the clear violations of human rights that are taking place in China and, above all, of the right to life, which is what we are talking about when innocent people are killed, in order to be able to take their bodies, as the rapporteur also mentioned. Now, at the end of the day, there was a debate on human rights in relation to freedoms, and there I am just wondering what the rapporteur really means. So, what are freedoms? I know there's no book you can look at and see anything about freedoms. On the other hand, human rights are something on which we have a global consensus. So, when we can afford to criticise China for something today, it is because there is global agreement that people have a number of fundamental rights. And if you do not recognise them, you are very, very weak in criticising, for example, the violent violations that are taking place in China. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that we know what human rights are. Freedoms, on the other hand, are something that it is up to an individual assessment to describe as freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208142944	Now I would like to challenge the premise a little bit, and it is not because I want to be polemical towards Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. In other words, if human rights were fully recognised globally, perhaps we would not have had the major problems that we have today, basically. Because then we would be in a situation where no one needed to escape from anywhere. So it may well be that it is a global ambition, but it is not universally recognised, and there are even countries that have unequivocally spoken out against human rights, Saudi Arabia, just to take a concrete example. What are freedoms? Well, freedom can in fact be boiled down to being the Lockese thoughts, that is, John Locke's thoughts about the right to life and the right to freedom of expression, the right to assemble freely and the right to form parties, movements and associations in his own view. In other words, it is all the fundamental rights that we as a human being should have. If you go down in the essence of human rights as such, that is, not judgments etc., then I think that the biggest problem with human rights is social rights, i.e. the right to freedom of expression, for example. A job. Because can you promise that? Can a country promise that everyone can get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143102	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143105	We have both read history, and we know what happened during World War II, and how brutal and terrible it was. It can be said that after this terrible time for the world, the fantastic thing actually happened in 1948 that the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which among other things. China as a member of the United Nations has undertaken to comply. That is what makes it even make sense to demand some of the Chinese regime in this area. For they have actually promised the world and their own people that they would live up to it. My acquaintance, the Chinese have not committed themselves to following Locke's or other scientists' thoughts and ideas. So I just want to encourage the Danish People's Party to consider this, because when you go around criticising human rights at other times, you weaken the opportunity, for example, to put pressure on the Chinese regime or other rogue states around which we might need to criticise.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143206	I understand what Mr. Kim has to say. Nikolaj Villumsen says, and that is also why it is so essential to restore respect for human rights that some of these international conventions are sung, that you come to speak foreign back to basics, so that you find out what is central, what is crucial. Instead, we are now in a primordial forest of judgments and decisions about all sorts of things between heaven and earth, and we need to get it into. For the very principle that there must be some freedoms that every human being has, we are strongly in favour of in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143249	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. The vote on the proposed adoption will be held on Tuesday 13 December 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143305	As you know, there is no minister in this area. It is Parliament's own responsibility. The debate must be listened to, and it must then be debated in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143337	Thank you. I think it can be said that this is actually a day when we are rollin' some decisions that we have had shifts of opinion on in this Parliament, for the sake of those parties that are not so large. We think it is a good thing that they also dare to take on the responsibility of being part of a government as ministers, but Members must also be able to take care of the parliamentary work for which the electorate has elected them, here in the Assembly. What I want to say today is that over the years there have been different rules governing access for ministers who are also members of the Folketing to leave the Folketing during their ministerial term. Today's proposal reinstates the right to leave for ministers who are members of the Folketing. The purpose of amending Parliament's Rules of Procedure is to take account in particular of parties forming part of a government which received a 10% voter vote. or below, in the last parliamentary elections, so that the parties have the opportunity to call substitutes so that they can effectively carry out the work of the Folketing. The law shall cease when the person concerned resigns as a minister or wishes to meet again as a member of the Folketing. The provision allows a minister who has been granted leave to appear in the Chamber in his capacity as Minister, without prejudice to the leave granted. But it is also the case, of course, that a minister who enters a period of leave does not have the right to vote when he or she meets in the Chamber. Those were my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143521	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143528	Thank you, sir. President. I would really like to ask Mrs Karen J. Klint what has changed since 22 November, because there I can read on TV 2's website that neither can the Social Democrats see any sense in changing the rules back to what they looked like in Nyrup, and now I quote: "We have no intention of changing the rules on leave. We have some leave rules that work in relation to maternity and other cases, and we have no ambition to change it," says Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat. What has happened since 22 November and now since the Social Democratic Party has a completely new position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143611	I do not want to say that this is completely new, because we voted in favour of the proposal in the past. I myself have not personally participated in the debates or discussions that have taken place, but in fact I think it is fair enough that we say that, when you want to form a government with members of some small parties, we give the parties a chance for parliamentary work to be carried out. I don't know the middle bills, and I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143638	Otherwise, I think it is a reasonable question to ask the rapporteur, since the rapporteur is now the rapporteur in this area, in other words what has changed over these few days, so that we have gone from a blank rejection to now a full endorsement. Perhaps it could be something about the fact that 52 million have just been allocated. kr. I would also like to say to the parties that, like the Social Democratic Party, it has been the bait to say: if we get some extra money, some more dough, we will be able to change the rules on leave. Can the rapporteur deny that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143714	I do not think we are for sale for the argument that, because there are more parties in the Folketing, it costs more to run the parties. This is not something special for us in the Social Democrat Party. It is also something that will be a joy for the new parties that come in. We are many more parties and therefore it costs more. So I think it is fine that we have now reached a common agreement that we support the government's desire for enlargement. Personally, I would have preferred it to be a red government and that there was no need for this. But the electorate has now put the blue bloc at the head of the country, and we respect that in the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143746	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143753	Thank you. I believe that what the previous rapporteur referred to is the second part of the agreement of which this proposal forms part, i.e. the proposal to increase support for the parties, group support, by 40%, i.e. by 52 million. kr. plus the loose. The other day I saw a contribution from a nurse at the Rigshospitalet, Harun Demirtas, and he simply could not understand why he and his colleagues should be guilty of not being able to offer good conditions to the elderly patients and constantly being told that they should save and cut back, but that politicians could find 52 million in one afternoon. kr. to raise their own standards. Can you understand how that feeling can affect the Danes out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143835	Well, I do not take a position on how people react to feelings, but I understand the problem raised by the rapporteur. It's just not part of the discussion we're having right now. It's a different part. However, I have just said that it is also a little important that small parties also have proper conditions. When the voters want small parties into the Folketing, we also have to look at how we get the opportunity for the small parties to act. So I don't see the 52 million. kr. the party-care work here in the Folketing is linked to leave application. The fact that it is concluded at the same time does not concern this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143912	Indeed, I think this is a matter of great concern, because it was as the former rapporteur said that the social democracy in the public sector refused to agree to this agreement. It was not until, if I may say so, glaze on the cake in the form of an agreement of 52 million. kr., who will of course very much take account of exactly the Social Democracy and the Left and the other major parties, that one was prepared to help the Conservatives with their problem. That's what happened, and that's why people are reacting, I think, because it's such a typical Christiansborgstudent trade. It is clear what the process has been. That is why I have to ask once again: can the rapporteur not understand if the positions on this issue are perhaps a little critical?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208143954	I mean, I have no problem with citizens in Denmark being critical of the conditions we have in here at Christiansborg. However, I am of the clear opinion that it is important that all parties, regardless of their size, have some form of organisation or some employees employed, so that we can run our party work in here, not the electoral party work in our circles, but the parliamentary work in which the citizens also want us to have the power in each party to answer the many questions they send us. So it costs something to drive a democracy, and I do not recognise the distinction made by the author, so the list of results is linked, as the author says.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144032	We would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Karen J. Klint, and we would like to move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Karen J. Klint. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144042	There is another rapporteur in the Chamber, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted, who has referred to this as one, yes, now I am not directly quoting, because I am not sure that it is legal, from the Parliament's platform, but a toilet agreement. I think it smells a little bit of it, too. We have to note that there are some parties that have turned on a plate. The Social Democratic Party rejected, a few days before this agreement was reached, that there could be any change in the leave arrangements, but when money came on the table, 52 million. kr., it seemed that one was nevertheless prepared to respond to the wish of the Conservative People's Party to replace alternates instead of the members appointed for ministerial posts. It is, in fact, a turnaround from the Conservative People's Party, for the Conservative People's Party was in this way involved in abolishing the regime that the Conservative People's Party is supposed to introduce now, and it is, in fact, a little paradoxical that this is the case. Further paradoxically, it's all been going on around this. It is very, very strange that such a decision to give an extra 52 million. kr. to the parties and at the same time allow access to join ordinary members of parliament for ministers to be taken over a period when all media attention is directed towards some government negotiations at Marienborg. Why was it at that time? Well, I even think that the decision on these 52 million. kr. came out a late evening when there was no possibility that it could be mentioned anywhere. It is also very strange, and this suggests that you would not quite have it on the front pages of the newspapers. If you want to give extra money to the parties and if you want to give access to joining alternates instead of ministers, I think that is fine. But then you have to stand by it. Then you have to stop making such weird arrangements and arrange this, so it comes out at times when all the attention is directed somewhere else. Well, the Danes aren't stupid. You can see through this. They just need to find out that it happened, and when they find out that it happened here, they'll see it through too, of course. That is why I must also say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we cannot support this. We are against both the part which is not formally on today's agenda, but which is part of this toilet trade, about the extra money for the parties, and we cannot support the fact that there should be access to join members of the Folketing. After all, this also entails additional costs. And then we should not be pale to see that this limit, which is set at 10%, makes me wonder when the second largest government party will also consider that their ministers are now so tense that they cannot do their parliamentary work alongside them. I am aware, at least as far as I know, that one of the alternates of a party has left the Liberal Alliance in the meantime, but that is to say nevertheless: when will the Liberal Alliance also call representatives of the parliamentary group? It also costs money. And what it does then is that it artificially puffs up some party groups. Where the Conservative People's Party has six seats in the Folketing, it will now in practice appear that the Conservative People's Party has nine members of the Folketing because nine different politicians are going to speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Liberal Alliance can now not give Liberal Alliance good ideas... really inflate their parliamentary group by adding six men and thus in public getting to fill even more. So this is, to the best of my knowledge, something weird, this whole thing about putting people together instead of ministers. It is clear, moreover, that if you, as an elected member of parliament, consider that you cannot be a member of parliament, at the same time as you are a minister, you can resign your mandate or you can say no to becoming a minister. After all, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, all parties that form part of the government, also has the opportunity to pick up politicians outside Christiansborg. And I know that there are cowfies such as Connie Hedegaard and Lene Espersen and others in the Conservative People's Party, who could well have served in the Folketing if it had been the case that they had been pointed out by the Conservative People's Party. However, as I said, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144557	There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144603	Thank you. I would now like to start by confirming that we, the Conservatives, will have nine men in the Folketing. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of this, but there is in fact a separation between the legislative and executive powers, and we will still only sit six Conservatives in the Folketing. But I would also like to hear something about this system of increased party subsidies. It is, after all, a matter of means to be applied for. I would like to know if the Danish People's Party now, when they think it is so horrible to increase this support, will refrain from seeking these funds. I guess so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144635	I cannot answer Mrs Mette Abildgaard on that. But I can at least say to Mrs Mette Abildgaard that I think it is fair that, after all, the parties should be put on an equal footing. So, rather than following what Mrs Mette Abildgaard says, we would urge the parties to reconsider whether it is really necessary to give these 52 million. kr. We do not know that, but the possibility is there to be able to join representatives of ministers. I think that should be the call, and there is a chance now. I hope you seize the opportunity, because I think that will actually raise respect for politicians in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144723	I now think the rapporteur has something to say about. I would like to ask again: if, in principle, you are so opposed to increasing this amount of aid, and when the Danish People's Party now says that the Danish crowns should not be invested in democracy, which is what you are doing here, why is it that the Danish People's Party does not just refrain from applying for these funds? After all, it is money that should be applied for to be paid into the parties' accounts. That would make this bill lower. So why is the rapporteur not prepared to do so by the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144754	Why is it, for example, that Mrs Mette Abildgaard's party? is not prepared to say no to investments from private donors? Well, it is well known that the Conservative People's Party has been receiving money from Danish Business and Danish Industry for years, and I don't know what. After all, it is money that the Danish People's Party has certainly not received to the extent that the Conservative People's Party has. You could choose to do that, but I do not think the Conservative People's Party wants that either. I think there should be equality. If you get some money in here, everyone has to have access to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144826	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144828	It's only for the sake of clarity, for now, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is standing here condemning and stating very clearly that we are rejecting the motion for a resolution and, at the same time, mentioning the figure contained in the motion for a resolution, we are saying immediately that we are going to apply for that money. Otherwise, the number doesn't match. So since you are outraged by the size of the figure, I have to interpret it as if the party opposed to the proposal intends to apply for that money. Otherwise, it is simply untruth that comes from the speaking chair of the Folketing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208144903	I think there are a lot of people and I mean a lot of Liberal Alliance voters who do not understand how the Liberal Alliance can go in favour of giving more money to the parties, otherwise we hear in time and prematurely from the Liberal Alliance, that almost every penny in public budgets must be turned in order to get money for the top tax concessions that the Liberal Alliance has been taking up for quite some time now. I think there are a great many of the electorate of the Liberal Alliance who do not understand what the party they have crossed in the parliamentary elections is doing in this matter. However, I would like to say, and I would like to stress this, that when a majority in the Folketing decides to give extra money to the political parties, it should be strange that we would be in a position where we were worse off than all the other parties. Why would we do that? So, what would be the reason for doing so, I would like to ask Mr Van der Klaauw? Leif Mikkelsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145005	There was clearly a reason why the rapporteur did not want to answer the question. However, I have then rejected the rapporteur, so there is now clarity that we are opposed to a resolution, but that we are planning to seek the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145017	Yes, but sir can. Leif Mikkelsen wasn't surprised. In fact, I dare say that if the Liberal Alliance had not been equipped with a number of ministerial cars, the Liberal Alliance would never have agreed to this proposal. And then Mr. Leif Mikkelsen was about to stand on the platform and tell us a great deal about the misuse of citizens' money this proposal was an expression of. But things can change that way, and you just have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145040	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145045	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's criticism. One of the things I think is really a pity, in the agreement that has been reached, is that we have had a debate in this House over a number of years about party support. The rapporteur himself is talking about this with the cash flows of private interests, and the recent government actually set up a group of experts who, with a dyke work of over 400 pages on how to create a new party support system, which opened up so that there was transparency, against the fact that the parties might, in turn, get something more in public party support. It's been put in the trash can. This has simply been set aside now, because you could make this apologize for the term "shop agreement" a late evening at Christiansborg. Is the Danish People's Party prepared, if I may say so, to take up this report and have this question of openness about the cash flows in politics discussed seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145137	It was a nicer interpretation of the word agreement that the rapporteur up here had and which I think we should maintain. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145140	Thank you. Yes, and no in fact, because yes, we're actually very interested in getting these cash flows out. But I do not think it should be the undertone that would then have to say that we will have to have more money in return. In other words, if you can take that part out of it, so you say that yes, we will have more openness on the cash flows, but it is not on the basis that more money will then have to be given in public subsidies to the parties so yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145219	I think that sounds really good, and I think we should actually get to grips with that early in the new year. It can also be said that, if this proposal is adopted, the parties have received the additional support that I could understand, among other things. Social democracy was the condition for accepting greater openness about political donations. Then maybe we can get back to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145240	Yeah, I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145244	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted. The Left rapporteur is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, so the Left will have the floor at the end of this matter. Yeah, it's a little confusing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145302	Thank you. I am sorry that I had forgotten that this was not a legislative proposal. Anyway, the proposal we are debating today is, in fact, a completely embarrassing round for the people's regime, and not least for the course that has been going on around it. The proposal is, after all, one part of the implementation of an agreement which a number of parties secretly negotiated and concluded on a late Saturday evening before the formation of the new government, and which basically means that the parties decided to grant themselves 52 million. kr. more in party support plus the fix that comes with. I really think that the agreement, and in particular the course around it, reflects some of the worst aspects of Christiansborg: politicians and parties who change their minds on questions of principle, according to what has just been opportune for them; horse-trading, where something is traded for something quite different; and not least politicians who, while we ask everyone else to save and cut down, in one afternoon can find 52 million. kr. to himself. So let's start with the exciting prehistory of the very theme of this bill, namely the possibility of convening alternates for the members of parliament who become ministers. It really is a study of how attitudes to a quite fundamental question can change as the wind blows. That is why it is a little strange that it is the Conservatives who want to reinstate the possibility of convening alternates to the Folketing for the members who become ministers, because it was the same Conservative party that previously, together with the Left, was opposed to that particular possibility. When the then SR government introduced the possibility for the Radical Left, the Conservative rapporteur called it a kind of special transfer income to the Radical Left, while the Left called it pure electoral deception. And in the report the two parties wrote that it was a special regime for the Radical Left, whereby the party obtains a number of seats in the Assembly Hall, for which the result of the last parliamentary elections does not qualify. But today, when it is the Conservatives themselves, who have become a small party and face the same challenge, then the attitude is suddenly the opposite for both K and V. Well, it doesn't look very pretty. I think there's only one word for it, and that's opportunism. Social democracy has done the same in the process just with reverse signs. They themselves introduced the possibility of convening these alternates and opposed the abolition of them, but when the Conservatives raised the possibility of reintroducing it a few weeks ago, the Social Democratic Party was suddenly opposed to yes, at least a few days, until they saw the possibility of getting something in return to help the Conservatives out of the squeeze in which they had come, namely an increase in financial support for the parties at Christiansborg. This really brings me to the most embarrassing aspect of the resolution we are debating today, namely the trade in horses between the majority of the parties last Saturday. As I said, this is part of an agreement which also includes an increase in party support of 52 million. kr. So, to help the Conservatives out of a mess, the big parties simply took their money. I think that's the definition of a horse deal. The agreement was also, as has been mentioned, concluded a late evening and was probably timed to be published at the same time as the government and the new government, and the hope was probably that it would drown in all the other news. I understand that wish, because it almost goes without saying that many Danes will wonder or worse about this agreement. In the middle of a time when we are cutting deep into our educations, when we hear about older people who are not changing their diapers, when everyone is being asked to cut back and hold back, politicians can find 52 million. kr. plus it solves in an afternoon. The newspaper.dk brought a post from a nurse at Rigshospitalet the other day. He wrote: "When I, along with other nurses and sosuers, have shouted and told about 80-year-old Mrs. Jensen's needs and desire to have proper, warm food on the table... and be allowed to live life without planned and scheduled toilet visits, we were always told one thing: He continues: While many sosuers and nurses... feel guilty that they cannot give the necessary help to Mrs. Jensen... the politicians grab 52 million kroner that they found in a day and will spend on facilitating the work for themselves. ▪ I can understand that frustration, and I think it is actually shared by many. I would like to say that I think it is legitimate to discuss party support: whether it is high enough, whether it is arranged in the right way and whether the Folketing should be strengthened with the government in one way or another. But it must be done openly, and it must be done with thoroughness. After all, we are in the special situation in here that we legislate on our own salaries, on our own pensions and on our economic conditions. On the other hand, it should also lead to a particular democratic behaviour and a willingness to open up and debate in depth. I think, as I have said in the questions, that the worst thing is to throw away the work on party support, which was done by this group of experts, and to ignore the recommendations that were made there. We talk a lot about politicians in here, and we take worried mines, but frankly, with such a course as this, where attitudes change, depending on what is opportune and where the parties enter into this type of bargaining, we are asking for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145814	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145819	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has also over the years had slightly different views in relation to this leave option. I have been able to find quotes where Enhedslisten completely rejects the possibility of calling alternates, but on 24 November there is an article in Politiken in which Mrs Pernille Skipper goes out and says that in this way it is open to a special arrangement for small parties, that is, exactly what we have got now, and that a maximum is set. On how many people you'd be able to complement. At the same time, Mrs Pernille Skipper says that it must be part of a larger debate in which more muscles are given to the Folketing. I mean, the WC agreement was kind of willing to make, but not to get more money for the parties, but to strengthen the Folketing. So I don't really understand what the big difference is. The rapporteur seemed very outraged that the two things were mixed together, but this quote suggests that we were prepared to do exactly the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208145923	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is actually fair to discuss party support. I think it is fair to discuss the relationship between government and parliament, but I think that this should be done thoroughly and on an enlightened basis and with the involvement of the people not in a late night hour at Christiansborg. We were open to look at the problem that the Conservatives had. I also had a dialogue with the rapporteur on this. We were willing to discuss this issue of the relationship between Parliament and government. But we had never imagined in our wildest imagination that the agreement would mean a 40 per cent increase in group support. with 52 million. kr. As we have said in the past, we could, for example, do something about it. have thought of strengthening the Danish Parliament's own administration so that we could have gained something more independent, independent knowledge. I am not sure that strengthening the parties' own experts and spin doctors will create a better and more enlightened debate in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150021	I'm just wondering about this outrage about mixing things up when you were obviously willing to. In relation to the time when this agreement was concluded, there has also been the low-practical in that we, for example. Conservatives clearly said that we could not go into a government without having clarity about this. We could not risk sitting three members of parliament back and then being trapped in the situation. I really think that this agreement was published at a time when it was able to come out and be covered by the media. It was not just the minute after the government's constitution was presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150058	That is true, but it was probably not with the good will of the government that it ended up in the media there on Saturday night. Someone else must have made sure of that. As I said, I think it's fair to discuss these things. I think it would have been better to have made an agreement on this with the alternates separately and that we had discussed the other separately very much with the involvement of the expert report prepared by the last government working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150131	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150134	Thank you. I very often agree with Enhedslisten, but I have also learned to say how you feel and how you have felt, and since we made this agreement, I have actually felt a little bad about the way Enhedslisten has behaved. I think it looks like Enhedslisten has seen an opportunity to take advantage of the distrust that is in the population of politicians to win cheap points. I think that is because, as Mrs Mette Abildgaard says, the Enhedslisten itself was quite clearly open to small parties also being able to enter government, and so they can only do so if they have a parliamentary group of a certain size, so that we can also manage the groups, so that we have an opportunity to control the government. After all, these are some measures that will make it easier for, for example. SF, there is a small party, to keep track of what the ministers are doing. It will be easier for the Danish Parliament to keep track of the government, so for me it looks like this is a case where Enhedslisten is trying to take some cheap points. Is that right or wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150242	I understand that it is unpleasant for the rapporteur to discuss these things and for the other parties that are part of this agreement. We were also offered to be part of it, just as the rapporteur was. I assume that the rapporteur was also not invited to negotiations on what was presented for an agreement late Saturday. I think that what the rapporteur says very well describes the concept of shooting the messenger. If I look at the debate that has taken place since this agreement was concluded, then it is not a debate that is prompted by what Enhedslisten says. At least I feel just like Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark. It's nice to be able to upgrade our time. It's nice to have more employees, but it's just a lot of other people around here who would also like to, and who have little difficulty understanding how we could just find a 40-percent upgrade in here while they have to cut down and fire colleagues at their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150342	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150344	In other words, we are also opposed to firing elsewhere. I know Enhedslisten is, too. I don't think it's uncomfortable to talk about. I myself was one of those who suggested that group support should be increased. I have gone out and I have been flipping the flag, because now it will be easier for us to ask critical questions to the Minister for Employment when they set a cash aid ceiling. Now it will be easier to keep an eye on the Minister for the Environment and Food, because we will have more professional advisors to help us ask the critical questions. I am pleased that the small parties and not just the large power-bearing parties can go in and take part in the executive. Has the Enhedslisten not completely misunderstood that this is meant to strengthen Parliament's efforts against the executive and that this is going to strengthen our ability to make policy in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150426	After all, it is also the governing parties that have the same strength. So what that will mean for the balance between government parties and non-government parties is hard to predict. In any case, it can be said that the large parties will have the opportunity to upgrade quite considerably in their secretariats. As I said, I think it is very relevant to discuss the issue which Mr. Jacob Mark comes along, that is, the question of how we can strengthen the Folketing before the government. I would have liked to see and would still like us to strengthen Parliament's administration, i.e. for example. the economic secretariat, for which we have been working for many years, because it will give us independent knowledge and no more party contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150507	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150510	I hadn't really imagined I'd be asking Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted no questions, but I just need to recapitulate on that, sir. Jacob Mark said. For Mr. Pelle Dragsted said that it would be difficult to predict how this would strengthen the power relationship between the government on the one hand and the Folketing on the other. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted also indicated what is quite right, that this money is given in proportion to the size of the parties. So is it not right, after all, to conclude that it will probably not be of great importance, in other words that the parties that are currently in opposition will not be strengthened relatively more in relation to the parties that are not in opposition at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150600	After all, we now have two very large parties in opposition, both the rapporteur's own party and the Socialists, so of course they will also have a significant share of these funds. But what certainly strengthens the governing parties is the fact that you are allowed to call an alternate. I think it was Helge Adam Møller who said it very clearly at the time, namely that if you have a number of seats and some of them then become ministers, but that at the same time you can call alternates, then of course it strengthens that party because they get more spokesmen in the public. So I think that, overall, it has to be concluded that some sort of strengthening of the government-supporting parties is taking place. However, I fully acknowledge this dilemma of how to deal with it when a small party is going to have ministers. It is a challenge for the Conservatives to suddenly be left with three seats in the Folketing. There is, of course, the possibility of withdrawing from the office of the Folketing, and that might actually be the most sensible. But we were, in fact, prepared to debate that part. In fact, we were also opposed to it when the possibility was abolished back in 2005 by the parties which are now the authors of the resolution to reinstate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150706	But I also think that the right to resign, which you always have as a parliamentarian, could be a fine solution. Because there is something strange about de facto strengthening one's parliamentary group relatively much. Now it is from six to nine talking Conservatives who have their usual walk in here. But if it were the other party, the Liberal Alliance, that replaced all of their people, we would come up to a Liberal Alliance, which probably has almost 20 mandates or more than 20 talking people in the Folketing. And that would, of course, be a significant strengthening of a party, it has to be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150747	In addition, there are also such vague wordings in this proposal, but it might be possible to clarify that it is primarily for parties under 10%. But I think the problem is first and foremost that we have not been able to take this as a thorough debate involving the great work done by the experts, looking at the whole party support and the whole relationship between government and parliament. I think it would have dressed the Folketing to do it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150824	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150825	This follows on from what several rapporteurs have said: what exactly does Enhedslisten imagine is the alternative to the Danish system, which is based on relatively high public support for the parties? When I think of alternatives from other countries, it is of course the case that private contributions represent a proportionate higher proportion. And there I have to say that in my democratic book it is so clear that the vast majority of party support comes from transparent pockets where there are no, if I may say so, political or other ties between those who give the money and the parties who are going to receive it. And that is why I am quite strongly in favour of parties receiving a good public contribution. I actually think it is healthy, and I think it is rather strange something to suspect those parties that have now, a very, very broad majority, chosen to strengthen it, and upgrade the party support currently evolving, so does the economy, and so does the inflation rate which is completely unique in the Danish system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208150936	Well, I actually agree very much. The rapporteur's party is, if I may say so, the recipient of private financial donations, which I find problematic. The rapporteur knows that. So I am very much in agreement with that. I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on how these two things are related, i.e. the legislative proposal we are discussing today and how high the party support should be, because for me it is also very mixed up with what is the problem. I have already said very clearly that I am willing to discuss the whole system of party support. The Enhedslisten, with the rapporteur's former party chairman, Margrethe Vestager, carried out a very good cooperation, that a very thorough expert report on the party support was produced. addresses precisely the problem of the relationship between private and public party support. What if we had met about it, sat down and asked: how are we going to fit this, how are we going to weigh private and public party support, how are we going to create transparency and openness? rather than that, sir. Søren Gade and Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen applauded an appointment in a dark office that the rest of us could join afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151046	In other words, the many, many words that the rapporteur is now shooting at make me feel, as we are talking about it, that it is not really the content, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted has something against it, but he actually thinks that it is very reasonable that reasonable public support should be given to the parties so that they are not dependent on private support. We are not opposed to private support; we just want full transparency so that some parties cannot be suspicious of receiving support for a particular reason. That is why we deserve full publicity. But we also want there to be a relationship between private and public subsidies, and I understand that Enhedslisten does. Then it's not really Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted's problem that he hasn't been in these negotiations? He hasn't been because Enhedslisten has some other things that I think we're all aware they couldn't get through with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151131	I want to say that there are two things in this. One is that it is true that this is about the process. As I said before: the fact that we ourselves legislate on our salaries, our pension conditions and our economic conditions is an injustice. But it can't really be any different. But if that is the case, it is just a great responsibility for us that it should be done properly. And it hasn't done that in this process. That's one. I think the process matters. Two: I think it is a pity that the huge work of the expert group has not been taken as a starting point. 400 pages, three specific recommendations for the design of party support. That's where we should have started.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151212	Then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151213	I would like to acknowledge that the tone is becoming more and more subdued as the debate goes on. So it shows that sometimes conversation is good. Because I have also listened to the fact that it is primarily the process for which Enhedslisten's rapporteur blames us, and not so much the result and perhaps something about the confusion. But there is something I would like a very clear answer to. There are some misunderstandings when some people say that they are then extending their seats, because the Folketing also consists under this system of only 179 people who have the right to vote. So no one will be able to extend their mandates. Can the rapporteur not confirm this? And can the rapporteur not also confirm that if three Conservatives had come in as ministers, there would also have been nine Conservatives who could speak on behalf of the Conservatives? So with regard to the motion for a resolution we are dealing with today because it is not a draft law there is no change in the distribution according to the size of the parties in the Folketing or the possible composition of the Blue Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151316	To conclude, it is true that they do not have the right to vote, but they do have the right to speak, and they also have the right to speak in public. So it is clear that if it is a small party, it will obviously be better able to take part in the public debate by having three ministers and bringing in some more rapporteurs. I think that's obvious. But that's not my main criticism. In relation to this, if it is not the content, I would say: it is also the content that is at stake. I think it is a very sharp increase in party support. If we had entered into a negotiation process we wouldn't, because we weren't invited, and so weren't many others who did. We'd have gone for a much, much cheaper agreement where you, for example. had strengthened the Parliament's financial secretariat so that we could get a counterweight to the calculations made over in the Ministry of Finance; so that we could have such a second opinion. But we're not gonna get that out of this; we're not gonna get that out of this. There we just get more party contributions from one party and from the other party. I believe that the second would have been a much stronger way of strengthening the Folketing, and we could have done so for at least one fifth of the price chosen for party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151420	I find it difficult to see the difference between the fact that some elected representatives are temporarily turned into civil ministers, and the fact that other civilians are brought in still gives away the same number. So the difference is minimal, I think. I am very confident that the parties will be strong enough to have an independent voice in the calculations in the answers we have to give to the citizens, but also in the counter-play that we have to give to a government whoever is in government and whoever is in opposition. Because there are more and more things that we have to do ourselves in order to calculate, and that costs. So does the rapporteur not agree that it is also good for the parties to become more self-propelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151501	I do not think there is a single place of work in this country where you do not want to be upgraded, and that is a good thing for the parties too, and it can certainly also strengthen them vis-à-vis the government if they use the funds in the right way. But at the same time there is a reasonable estimate. Perhaps I would just like to ask you a question: can the rapporteur not understand that the course of events that has taken place in which we have to tamper with our own financial conditions could have been more prettier than what has been?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151533	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Pelle Dragsted. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151546	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that this proposal is not one that the Liberal Alliance had immediately seen coming, but we certainly understand what the Conservative rapporteur has already mentioned, namely that the Conservative People's Party did not consider itself able to enter into government without an agreement in this area if parliamentary work could possibly continue for a party of the size that the Conservative People's Party currently has. On the other hand, we had an understanding of this, and we wanted to be part of government, too, together with the Conservative People's Party. That is why it was part of the overall agreement that a liberal-citizen government should be set up with the three parties with which it was then able to do so. That is why, of course, we were ready to reach an agreement that would ensure that all parties had the opportunity to participate. It is then an agreement which seeks to strengthen the parliamentary basis of the political parties in the Folketing. In order to get a clear picture of this now, because there have been a lot of different signals as to whether it is party support, etc.: It is the group support for the political parties that we are talking about, and it is to strengthen the work of the Folketing, the parliamentary groups and the individual politicians in relation to the government. It is not a question of subsidies to the political parties in the struggle between the political parties to win an election or something else. This is, in fact, an area in which we have the view that it should be completely abolished, and we have actually proposed this. On the other hand, we have never proposed that group support should be abolished. In fact, we seriously believe that there is a need to look at it, and now a small step has been taken here, that is to say, to look at what the power ratio is like. What are the possibilities for the work of the Folketing in relation to the ministries which have a certain degree of gravity in a number of areas and where it can be extremely difficult for the Folketing to get the calculations and facts needed to keep up with them at all? That is why, of course, it will always be of particular interest to those parties that may be in opposition, while it must be assumed that a government usually comes up with a policy which is at least a little closer to the policy of the government-leading parties. So I would like to say, because now it has been mentioned a few times, that it could almost overthrow the Folketing if there were 20 of the Liberal Alliance here in the Folketing, but I would say that it would be a huge strength for the Folketing if that were the case. So we will look forward to that with pleasure. But we just don't have any plans at all to call alternates. We have a well-functioning parliamentary group which has a size that can handle parliamentary work, and that is why we are continuing this work without calling for alternates. So we're not disturbing the balance. We will only do so after the next election, if at all possible, and we will gladly do so, but that is something quite different. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151847	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151851	I was given a partial answer to my question, but I would like to ask you very clearly whether the rapporteur can give a guarantee that during this parliamentary term the Liberal Alliance will not call representatives of the ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151911	Now you have to be careful about guarantees, especially from this platform, because it would probably be played for you at some point a number of times, so of course I do not want to give any guarantee of that. But, of course, if we had done so, we would have done so immediately, because the work is under way. So I can just say that we have no plans to call alternates. It is not because we have not been called upon to do so or asked about it, especially by alternates, but we have no intention of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208151937	Can the rapporteur then explain why he has landed on that 10 per cent limit, because it is still a little interesting that you have landed on that very border. I mean, a party that has 10%. In the Folketing, after all, is a relatively large party, I would say. A party that has the support of 3% is not a very large party. Why, for example, do you have one? not set the limit at 5%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152002	I don't know about that. We did not want any limit which might contain us, because we have never had any plans at all to call alternates.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152013	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152014	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that the electorate of the rapporteur's party before the last parliamentary elections or, in general, the view was that it was the policy of the rapporteur's party to increase support for the political parties by over 50 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152041	I understand, then, that sir. Pelle Dragsted's party now also has plans to seek money, otherwise the amount will not match. But it is just as quietly revealed how many participants will stay in the application process when we get there. And that is always good information for the people's regime. But no, we have not operated on this issue before, but have been fully aware that the work of the Danish Parliament, i.e. the members of parliament, was not very strong in relation to the way the ministries have developed with press services, many consultants, calculators, personal advisors to ministers, etc. We have been aware of the shift in the power ratio, but we have not worked on direct proposals to offset that imbalance. And there is at least some improvement on that in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152136	Well, I'm really glad that in this area, the Liberal Alliance believes that more money is the solution. Because we usually hear when we talk about the problems in the welfare institutions, in our kindergartens and in our nursing homes, that it is never money that is missing. It's always bad management, it's always lack of efficiency. But that is obviously not the case with the Liberal Alliance's own parliamentary group. Apparently, money can solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152204-2	Now I could be a little elegant and say: yes, because that is not bad management. Oh. No, money does not solve everything, but there has been an imbalance that has been exacerbated in recent years, with the armament that has happened in many ministries, as far as we can see from our chairs both with personal advisors, with consultants and calculators and with the army people who are in a number of ministries, and who are actually a kind of counterweight to a number of parties who are in opposition here in the Folketing. So that imbalance has been exacerbated in recent years, after our assessment, and that could then call for a solution. Here comes a little corner of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152239	Thank you, sir. Mr Leif Mikkelsen and Mr Leif Mikkelsen in the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152244	Thank you. Now, of course, the matter has already been examined by other rapporteurs, so I shall say briefly what was our starting point for this. It was actually that we believe that the whole division of power should be taken extremely seriously. Therefore, when we began to talk about the possibility of leave to ministers, we were also of the opinion that all ministers should take leave from the Folketing. Because you have a problem when you sit as both the legislature and the executive. In addition, we also believe that there is some parliamentary work to be done, even if you are in government as a governing party, and we actually think that should be taken seriously. So, originally, our position was that everyone should take leave, everyone should, like, get an alternate in when you entered the government, but now it's the country on this solution so that parties that are smaller and need it can do so. And we very much welcome this because it gives small parties the opportunity to take part in government. In addition, a number of questions have been asked about another agreement, which is not necessarily what we are discussing here, and this is the strengthening of parliamentary groups, and we believe that there is a need to strengthen the parliamentary groups. This does not mean that we would not also like to see a strengthening of the Folketing, i.e. a genuine economic office in the Folketing, which could carry out calculations, but we also think that this strengthening of the parliamentary groups is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152408	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152414	On the radical side, we also support this agreement. We also have some history in it, because we used a similar agreement earlier when we were in government in the 1990s, and we think it makes good sense for smaller parties to have this opportunity to enter government, but at the same time, in practice, also follow the work of this Parliament and contribute to the democratic debate. As has emerged from the debate we have had so far, we also think it has been sensible to strengthen the work of the groups here at Christiansborg. We are, in fact, warm supporters of public support for the work of the parties, not least here at Christiansborg. After all, the checks and balances that lie between the legislative, executive and judicial powers are based on the fact that, in the legislative power, we also have the resources to develop, think policy, make political innovation, and this also means that we sometimes have to adjust the contributions. And the fact that we have a tradition in the Danish people's government to do so and a lesser tradition of giving private support, such as one. Doing in the United States, we are warm supporters of. As you know, we would like there to be a little more transparency about private aid, which we also think is good enough to have, as long as everyone can just keep track of what is going on. But we also think it is important that we have the opportunity, if I may say so, to survive professionally and qualify the debate, even if we do not receive private contributions and not as the main contribution. Against this background, the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152559	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152602	I fully understand the motivation of the Radical Left to support this proposal. From my infancy youth in politics, I can remember the radical member of parliament, sir. Henrik Svane, who, as far as I remember, came in instead of Mrs Marianne Jelved in the same situation. And I remember him because he made his mark as an immigrant and refugee rapporteur. That also says something about how to de facto strengthen your parliamentary group by bringing these people in. Of course, you can also "yes', now you have to be careful about weakening it. I understand, sir. Anders Samuelsen also made his entrance in this Chamber as a deputy in the Radical Left. So I understand the radical Left's ambition, certainly, but I have to ask: does Mr. Martin Lidegaard doesn't really think it's a bit awkward if he really cuts into the leg of this, that the Conservatives will soon be de facto in relation to talking people as big as the Radical Left as this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152704	No, not at all. In my book, I make a great distinction between executive and legislative power. What we are discussing today is the work of the Folketing. This is the opportunity to take the professional and factual and political debates here in the Assembly. There, the strength of the Conservatives will be exactly the same after this proposal for adoption as before. In other words, it would be boring if we made it impossible for smaller parties to participate in government constellations. I think we would have had parliamentary elections by now if that had not been possible. I might have wanted that, it's the only thing that could upset me a little. On the other hand, however, I have great respect for the working people's rule and for government coalitions. It is a proud part of the Danish political tradition that I have no wish to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152757	However, the rapporteur does not really agree with me that if it is the case that it is difficult to put ministers from his own parliamentary group, then the vast majority of parties, including the rapporteur's own party, have a long tradition of bringing in ministers from outside, in other words a minister who is not a member of the Folketing. You could choose to do that as a small party. I know that the Conservative People's Party is, after all, a large party in terms of membership, at least the last time I checked, and among those Members there are also a lot that would be well qualified to sit in ministerial positions. Couldn't you do it as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152835	I must say that I am impressed by both the historical knowledge which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth has, on the party history of the Radical Left and also his ability to bring refugee and alien policy into any question that might come up here. But no, I don't feel very bad about it. I really believe that everyone is best served by the fact that, when it comes to appointing ministers, a party appoints those they think are most qualified, whether they sit on Tinge or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152901	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208152902	First of all, I should like to congratulate the Radicals, because the Radicals are, in fact, one of the only parties in this House that has taken a consistent line on the question of the withdrawal of alternates. For they have always thought that we should be allowed to do so from the time it was introduced in 1996 until it was finally abolished, and then now that it is being introduced again, praise for it. On the other hand, I must say that I am rather surprised that, both in the case of the alternative to which I unfortunately did not have time to ask questions, and in the case of the Radical Left, you do not see the problem in the way this agreement has been reached. Indeed, I share many of the views expressed by the rapporteur that we need a system of party support which, if I may say so, minimises the influence of private special interests on party politics. However, the rapporteur's former leader, Mrs Margrethe Vestager, together with the Enhedslisten, has helped to set up a group of experts which has carried out a poetry work of 400 pages on this very issue, and I do not think it suits the Radical Left, and so the alternative is that we should just put aside the seriousness that we normally have here and the new political culture, and then negotiate such an agreement here in an afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153012	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153013	I do not really feel that we have ignored it at all. After all, we are based on the work that has been done, and that is also why it could be done so quickly. I am not sure that this agreement had come out differently, even though we had set aside a month to negotiate it, because we have had this discussion for a long time. There are many things in the report that we have discussed back and forth and forth, and this is, after all, the support for the work of the groups in here that we are discussing, and not the party support. It can be difficult to understand the difference, but there is actually a great difference and we have had a lot of discussion about it. It is actually very banal or so trivial it may not be because it is somewhere about whether you still think it is a good idea to increase that support at times and that it is a very long time since you have done it, or you don't think it is, and we thought it was a good idea to do it now. We see this as not a huge decision, but a quite sensible decision in the light of the fact that there is inflation and that the complexity of the law in here has increased and therefore the need for resources from the groups has increased. And that's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153119	But that is why it is strange that it is then mixed with an agreement on something quite different. Well, it smells like a horse deal, and that's what's weird. But let it go. In relation to the group of experts and the whole major party-support discussion, I would really like to hear a statement from the rapporteur as to whether the rapporteur's party is also prepared for us to actually follow up on the recommendations of the group of experts, and there were three recommendations on how to set up a new party-support system. I think it is really a pity that it has kind of gone into oblivion, and I think it would be obvious that on the other side of the Christmas holidays we took it up again. Is this something that the rapporteur's party is prepared for?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153155	In line with the consistent line, which I am pleased to Mr. Pelle Dragsted praises us for, in fact, in most areas it will be noted that the Radical Left believes the same before an election as after an election, in a government as outside a government, but leave it at that. We are always ready to discuss what we have not reached agreement on. What we have reached a compromise has been agreed on, and that is the way it is with this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153219	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153223	Thank you. I think it is quite an excellent proposal, for which there seems to be a majority, and on which I would like to make a few comments. First of all, I miss people in this country who dare to talk up the executive, people who dare to say: yes, there are advantages of sitting in government, yes, you get more influence from being a minister, and no, you go not only in government to get a fat ministerial pension or to get a ministerial post, but to change this country. I think it is absolutely terrible that the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives have now joined the government, because that means that they will have more power and more influence to change this country in a direction that I disagree with, but nevertheless I understand them. And I am full of admiration for the fact that they actually dare to speak up power, because I think that some of the things that are leading towards politics today are that we are spending so much time talking power down. I think we should stop doing that. Now I have heard the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party's rapporteur say a number of things and ask the question whether ministers can not be pulled in from outside, and then it is not certain that you should go into government when you are so few. Since I was a child, and now I'm not that old, I've seen the Danish People's Party ride freewheel, grow and grow and grow and time again stand outside the door of the Treasury without ever really dared to go in and take that responsibility. For me as a politician, it is an end in itself that you get in there where you decide, so you can change this country in a direction that you want to, and that it is not only the biggest parties who have the courage to do so. It is also the small parties, it is also the different parties, those who bring some new dreams, those who may have only been elected once, who should have the opportunity to do so, and they will not, if they cannot go into government as a party of 6,7, 8 or 9 seats, because then their parliamentary groups will become too small. Why is it a problem when the parliamentary groups become too small? Yes, it is, because then you cannot take care of your obligations as a legislative power. You can't control the executive, you can't control the government. They will be lacking in consultation, they will be missing in committee, they will be missing in debates in the country, they will be missing on television, they will be missing in the democratic conversation. And I really believe that we need to equip the democratic dialogue. That is why the SF's position from the outset has been the same as it is now, namely that, if it makes sense, small parties should of course go into government, on the basis of which they are based, and of course the parliamentary groups should not become so small that it is not possible to control the executive. That's why we're in complete agreement when it comes to this leave rule. We've always been. There will then be a lot of talk about this group support agreement, which has been negotiated at the same time. Sir. Pelle Dragsted says it's unpleasant to talk about. No, I was one of those people who suggested this. In the SF, we have been fighting for a long time to raise group support. It has not been regulated since the 1990s. And if we as parties are to have an earthly chance to control the government and to be a real and serious counterpart to the executive, we simply have to have some technical assistance. I'm 25 years old just to take an example. You can also enter without ever having read a book, so it is with a popular government, and you may need help. When a ceiling on cash benefits is adopted and hundreds of critical questions have to be asked, what is needed when you make such a law, yes, then you may need help. When an agricultural package is adopted on a rather subtle basis, where critical issues are needed, and one has never before dealt with the environment and food, yes, then one needs help. So, of course, we must strengthen the professional expertise in the parties. That only makes sense. That's why I really appreciate this today. For now we can employ people firmly to ask the critical questions, to make sure that the government gets more difficult to adopt the inequality-building policy that I think it is doing right now. So I'm totally behind this, and I don't think it's uncomfortable to talk about it. I think it is very important that we strengthen the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153647	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153652	I think I'll start by congratulating Mr. Jacob Mark for his courage. Well, I understand that Mr. Knox... Jacob Mark would like to have the Socialist People's Party into the government as soon as possible, and in view of the meltdown that occurred last time the Socialist People's Party went into government, I have to say that Mr. Jacob Mark is a brave man. I hope it's courage and doesn't end up being stupid, but the future has to show that. Now I understand that Mr. Jacob Mark is very concerned that more money is needed for the parties. Is Mr. Jacob Mark satisfied with the 52 million. kr., or could mr. In essence, does Jacob Mark wish for even more money for the Socialist People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153737	First of all, I would like to say: yes, I would like to have the SF back in government when there is a basis in which we can see ourselves. I have also heard that there have been long discussions about what the current government basis looks like, but when I look back on the fact that we made Denmark one of the greenest countries in Europe, and when I look back on the fact that we abolished poverty benefits, for example. the ceiling on cash benefits, e.g. What is the benefits of integration today, I do not look back with shame, because we helped to change Denmark in a more united direction. I'd like to do that again if we could. Then I just want to say that I think this is a good deal and that it's a good level. But some of the questions that Mr. Pelle Dragsted has raised on the basis of the committee of experts that has been there and some of the recommendations to create more transparency and to strengthen the parties so that they are not so dependent on private donations, I would find it exciting to continue working on. But I think this is an appropriate economic level. That is a real economic boost, and I stand by that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153828	Oh, yeah, 50 percent. plus. It is not every day that ordinary Danish employees experience an increase of 50%. In terms of salary. I guess you could say that. So it's a solid boost. But now the Socialist People's Party is not a party that is on the verge of making expensive proposals here in the Folketing and wishing everything well for all sorts of people. Well, how does Mr. Jacob Mark, really? Wasn't it really the case that these 52 million? kr. Perhaps in reality it could be more useful in the field of health care than in the pockets of politicians? I mean, money can't be used twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153904	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153906	Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party keeps comparing with elsewhere. In other words, the SF has so fairly continuously fought for more money to be spent in kindergarten, in schools, in hospitals, while the Danish People's Party's rapporteur has put both name and vote for great savings. So if the rapporteur doesn't just say this to score some cheap points, you actually cared about the Danish welfare, well, then you probably wouldn't have put the party name to the savings so many years in a row. Yes, I would like more money to be spent in kindergarten and in schools. We have also presented a plan for this at our summer group meeting. I am happy to tell you about it again, and until then I think it is very sensible to strengthen the Folketing so that we can keep an eye on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153945	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208153946	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very constructive rapporteur's speech, in which the rapporteur got around very well the important things that are precisely in that the Folketing is also there to control the government. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur to correct the fact that when the Danish People's Party sounds as if the millions go into the pockets of the Members of Parliament, it is not a personal salary. This is for administrative work, so that we can be more effective in monitoring what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154016-2	Well, I'm really glad about the politician thing. There are some who have said up here that this agreement can help to increase the political element. But what creates politicians is that they talk about technical assistance, as if we are now putting millions into spin doctors, or we are putting it here in our own pockets. That's creating politicians. This money's being spent on Mr. Knox's account. Ole Hvas, who sits up in my office and helps me ask critical questions to the Minister of Education. They will be used for our employment adviser, who will account for the new Minister for Employment for the consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits. They are used to drive Denmark in the direction that I think is right. It is not used to put in our own pockets, and when you talk about politics in this way, it is to inflate mistrust of politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154102	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154106	I would first like to acknowledge the fact that, on the basis of the group's recommendation for a review of the whole system of party support, we would like to discuss it further. I really think that is something we should address. I would just like to say a word about the rapporteur's introductory words about government participation: that is where the power lies, that is where it is decided: I hope we agree that the legislation is adopted here in the Folketing and that all of us who vote for a given legislative proposal help to take responsibility for it and that we have the power to table the amendments we want. After all, this is where the legislative power lies, and that is also where the power lies. I just think it's important to hold on to that. I'm so sick of that song about the engine room and about taking responsibility for power. Everyone who has been elected here has a huge responsibility and a power and an influence that we use every day. And then I just think that the picture of SF's results is completely fair, but it is also part of history that the government left a Denmark that was more unequal than the Denmark that was taken over; that the government left a Denmark where employees' rights were inferior than when they started. It's also part of the story.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154211	It's exciting to discuss SF's government involvement. I also think that there are things that we could have done better. I believe, for example, that it was a mistake to make a government base on a bourgeois economic policy, but these are the lessons you learn from when you seek power. In fact, I think we should change that in cooperation, hopefully. So to the question of where the power lies, and now I am teasing a little, but I also mean a little: I understand that a party that will probably never be part of the executive, and which does not have an interest in seeking it, has an interest in talking down the executive. But it takes up a lot. It is also too much if the rapporteur asks me. But when there is a college reform initiative, it is the Minister who has the right to serve; when there is an SU initiative where you want to cut the SU, it is the Minister who has the right to serve; when there is a ceiling on dual education, it is the Minister who has the right to serve. Then we're gonna sit first and get the shit out of it. Of course you have power and also the majority of power; there are government prerogatives when you are the executive. In fact, I do not quite understand why people are trying to talk it down, but I would like to talk about how we can strengthen the legislative power. That's why we're in this deal, because I think that's what you're doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154317	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154318	I don't really want to talk it down. I just think it's a strange story. We have just seen a government present a 2025 plan which that word for word had to throw into the trash because it could not get it through in the Folketing. It's just one example. Then I just want to deny this claim that Enhedslisten would not want to form a government. Of course we want it. That is what all parties are striving for. But of course we have learned from some of the experiences of other parties who have tried to do so. And I would like to say, like the rapporteur, that this presupposes that the government in which you enter actually drives Denmark in a better and not inferior direction from your own political point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154355	I agree that if you are going to go into government, it must be based on making Denmark a better place. I think that my last word should be that I do not really understand why the rapporteur says that the government has not got through any of its 2025 plan or that it is difficult, because some of the worst things that were in the 2025 plan are one of the things we are going to discuss over the next six months. Whether we like it or not, the rapporteur and I will probably not get through as much over the next few years as we would like, if it is still the bourgeois government that is in power, precisely because it is a bourgeois government. I think we should change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154429	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154439	Thank you for that, President. And I also enjoyed the previous exchange of views and discussion about whether SF had achieved results by sitting in government.I could understand there was a little difference of opinion about that. On the conservative side we made it very clear when these intergovernmental negotiations began that a starting point for us to be able to join a government was that we had to call alternates. It is quite true that the Conservative People's Party has had different views on the possibility of convening alternates, and I have also been confronted in the past with some very clear quotes from my former colleague in this Chamber. Helge Adam Møller. We lie down flat in the Conservative People's Party and say that we've changed our point of view over this matter. We haven't done that a million times, but we have changed our point of view. We are happy to admit that. But I will not be long in the situation we are in right now until I see the importance of being able to call alternates. For about a week we have had three Conservative Ministers and have thus been three men in the Conservative Parliamentary Group. And I was thinking a little bit about whether I should try to read all my rapporteurs to stress that there is much to be done when there are three members of parliament • whether we should be in the calendar or in committee posts, or what would have to be done, to prove that it is not sustainable to sit back three members of parliament. But I can say that after a week is not sustainable, because it means that we cannot take care of all the matters in the Chamber, we cannot be in all the committee meetings, we cannot take part in all the events of interest groups, in ministries and in all sorts of other places that we would like to see. I know that can be difficult when you are in a large party, but I just want to say that with three mandates it is absolutely impossible to do the parliamentary work. That is why it was a premise for us that we had to call in alternates, and that is why we are here today. It must also be said that there is a huge difference in everyday life as a member of parliament, depending on whether you belong to a large or a small party. In many ways I think it is easy for the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, to be so very sacred in relation to it when you belong to a party that has an independent post rapporteur. When you are newly elected by the Conservative People's Party, you come in and get 12-13 rapporteurs. And I am not neglecting being a post rapporteur; it is probably extremely exciting when you negotiate a postal settlement in place, but the rest of the days I doubt that you are as busy as you are when you have 13 rapporteurs. It doesn't change the fact that every role as a member of parliament is important and that you have to fill everyday life meaningfully, but the difference is just very big. Therefore, the difference is also very great, compared to how much assistance you need. For it is clear that if you are only the post rapporteur I think that you are also the rapporteur for the Faroe Islands you have quite a lot of time to research all the elements of the postal negotiations you are about to start. But if you are a parliamentarian in a group where you have 13 rapporteurs, then you sit and negotiate big deals all the time not just once every four years, you do all the time. And when you are a small group, you also have limited staff resources. It is not the case that you have one employee who sits dedicated and only works with energy, for example. The skilled woman we have working on energy is also working on ten other policy areas. It is quite simply necessary because we are so small a party. I have tried many times to sit as rapporteur to ministers, where I sit one man on one side of the table, and then there is a seven-man team over there on the other side of the table. If I am to be able to give qualified counter-play to the seven-man team sitting on the other side, then we also need to have proper resources for assistance. We actually said before the parliamentary elections that if we were to find ourselves in a situation where we would be part of a government after the elections, we would consider convening alternates. We said that to our electorate before the elections, and that is what we are asking for the opportunity to do now. Then there's been a little discussion about this, whether you really get more votes. The DF's rapporteur has spoken a great deal in favour of having to call in some others. We must, for example, turn Mrs Connie Hedegaard into a minister. But if that was the solution that was used, then we still got 9 votes away rather than 6 votes. After all, nothing has changed in relation to that. If you went in and said that those who became ministers dropped their mandate, yes, then alternates came in anyway, and then we still had 9 votes. It does not alter the fact that we are maximising our verbal expression, that we are calling for alternates rather than resigning. All in all, I can measure up to the agreement we have made, both in terms of convening alternates, but also in terms of strengthening technical assistance. And, by the way, it is not at 50%, as the rapporteur for DF said, it is at 40%.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154941	We shall now turn to a few brief points. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208154945	Now the rapporteur was relatively open that the Conservative People's Party has changed its position, and the Conservative People's Party certainly has, but then I am very interested to hear: why has the Conservative People's Party changed its position? Then I should just remind Mrs Mette Abildgaard that the Danish People's Party actually started here in the Danish Parliament by having four members to cover all the same work as they were six members of Mrs Mette Abildgaard, right? So, the Danish People's Party has also started in small. So I cannot help but draw the attention of Mrs Mette Abildgaard to the fact that Mr. Henrik Brodersen, whom I thought Mrs Mette Abildgaard mentioned a little bit patronizing, thus performing a large number of tasks for the Danish People's Party in addition to the tasks outlined by Mrs Mette Abildgaard, among others. as a member of the Nordic Council, as far as I remember. So I think you should hold the cadence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155053	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155054	I shall not be able to say why, in Helge Adam Møller's time, people were opposed to me reading his rapporteur's speech, just as everyone else has been able to do so, but I have been able to argue why we, the Conservatives, want to be able to reinstate this alternative option today. We made it clear to our electorate before the elections, and our electorate has known what they got when they voted for the Conservative People's Party. So in this way, I can fully stand up to our voters for our actions in this matter. I'm really sorry if Mr. Knox... Kenneth Kristensen Berth got the impression that I referred to his colleague condescendingly, because that was not my purpose. However, on the Danish People's Party's website I have been able to read an overview of the rapporteur's work, and there I could see that he was a post rapporteur, and then I think that the Faroe Islands were also specifically included. I do not remember the Nordic Council standing there, but if that is the case, then I am sorry. But nevertheless, I hope that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth agrees with me that there is a difference between one's tasks in a small party and one's tasks in a large party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155154	Of course, I agree with the latter. However, I must also say that in the large parties there are a great many members of parliament who are actively involved in the work of the committees in addition to the areas for which they are rapporteurs. And that's what I think you should accept and take your hat off for them to do. I think I know why the Conservatives have changed their minds anyway. That is because this proposal now benefits the Conservatives, and then we have to see if the Conservatives are changing their position on the day the Conservatives are again a big party. But is it not true, I would ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard, that this is actually the motivation, that the proposal is now of benefit to the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155230	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155232	Clearly, when the Conservative People's Party is in favour of this proposal, it is because it will benefit the situation we are in. It will benefit our ability to act and exert influence, just as it would benefit the SF or the Radical Left if they were to find themselves in that situation. But as long as we have decided to have a democracy in which we have a threshold as low as it is, and we have a Danish democracy with as many small parties as we have it is something special Danish, and that is actually something particularly valuable we are in order to protect it also need to provide the opportunity to call alternates.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155306	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155307	Now I was also going to tease the rapporteur a little with a number of old quotes. It was not only Helge Adam Møller, but actually the Conservative People's Party, which at the time produced a report condemning in very sharp terms this opportunity to call alternates. I also think it is quite obvious that the change in attitude is due to the fact that Conservatives have become a smaller party than at the time, and I think that there is reason to place more emphasis on that. And that's the way it is. What I just hope will be Conservatives' concern is that you will stick to it and not change your position again, if it is going to go Conservatives' better things go up and down for all of us. Because I think that would be quite inconvenient. But I would really like to ask one thing that has to do with the Conservatives wanting this opportunity. It was a little difficult to find a majority for this because the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats rejected it. Then this solution comes by linking it with more support for the parties. But I would like to hear there: if we had not had to vote for the second, would the Conservative rapporteur have preferred to make an isolated agreement, that is to say only on this alternate option, and that, if I may say so, there should be no higher party support?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155421	Let me start by saying that it is of course important that the Conservative People's Party has become a smaller party. Then we can better understand what the workload is. It's self-evident. I certainly hope that one day we will be a great party, but I also hope that we will maintain the same principle in this matter. I fully agree with that. There may be someone who in 20 years' time is being held my quotes and gets really tired of me saying that. But that's the way it has to be. For the Conservative People's Party, it was not the starting point for making an agreement that it should be linked to party support. We had a problem that we should have solved, and that, for us, was the starting point for these discussions. We can fully stand at the end of the agreement with which the party support was also drawn in.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155502	But if we had been able to secure a majority without linking these two things, would the Conservative People's Party have preferred it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155517	But such a majority did not exist. The possibility of such a majority was checked and there was no such majority. We're glad it could be done with this clutch, and we can fully stand at the goal of the deal it ended up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155530	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then we go to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, Mr von der Vring. Søren Gade, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208155536	Thank you. Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Jacob Mark's post. It's very inspiring. As far as what was said in the rapporteur's speech itself is concerned, I can vouch for it. The proposal has largely been examined. There's one thing I want to read, and it's addressed to mr. Pelle Dragsted, because there was a little uncertainty in Mr. Pelle Dragsted about what it really is about: Parties elected to the Danish Parliament with a voter's connection of 10%. or less, at the time of the formation of any government, may convene alternates of appointed ministers of the party concerned during the period of appointment of the member of the Folketing concerned as Minister. So there's a political agreement 10 per cent. or less to make it quite clear. To the arguments for calling alternates: I fully agree with what the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, said. It is therefore a condition for the Conservatives to go into government. I should just like to make a few comments. I have been in the Folketing years ago, I have been out of the Folketing, and I was a member of the Left when we were over 50 Members here at one time and having a sub-rapporteurship was something for which to say thank you. I came back in a parliamentary group, which went from 47 to 34 seats, and then a number of ministers were withdrawn, so we were 20 in the parliamentary group. 20 in the parliamentary group are many compared to other parties, and yet when I came back and became group chairman, I saw how busy we really were with the 20 seats. I have given many lectures about being in the Folketing, and those who have heard it can at least confirm that I always expressed a huge respect for the smaller parties in the Folketing, a huge respect for the fact that, with relatively few mandates, we should perform the same tasks as we should with, for example, over 50 parliamentary mandates in the Left when we were the largest. For there are 25 standing committees in the Folketing. And I would like to stand by and understand that the Conservatives had a demand that if they were to be in government, they would call their alternates, because there are three members of a parliamentary group who are to hold 25 standing committees, while at the same time they have to look after the hinterland, and only with the three alternates who come in, it is in my optics almost an incalculable task. I am therefore in favour of small parties being prevented from taking power in the Folketing and taking ministerial positions because they are unable to carry out the many other tasks that go with them. And I agree with Mrs Mette Abildgaard and others who have said that it must not be the case that, when we have a democracy that we have in Denmark with a 2% threshold, and have very many small parties in the Folketing, it is precisely the number of members of the parliamentary group who discourage each party from going in and taking the influence that comes with being a minister. And I fully agree with Mr. Jacob Mark in that what a politician is striving for is to gain the power in his party that makes one have access to the ministries. I agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that it is down here that we adopt the legislation, but it does not change it, that it gives a certain influence to sit with the keys to the car and have, what should I say, the right to serve when you have the power of government. It was indicated that exactly the membership support was just something that came as if it were something we were doing in an hour or two. Let me say to that that the very challenge of alternates came into the intergovernmental negotiations, and it became my lot, since I belong to the governing party that was to have an agreement. The very thing about the support for Members is not something that is new. I think so, sir. Jacob Mark, Mrs Karen J. Klint and Mrs Mette Abildgaard can confirm this because we have been working on it for a long time. I think we started work in January because some of us felt that there really was a need for increased membership support. Then I would like to say that I am well aware that this is not a popular matter, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also swarmed about it, but it is just that if you look at other parliaments and at developments, you will see what it is that the individual parties have to stand up to and that a great deal has happened since the Olsen Committee, as a former Social Democratic minister, was very farsighted in 1995, and Olsen did so in the light of the fact that it was another world that was at that time. The world has also evolved since 1995. There has been social media and there is an expectation that the individual members of the parties will respond to the many, many hundreds of requests that come out on social media. TV 2 NEWS has arrived, which has a deadline every 15 minutes or all the time. There have been plenty of free newspapers and there are major events in which there is an expectation of parties participating. I stand here and say that as a representative of a large party, and the task is not less for small parties. So I also think I can measure the 40 per cent increase, although I am aware that it is a difficult matter to explain out among some of them, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is referring to. However, I would like to say that we have a democracy in Denmark, and we cannot say that we have Members elected to the Danish Parliament who represent the pharmaceutical industry, the car industry or other industries. That is something that other countries' parliaments have. One of the reasons why we do not have it is that, after all, we somehow support the individual members of the Folketing. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at our fellow Members sitting in the European Parliament, you will find that they have up to three or four people around them to help the individual. If we look at the members of parliament, we see that most of them each have barely one employee to help them. I certainly believe that, as others have said, there is reason to look at whether that is enough and whether individual parties can actually match the ministries and the large business organisations. And it is with the background that I can also stand by the goal of changing the rules of support for Members of Parliament so that it increases. So, with those comments, the Left can support the proposal that lies there and it is about the call for alternates. And then I have mentioned what follows: an increase in support for Members of Parliament, which is something that we have to deal with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, 5 minutes after the debate on this motion for a resolution has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160223	Thank you. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160226	Thank you to the rapporteur. And, in fact, thank you for the honesty, because I understand on the Left that the reason why the Left has changed its position in relation to what the Left has meant so far is that the Conservative People's Party will be accommodated. Then I just have to ask quite quietly: when this process is over and there comes a new government I hope there will not be a new non-citizen government for the time being, but perhaps at some point or when the Conservative People's Party grows to get over 10%. of the votes, or what do I know, is the Left ready to change the rules back to what we otherwise agreed they should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160310	In 2005, my party helped to abolish the leave scheme that had been used under former Prime Minister Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. I have at no time in my career either until I left politics, or after I came back, pleaded that you shouldn't have a leave scheme. I am strongly in favour of small parties being able to call their alternates. I will not dare to say what the position will be of the majority of my party at a later stage, but I can assure the rapporteur, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, in order that if it is up to me, I will change the arrangement if there comes a red government that has exactly the same problem as the Conservatives are facing today. I would still like to give my full support to the fact that Mr. Jacob Mark's party, if they needed it, could call their alternates, that is, if the Socialist People's Party chose to join a socialist government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160403	We then take note of that, and we are sorry about that in the Danish People's Party. I will not hide it from you because I and the Danish People's Party thought that we made a good deal there in 2005. However, we must take note of this and note that times are changing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160423	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160429	Thank you. In relation to whether it is a public matter to raise this support, I would say that I think it would have been a more popular matter if it had been made more open and transparent and with the involvement of, for example, the discussion here about also creating more openness about the parties' economy and the support we receive from private donors and others. In fact, I think that is something that the people are pretty concerned about, and that is why it is also so annoying to me that the two debates have been separated. Then there's another thing. The former rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, said that there was no majority in favour of implementing this leave scheme without, in other words, increasing group support. Can the rapporteur of the Left confirm this? And what is this party that supports the current agreement and that would not support it unless they were given money for the parties? Because I think that's a little interesting information.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160527	I cannot confirm that, because that is how I was in contact with several parties, including, by the way, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Pelle Dragsted's party. At the time of the agreement, it was sent to all parties. I'm not a complete idiot, it didn't surprise me that it ended up in one of the morning's magazines, and it was based on the idea that if it can't stand to see the light of day, it shouldn't have been made. So, of course, all parties, including the parties that we knew were not directly interested in entering into the agreement, were sent the agreement when it was finished. And it's true that it was at night, but it just wasn't finished before. So this is due only to the fact that it was at the time it was finished. And we had to have an agreement on the call for alternates ready, because it was part of the government base. But I can't confirm this with the fact that I started calling around and had to make an appointment for alternates and then pulled the other one with. It simply became part of the package because it was something we had been working on, and the group chairmen of those parties will be able to confirm that it was not invented for the occasion we had been working on it for a long time. One can almost be completely surprised, yes, gladly surprised that it has actually been possible to sit with it for almost a year and that no one has heard of it, because those people have actually worked with a real problem and then been able to keep close to it. It's not like you have a habit in this thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160650	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160651	I think I would have seen greater openness as something sensible. But let me ask you this quite frankly, because what you have almost read out of the press coverage is that the Social Democrats were not willing to support, that Conservatives could call alternates unless this agreement was linked to party support. That is the one question: can the rapporteur confirm that this is where it is buried? The second question is: where should the money come from? Because I don't really think that's what it says. I mean, these 52 million. kr. I guess I'm gonna have to come from somewhere. Should they be taken from something else, or where do they come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160731	I cannot confirm the consistency with the agreement made with the Social Democratic Party. I would like to emphasise that. It is not surprising, therefore, that it will only have to be dealt with here in a few minutes' time in the UFO, and it is not surprising that it will be in the Ministry of Finance that we will have to find the money we need. And then we'll have to see how many it is. It is therefore a cost of 52 million. kr., if all of the Danish Parliament's parties choose to apply for this expert contribution, and we don't yet know if they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160758	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161208160811	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 9 December 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
