ParlaMint-DK_20160408100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and others.: Bill No. L 170 (Proposal for a law on compliance with parliamentary decisions). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Bill No. L 171 (Proposal for a law setting up a rapid-working study group on the fire in Star Stars). Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 176 (Proposal for a Parliament decision to increase the base allowance for cottage rental). Jonas Dahl (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 177 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of local and regional citizens' initiative and local referendums). Thomas Danielsen (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Henrik Brodersen (DF), Christian Juhl (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Nikolaj Amstrup (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond (SIU), Magni Arge (T) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF): Request no. F 33 (What can the Prime Minister tell us about the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community as a follow-up to his statement on the Commonwealth 2016?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Laura Lindahl (LA) and others President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 168 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social credit cards). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408100159	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408100311	The debate is open. This is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408100342	All children deserve a good start to life. Unfortunately, however, some children have really bad conditions in relation to other children in order to get a good start to life. They grow up in parents' families where there are so many problems that it may be necessary to place them outside the normal parental and family framework. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that, as a society, we have a special responsibility precisely to this group of children. We must create as secure a framework as possible for them. We need to create a framework where some people care about them. All children and young people need a close and secure relationship with caring adults. Children and young people brought in have the same rights as all other children and young people. They do, for example. the right to privacy, they have the right to co-determination in their daily lives and, above all, they have the right to care and protection, that some take care of them and some take care of them and ensure that they thrive and develop. The obligation to ensure children's rights shall then be transferred from parents to staff at the place of placement or to a foster family when a child is placed outside the home. Therefore, it is essential that there are clear rules on what foster families and what personnel at the places of placement may and may not do when caring for the children and young people in care. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, and a great many of those who have been employed have also been very frustrated by this. There are considerable grey areas where it is unclear to what extent a child or a young person must be retained: can they be taken from one room to another if there are problems? There are a great many difficult dilemmas which are about finding a balance between respecting the child's freedoms on the one hand and at the same time safeguarding the interests of the child in a situation where, for example, it is a situation in which the child's rights are respected. may be a danger to oneself or others. This is, of course, a situation that most parents know from home, and it is never easy to assess how to deal with it. And it doesn't get any easier when you, as an employee at a location, are in such a situation and have to make a decision on the spot. It is therefore quite unreasonable that there have not been very clear guidelines to rely on as a staff or a foster family. At the same time, it is clear that the use of force should of course only be used in those situations where it is necessary. The use of force must never be something that replaces the general care and educational support that is essential for the development of children and young people. There is a huge difference between children and young people. There are children six years of age who are temporarily outside the home and who do not have the major, serious social problems. You gotta take care of them. There are certain ways to raise. You also know from home that there is a very big difference between having a 6-year-old and a 16-year-old. At the other end of this, there are also 16-year-olds who are fighting with very major social problems and also with psychological problems and who need very special care and educational support. Then there are those I have mentioned earlier on the radio today in the secured institutions where we are dealing with relatively hardened criminals with tattoos right up to their ears. The whole spectrum must somehow be able to embrace that legislation, which is why we have spent a great deal of time debating it between the parties. We've had a lot of people in here, we've had a lot of analyses over. It has been a very thorough piece of work that is the basis for making rules that should be able to embrace, that these are so diverse situations that you are faced as a teacher at placement sites or as a foster family. The foster families and staff will then have to deal with every conceivable situation from young children who let their tempers run away and throw the bribe at the dinner table, to young people who do harm to themselves and, at worst, try to commit suicide. I just mention these things and how diverse they are and how complex the issues are in the course of a day at the placement site, to stress why you as an employee can be in doubt about how to deal with the situation you are facing and why it is not so simple to make very clear guidelines. There have been examples of work where employees have had doubts as to whether they should intervene in situations where children have obviously done damage to themselves and have left the location. Of course, they have done so because it is the only right thing to do and because that is how most people will react in the situation. However, it is not acceptable that the regulatory framework has been so inadequate that doubts of this kind can arise at all, and that is why the legislative framework has simply not been good enough. It also happens that children or young people run away from their places of placement. There may be many different reasons for this, and in most cases the child returns either by himself or because he has had a dialogue with the staff or the foster family. Originally, it was intended that the teaching staff should be responsible for bringing the child or young person home. That's when we put the brakes in. It is simply a matter of ensuring that the staff are not put at risk in order to bring a child back. We must be very sharp in our distinction between when it is an educational task and when it is a police task. Whether we've made the smartest incision in the world, I don't know. I think it was the smartest thing we could come up with, and then we will have to look at it through an evaluation whether we have landed correctly. At any rate, we have created a clear framework for this, and I think it is important that we face up to the fact that there are situations where it is not a good idea that it is the teaching staff who have to carry out what I and we consider to be police tasks. The staff should not put themselves at risk, and they should be able to get help from the police in situations where there is a risk of escalating a conflict, but also in situations where there is a risk of simply destroying the educational work they are doing, because the trust between the young person and the employee educator at the placement site is being destroyed by having to go into some rather violent incidents with each other. So it is important that we also get a cut between when it is the work of the social educator and when it is the work of the police. And there I think we have landed very well, and I am very pleased that we have been able to have very thorough discussions on it and that we have also been able to find each other about it. After all, the bill also translates the part of the 2016 rate pool that is about creating a clear framework for the use of force against children and young people placed in care. The aim of this bill is to clarify and clarify, as is the second draft law, when power must be used against children and young people. And that must help in the daily work of children and young people. At the same time, it will also allow for critical reflection and learning that is beneficial both to the responsible adults and to children. I believe that the draft law here clarifies the whole idea, which is why it strengthens the legal certainty of both children and young people on the one hand, and it is an important self-evident point that their legal certainty is strengthened, but that on the other hand we also strengthen legal certainty, but also the ability to tackle the everyday situation of the staff involved in the children and young people we are talking about and the very different groups we are talking about. We have had a debate today about what the media have chosen to focus on, namely the secured institutions. It is of course also most colorful, so I can understand the choice of angle on whether we should have gone further in the discussions on body search on the secured institutions. To that I would say that I believe we have found a very good balance. This is something we have spent a very long time discussing with each other. I was one of those who shouted very carefully, and that is to say that some of the criticism that comes today is so much directed at social democracy, not least because it was one of our sticking horses in the negotiations that we did not go too far. To this I would say that it is important and crucial for us that we can prevent weapons coming in and mobile phones entering secure institutions at great risk for the safety of other young people and for staff. As far as mobile phones are concerned, it is simply a question of investigations being carried out which cannot be destroyed by the introduction of mobile phones. There's a possibility of using a metal detector. So when it comes to the proposal that people should be able to walk in behind a curtain, the children or young people have to take off their clothes in order to search the clothes, we just have to be aware that it can be done with a metal detector. So if they're weapons or cell phones, a metal detector can do the same. As far as the drugs are concerned, I know that we are not used to talking about such things from the Parliament's platform, but you can hide them on your body without needing your clothes. That is how you do it in other types of prisons, and that is to say, it is an illusion if you think that getting a young person to go behind a curtain and take off their clothes can prevent them from being addicts. If it was so easy to stop a young person from being an addict that you just had to send them behind a curtain, I would like to say that there were a few drug addicts from Istedgade who would take the trip behind the curtain if it were that easy. You don't stop being an addict by taking your clothes off when you have to get back into a secure institution. That's the first thing. The second point is that even highly secured prisons, which turn the inside out completely on the people who are inmates, do not prevent drugs from entering. So we have to face up to the fact that it is not possible to create a completely bulletproof system in relation to getting drugs in and out of some of the safe institutions. That doesn't mean we shouldn't do anything. Of course we must, and we have taken a step further in this legislation, but the main thing for us as Social Democrats is that we find the fine balance between, on the one hand, securing staff and other inmates in relation to not being subjected to violence and assault, and, on the other hand, ensuring that mobile phones are not used to destroy the investigation, and, on the other hand, that the problem of abuse is a completely separate and separate issue, where, when it comes to the abuse of drugs in prisons, it is about getting rid of the abuse. After all, it is about getting around it and getting young people the right offers to get rid of the abuse problems they have. So it's just to make it clear that the level we've set is one step up compared to the previous one. I think that is quite right, also in view of some of the attacks that have been made on other types of institutions. So far, so good. But we should not go further than that either, because it is an illusion that it will help. However, the Social Democratic Party can of course support both proposals and welcomes the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408101352	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408101405	In the public debate, which has been going on continuously over recent years and also before we started making these two legislative proposals, the term 'force use' has often been used. I would say that in the course of the negotiations on the specific content of the legislative proposals and also in the many negotiations we had between the parties, also when we came to the pool negotiations, I would say that was not actually the expression we used. We did not use much power, but we talked more about what is called adult responsibility and adult care. Some may say, "Well, isn't that the same thing? ' But I clearly understood that when we sat together a great many parties, it was actually something that mattered that we prioritise what we called what we were talking about, namely adult responsibility and adult care. There is no doubt that it is good for a child or a young person, whether you live with your own parents or are placed, that there are some guidelines to consider that there is a training that affects you and hopefully in a positive direction. If those guidelines are unclear, they often create a social environment that is not optimal for any party. When you are a child or a young person outside your own home, there are often many factors that affect your behavior and behaviour. There are many things that can affect your development, and there can often be something in your mind that can be difficult to handle. That is why there has also been political agreement to create a clearer framework for how things can and must be done. There has been doubt about this, precisely: what must be done, and what should not be done as an employee, for example. in a place of residence? And young people have also been in doubt about their legal certainty. There must be no doubt that children and young people have some fundamental rights, among others. as a result of the Constitution. However, situations may arise where the child or young person is in a difficult situation and where it may be difficult to understand the consequences of the actions being carried out. Therefore, it may also be necessary for an adult to assume responsibility and ensure that nothing inappropriate happens. Here the Danish People's Party believes that it is a matter of caring for the child, even if it may be necessary to take hold of him or her. Of course, we must not resort to this in time and prematurely, I would say, but it must be the last resort and, of course, it must always be done in what is called a trusting atmosphere. Since it has been shown that over the years there has been actually a fairly high degree of uncertainty and doubt as to what can and must not be done as an employee at a place of placement in the daily work of children and young people placed in care, there has been a desire to create a more clear framework for adult responsibility in which it is clear when you can intervene, including with physical intervention, which we have also just discussed. But I also think that when we talk about physical intervention, it is important that in the texts that have been prepared and in the comments we have been very concerned about the fact that there is something called physical guidance, which may not be so dramatic, but which should actually be seen as helping the child or young person concerned. It must then be done by clarifying the rules that exist today so that all the parties concerned are aware of what is precisely within the framework of the legislation. It is a question, among other things, of course. on some of what we also heard from the previous rapporteur about detention, defensive aid, investigation of persons, short-term detention and expulsion. Another area that we have discussed in depth is registration and reporting. Here it is clearly the Danish People's Party's hope that the clear guidelines will make it clear to everyone what should be reported and what should not be reported and how to do it, i.e. how it should actually be handled, so that it does not end up being too bureaucratic either. When the law is about to work around the places of employment in Denmark and hopefully also turns out to be a very good tool in the daily work there, it is also very important that the people who are in the municipal civil service as well as those in the political work are aware of the content of the law. Of course, when I say the law, it should be understood that this is not just about the text contained in the legislative proposal itself, but also about the rich comments that go with the draft law. In addition, a guide is also prepared which sets out the link between rights and interventions, an information material targeted at children and young people and their parents, and also a teaching material targeted at placement sites. The fact that all these things are being done has been very much in the minds of the Danish People's Party, as we believe that this is precisely what must ensure that we can see some improvements in the future. We would not want to find ourselves in a situation where, shortly after the entry into force of the law, we find that there is no knowledge of the law, of the legal notes, of the guidance and of the additional materials. Unfortunately, this has been the case in the past, which is why the Danish People's Party also expects the Minister to clearly inform all parties about the existence of these very materials. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that we now adopt the bill and that hopefully we will also get some feedback that around the places of placement, among children and young people who are placed, and also their families will see that this is a clear improvement. Hopefully, we will also have some tools to follow it, so that in two years' time, when we're going to evaluate this legislation, we can see if there are some things we might need to go in to prioritise or change. We are not pale to look at this, because this has actually been a negotiation process that the Danish People's Party has been very, very concerned about, i.e. to ensure that it brought some significant improvements. And that is what we hope will apply here in the future. That's why we're looking forward to it. We will not just wait until two years to evaluate it, but we will actually follow this continuously, and we also hope, of course, that there will be a good dialogue with exactly the field that is about to act according to the legislation we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408102038	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408102056	The two previous rapporteurs have already familiarised us with both the purpose and the content of the two legislative proposals we are discussing. I think they have illustrated very well the diversity of the approach to legislative preparation. And in that light, I think it is nice to note the broad support there is. However, as they do, I would like instead to point out that the legislative proposals provide on an important element of the government's basis, namely the desire to clarify the rules in the light of the work of the Committee on Power Use. In addition, as you know, the proposals translate into a clear framework of adult responsibility for children and young people placed in care, which received broad support in November. So far, this possibility has been widely used, and no one can live with it. This has been the case, among other things. Because the rules to date have been unclear or, at least, have been interpreted differently. We are now dealing with this problem too. Against this background, the Left supports the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408102215	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sara Glerup from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408102242	When you read the introduction to the draft law on adult responsibility for children and young people placed in care, you are liable for terms such as day-to-day care, rights and legal security. Unfortunately, it is Enhedslisten's assessment that these legislative proposals do not deliver either, on the contrary. They open up to use more power against children and young people in positions of responsibility. They create new legal grey areas where staff have to make great estimates and they confuse the use of force with adult responsibility, care and pedagogy. In the legislative proposals there are some positive elements that Enhedslisten can support. We welcome the fact that the places of residence have the legal basis for determining the order of the house, which must be known to all, and comply with the conventions. We are also pleased with the proposal for a more standardised registration and reporting of the use of force; these two things will create more transparency, less arbitrariness and better legal certainty. We are pleased that funds have been set aside for teaching material in connection with the implementation of the law, although we would have preferred the money not to be financed by the sick and the unemployed via the rate pool. Finally, we are pleased that the law will have to be evaluated after two years. But then our enthusiasm stops. Danske Handicaporganisationer writes in their hearing answer: There is always reason to be vigilant when the rules of force application are proposed to be extended. And they'll be expanded with these bills. The new rules on the use of force include:: short-term physical retention of children and young people; there is no upper time limit for what is short-term; tightening children and young people with disabilities with fabric belts, if you consider that they will otherwise be injured, has not defined the upper time limits; using power against children and young people if you consider that they will do damage, not to persons, but to things like IKEA glass; browsing children and young people at safe places for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Considers that they might run away. All these new initiatives are about using more power against children and young people placed in care... not one of them is about preventing power from becoming necessary to use. There are a lot of estimates in these drafts, and estimates do not contribute to more clear rules. The legislative proposals introduce such a completely new category of what is called less intrusive use of force, which thus covers short-term retention, fabric belts and expulsion. These measures of power are defined as part of daily care and should therefore neither be recorded nor reported. It is going to mute the gap between what is power and what is care, and it creates a new grey area where the staff will have to stand and make new great estimates: is it now power that we have to register, or is it care? And how are we to protect ourselves against a slippery path when one type of use of force is not listed anywhere at all? Last but not least, the children and young people have placed poor complaints. In most cases the reports go to the municipality. However, in the municipality there are no prerequisites for dealing with the issue of legal guarantees. It helps a little that the Ankestyrelsen and, in some cases, a court can come into the picture, but they will only come long after these uses of force have taken place, and just exactly placed children and young people have hardly the best conditions for navigating themselves in a complicated complaints system. Therefore, Enhedslisten proposes that at least an outreach, unannounced monitoring of the use of force be set up, involving the children and young people in their visit. There are important organisations such as the National Federation of Social Pedagogues, the Danish Social Advisor Association, the Children's Conditions, the FOA and Danske Handicap organisations, which are very concerned that these bills will lead to more use of force, more grey areas and that power will be camouflaged as care or consideration for children and young people. If we drop the new language for a moment, this is not a draft law on adult responsibility for children and young people placed in care, but it is a draft law on the use of force against children and young people placed in care, children and young people who have often experienced neglect and violence in the home, and for them the exact use of force can be extra traumatic. This can counteract educational efforts by creating mistrust and escalating conflicts. The Danish Social Advisor Association warns against the fact that more use of force will cause more placements to collapse. The FOA points out that there is a direct link between the extent of power used and acts of violence. More use of force leads to more violence, both against employees and between young people. There is an equally direct link between the use of force and staff standards. If there is a shortage of trained personnel, resources and time, the use of force will be the fastest and cheapest solution, but that is only in the short term. In the long term, legitimising and opening up to more use of force, as these draft laws do, is a really expensive solution. Because there is no one who, by violence, force and coercion, can bring up a human being to become a democratic citizen. If we want to help vulnerable children and young people out of bad social patterns and spirals, if we want to help them to seek dialogue and compromises and to treat other people with care and respect at all, then we must meet them ourselves with the same dialogue, the same thought and the same respect. We need to show them that there are alternatives that make violence and power superfluous. Children can be bodily, and children with trauma can certainly be particularly impossible, and of course we will never quite avoid situations where the use of force is the last and only way out, but we can and we must do everything we can to prevent the use of force from ever occurring. According to the National Association of Social Pedagogues, over 4,000 cases of force are reported against children and young people placed in care every year. That is far too many, and these legislative proposals open up even more, many of which do not have to be reported at all. In no way can Enhedslisten support this. Instead, we urge the parties to the agreement to listen to the many worried organisations and to reduce the use of force, but in return for the pedagogy which prevents the use of force from ever becoming necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103008	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a question from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103014	Thank you. I sensed with Enhedslisten's rapporteur such a certain ridicule about the smashing of IKEA glass. But if we imagine a situation where there is a young person who is asked to empty the dishwasher and does not bother it, and who, like a reflex, takes all the IKEA glasses, and what may be of other brands of cutlery and mugs etc., and bulls on the floor, does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that the adult staff present should simply pull on the shoulder and say: Well, you are probably in a bad mood today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103051	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103052	I don't think there will be much pedagogy in pulling on the shoulder and saying: Well, you're probably just in a bad mood today. In principle, I do not think that the use of force is ever a very good solution. We must bear in mind that these are not children who have busy parents who must hurry to get them to bed so that they can prepare for the teaching of the school where they work etc. These are vulnerable children who are placed in placements with staff who would like to have the resources and time to talk about things and take care of things, so that these incidents do not occur at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103128	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103129	I agree that these are vulnerable young people, and I also agree that staff need to have some tools to draw on the training they have. But I actually sense a certain distrust on the part of Enhedslisten that the staff are using their skills before they resort to this compulsion. There is Enhedslisten's rapporteur and I then agreed that we should drop that new language. But does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not recognise that, of course, staff will use the tools at their disposal first and not go directly to the use of force?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103200	Yes, I do. We certainly recognise the skills of the staff, and that is also why we are really concerned when exactly the National Federation of Social Pedagogues and the FOA and also the Danish Social Advisor Association say that they think it is a problem that there is no clear distinction between care and the use of force in this bill. That is what they themselves say in their hearing answer, and that is actually why we are particularly concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103225	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103233	We are today the first-reading law on adult responsibility for children and young people in care. At the outset, I thought it was misleading that the Minister insisted on calling it adult responsibility rather than the use of force, as it is basically, and one day I asked her why we could not just call it the use of force, also to make sure that we do not forget that this is really what it is all about and not to forget the legal certainty of young people. She replied to me that to her it was about much more than sober legal basis in a law to use force. Overall, it was about how we create the absolutely best conditions to be able to provide the right care for children and young people, and therefore it is about total adult responsibility and not individual cases of force use. I actually thought that was a very good point of view, and it is also my approach to negotiating this whole process. That is the right way to look at it. I think it is very, very important that we should clarify the rules in this area, not only for the workers who work with children and young people in care, but also for the children and young people who are themselves placed. A clear set of rules supports that the staff at the placement sites do not exceed their powers towards a child or a young person, and at the same time we ensure that the employee does not fail to provide adequate care for fear of exceeding their powers. During our study trip earlier this year, we visited a location for mentally damaged girls. The principal told us a story about a few weeks before we arrived, a 13-year-old girl had offered herself over the Internet, and three men came in a car to pick her up at the location. They stopped the 13-year-old girl so she didn't get in the car with these three men and drove away. It was an illegal use of force! I think it is fundamentally absurd to put employees in a situation where one should choose between breaking the law or caring for a child as the situation was in this case. Fortunately, there were no staff who at this time hesitated to break the law and take care, but I think it is gratifying that we can now make sure that they no longer break the law because they are making the right decision. Having said that, we must, of course, make every effort to prevent it. It's deeply unfortunate that a girl is so hurt that at 13 years of age she is offering herself online to men. After all, we must do everything we can to prevent this, and we are doing so. According to Section 7 of the bill, there are already a lot of fundamental guidelines in relation to what comes before the use of force, so we have taken care of that. Overall, I think it is important that employees have the necessary tools to ensure the well-being of the children and young people who have been placed, and I think that is what we are doing with these two legislative proposals. After all, the hearings are generally positive. Several people point out that there has been a need for clear rules in this area and, of course, the challenge has been to set the cut so that we have the necessary tools without violating the legal certainty of children and young people, and here I think we have landed a very good place, where we have made a number of extensions, but at the same time ensured legal certainty. That's why the Liberal Alliance is supporting these two laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103614	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103625	Thank you. In Denmark there are many children whose upbringing is characterized by such great failure that they have to be placed outside the home. This means that foster families or staff in institutions will be responsible for providing children and young people with the security and upbringing that is so important for a good life. The legislation we are discussing today is about giving caregivers, foster families and staff the best opportunities to create a home for housed children, which is as much like a so-called normal home as possible, and here I would like to acknowledge that there are many opportunities to make different forms of safe homes and a safe upbringing. There are, of course, many things at stake, but the present legislation addresses some of the hardest things, namely those situations where you have to apply power to children and young people. It could be if they're smashing a TV. It could be if they're escaping from a location. It could be if they're getting into a fight with someone else. There are many who believe that the rules have not been clear enough for the time being, and that is why there are foster families, educators, employees and interest groups who have wanted a clearer set of rules on when and in what situations power can be used against children and young people in care. In order to create clear rules, a committee has been set up which has made a large number of proposals for rules on the use of force against children and young people, which we have been working on in the Ministry. I am not going to go through all of them, but some of them, in the opinion of the Alternative, gave far too much authority to apply power to children and young people in foster families and institutions. In the alternative, we believe that teaching tools should always be given priority before the use of force and coercion. That is why, in the alternative, we have worked hard to ensure that more pedagogy is used instead of power in the proposals that were to be adopted today. For example: It is important that educators should not engage in detention and the use of force, which has a degree that the police really have to deal with. These wishes have been met by the other parties in the conciliation circle around the rate pool in which this law has been negotiated, as the economy for the implementation of the law comes from the funds of the rates. We have provided funds through the rate pool to ensure that the law is properly implemented in foster families and institutions using clear guidance and courses, etc. It must ensure that the legal basis for the use of force is used only as intended and as limited as possible. The alternative supports the legislative proposals and we will monitor implementation closely and look forward to evaluating the law in two years' time and ensure that we have any adjustments made if it turns out that this is necessary in order for the various aspects of the law to work properly in practice. Thank you for your cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103930	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Sarah Glerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103933	This bill shows that children and young people with disabilities must be able to be fitted with fabric belts for example. their wheelchair, if you think they can get hurt. There are no such time limits for it, and it should not be reported. Both Danish Disability Organizations and the Institute of Human Rights are very concerned that it can become a slippery path, because these children typically, for example, are. I can't tell you about it. How will the rapporteur deal with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408103959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104000	Well, we're working really hard to tone down the use of force, to remove a lot of force on many of these points. And this is one of them where in the evaluation we will look carefully at whether there are places where we need to develop it further. So we're aware of this. I would say that the use of force that we generally accept, for example. may be in the situation where a young person flees in the middle of the night in ten degree frosts largely undressed. So there, in the alternative, we can see the point of bringing the person back to the institution quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104039	Mrs. Sarah Glerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104041	Well, now I'm talking quite specifically about the matter of strapping children with fabric belts, and both Danish Disability Organizations and the Institute for Human Rights say that if you do it wrong, it can actually cause them physical damage. So they're asking for a physiotherapist to be in there and for it to be registered when you do. Is that something the rapporteur wants to work towards?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104100	So, we are still in the fight, so to speak, because we are going to produce a joint report on this in committee. And those edges we have the opportunity to continue working with some excellent guides.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104114	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, does not appear to be present. Then we move on to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104128	Thank you. It is true that the rapporteur of the Radicals is not here, so I am also speaking on their behalf. The most important thing for children and young people is security, close relationships, care and support to develop. This applies to all children, including those placed outside the home. In this way, when someone other than the parents takes over the care and the public system has to take responsibility, it is first and foremost important for the legal certainty of the child that the law clearly states what opportunities the care families and employees of 24-hour care institutions have and have not been available also in situations where the child or young person opposes adults and where it is considered necessary for the adult to protect the child by preventing acts that would be harmful to the child or others. The SF is part of the political agreement, which is behind proposals for the law on adult responsibility and the impact changes it has on other laws, and it is made on the basis of a major work in the Committee on Power Use, which last year made a number of recommendations. The parties between us, as has already been mentioned in this Chamber, have discussed a great many situations in which adults may have to take action against a child or a young person against his will. It is in itself an expression of a political will to find the best solutions that we have reached a common agreement. We have had a great deal of attention to how educational opportunities could be created without making room for unnecessary and harmful use of force, but as different parties have of course also had different views. That's why it's taken time to get the ends to meet. In addition to clarifying the rules and strengthening legal certainty, it has been important that human rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child were highlighted in relation to the responsibilities of the places of employment. This has been particularly important for the SF in the negotiations, which is why it is explicitly included in the legislative notes, which in this way are equally valid. Care, pedagogy, trust and respect for the autonomy of the child or young person should always prevail over the use of force. That is why the use of force must be made only in exceptional circumstances and must never replace dialogue and social pedagogy. The adult is responsible for doing everything possible to obtain the voluntary participation of the child or young person and must always consider the importance of intervention in the child's or young person's right of self-determination for the relationship and for the development of the child or young person. In any form of force, the principle of proportionality must apply both in relation to age and in relation to the situation. Both the report by the Committee on the Use of Power and the responses to this bill are characterised by the fact that there are also many different views among professionals and users in this area. And that's because it's a complex area. There are so many situations that you can imagine that it is difficult to make legislation that covers them all. Some think it is also clear from both the consultation responses and from the report by the Committee on Powers that there are too many possibilities for the use of force, while others say there should be more. Here it is important to reiterate that it is the trusting relationship which is the most important in educational work. Therefore, it has been important for the SF that there should be a registration and reporting of the use of force for reasons of legal certainty, but also for reasons of professional reflexion. Because these are precisely the situations that can be learned from teaching. If you make these records and reports correctly, it will be a tool for both the staff and the foster families, but also for the dialogue with the child or the young person. For the child or young person, he or she must also make his or her own comments on the situation of the use of force. The law cannot describe every conceivable situation in detail, and therefore it is important that the guidance clearly describes the limits of the powers of force. And so I look forward to seeing the guidance that will help clarify the purpose of the law. And I will follow the work that is, carefully and am pleased that funds have been set aside for implementation. Because it is quite essential when we talk about educating prior to the use of force, that there is also explicit in the guidance so that no one can be in doubt about it. Finally, I am pleased that we have agreed that this law can be evaluated after two years, so that we can look at the experience that is being gained and see whether the concerns expressed by at least some of the consultations are indeed justified. Then, as I said, I should say from the rapporteur of the Radicals, who unfortunately could not be here today, that they share the views of the SF and recommend the adoption of the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104703	Thank you. Mrs Sarah Glerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104706	There are many organizations who are concerned that this bill will not primarily clarify whether new legal grey areas will be created, especially as new forms of force are being introduced here, which are considered care and should not be registered. Organizations demand a clearer distinction between care and power. How will the rapporteur address this concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104729	I can understand their concern, because I have also had the same concern about where the threshold for reporting is going. But it is also true that everything that is going on in the educational practice should not be reported. So that is one of the things I want to follow very carefully, i.e. whether these grey areas arise, and I am quite sure that the very same organisations will have to make us aware of where the grey areas are, so that we can get this right and make it clear. And if there is a need to expand the places where you should report and register, the SF is at least open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104809	Mrs. Sarah Glerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104811	A very specific criticism which the organisations have made in relation to grey areas at least is that there is no maximum time limit for the physical retention of a child or child or young people with disabilities with fabric belts. Is this something that the rapporteur will work to counter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104826	I do not know whether the time limit is the most important thing, because I think that restraint in itself is serious. But I believe that this is where the principle of proportionality must apply, that is to say it is part of the report to state whether it is necessary here, and therefore also why it was necessary to do so during the time involved, so that the use of force must also end when it is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104901	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408104912	Thank you for that, President, and congratulations on your victory yesterday. I was hoping to see the trophy, but it might be coming. Today we are discussing the implementation of the agreement of November 2015, which was, of course, concluded by a very, very broad majority here in the Danish Parliament. It is important that legislation like this one has broad support. In fact, I think that makes it better legislation in the end, because there are so many ethical dilemmas in this which make it possible for us all to accommodate each other, and we have done so in this very, very fine negotiation process that has been going on. It should be borne in mind that this legislation has largely come about on the basis of a frustration which has been with staff, that there has been a lack of legal basis for doing what in very many cases just seems sensible. I mentioned the example of the dishwasher before, where you might take the porcelain out and bull it in the ground, and of course the staff should have the opportunity to put a hand on the shoulder and say: Listen, buddy, now we are going into another room, because what you are doing here is not very sensible. You haven't had that law before, but now you get it, and we think that's very sensible. You have to keep thinking about what this would have been like if it had been in a family. I don't think my parents had put up with me bullying a lot of cups in the ground until they hadn't just put a hand on my shoulder, but more definitely had led me away from that dishwasher and told me that they wouldn't put up with that. I believe that this kind of education is quite necessary in order to make an example of what is good behaviour and what is not. And that is something that must also be learned, whether you are placed in a 24-hour institution or in a community foster family. But, of course, it is also important to ensure legal certainty for these children and young people, and that is what we are doing. by ensuring that when power is used in cases where it is more intrusive, it has to be reported and it has to be recorded. Of course, there must always be proportionality in this; you must always choose the least intrusive tool you have in the tool box. It makes sense to be able to return children and young people who have escaped if there is a risk that they can either harm themselves or harm others. I remember that when we discussed this, there was someone who brought up an example with a young girl who had run away from an institution and had wanted to do harm to herself, where they actually had no legal basis to help her back, although they could fear for her own safety. It is also important that we have the opportunity to intervene here, of course with regard to the fact that the staff should never be driven into being a policeman, as was also mentioned here earlier. There has been the whole debate on the institutions of security. Should we have gone further than this personal examination? We would probably have been willing to do so from the conservative side, but, as I said, we have all had to find each other, and the Social Democrat rapporteur was very honest about where they were on this particular issue, and I think it describes very well that we have been a little in different places. In fact, I also think that the rapporteur had a good point in this, partly with substances that can be stored in many other places and partly with metal detectors that will then be used. We must then make sure that this tool is available, because I can follow those who say in the Committee on Powers that what is perhaps not so much an investigation in a pat on the pocket. But we must do what we can politically to ensure that these tools are available. An evaluation after two years is important and educational material is being prepared to ensure that staff are now fully aware of the guidelines under which they work. Although Enhedslisten and I may not agree on so much in this matter, we may agree on this with new languages. The reason I mention this is that I find it difficult to do so in general political terms. The Foreigners' Board that turns into Foreigners' Service and stuff in that way is just like Orwellsk for me. The reason why we are doing this in this case is, of course, that the use of force and coercion sounds so extremely hard and hollow, and I therefore agree that what we are doing is neither hard nor hollow, but caring, and so I understand that we have been looking for another expression in this matter. But that does not change the fact that a power is still being used for young people, albeit in the interests of young people. In those words, I would just like to say that we support both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408105348	Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, and it will take place from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil's place. And this is Well, it's just that the rapporteur has been sitting in a different place all the time. So it's okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408105403	The confusion arises because I have moved space and therefore before sat in my old place. It's formally this place that's my new place when I ask questions. I would just like to say that, yes, we have been a little different on those issues about how far we should go in the institutions that are secured, and that is why I am actually only able to confirm that yes, the tool metal detectors is of course entirely relevant. It is also not the case that we live with the view that patting some in our pockets is enough to reveal whether there are mobile phones or weapons. There it has been my experience that we have had a common interest in wanting to protect both the others who are in the secured institutions and the employees. That is why it is, of course, another type of tool that we need to use. And now that there is the electronic opportunity, we in the Social Democratic Party think that this is a perfectly clear way to go. Then there is also some kind of memory cake for us politicians, namely that the problem of abuse is still outstanding. We should not do anything about this legislation, but it is just to say that we know very well that we do not prevent the access of drugs to the safe institutions through this route. However, I fully agree: of course, we need to use the options available to prevent weapons and mobile phones entering the secured institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408105520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408105523	Thank you. I did not hear any question but just a comment. I agree, of course, that we must ensure that these electronic options are available when we have decided politically that the more low-practical tools should not be available to staff. So here we have a political responsibility on which we must ensure that we deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408105541	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408105553	I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to all the rapporteurs who have been extremely constructive and very focused in this work to actually create this whole new main legislation in an area where it is difficult to legislate. And the reason it is difficult is that it is a group that is widely represented both in terms of age and in terms of location. However, it is true that we are talking about the most vulnerable children in our society, the children in which parental responsibility, that is, the ability of the father and mother to take care of their upbringing, does not work and therefore they are placed outside the home. This means that this parental responsibility, which we so often discuss, has suddenly become someone else's. That is why it has been so important to me that we spent the time discussing what such a main law should be called, because the law on the use of force against children and young people is simply too violent an expression in my optics. I was very concerned about this, and several rapporteurs have also referred to the fact that we actually spent some time discussing ourselves with what such a main law should be called. Because it's about taking an adult responsibility. Adults take responsibility for children who are not yet of age, who are under 18 years of age, and when the father and mother are no longer there for one reason or another, there are employees, professionals in the country's institutions and in the country's foster families who have the huge responsibility of caring for children's upbringing, the well-being of children. That is why the law is the law on adult responsibility for children and young people. Yeah, call that new language that's it, but it's a new language that makes sense, and that's why I'm glad the law's the way it does. This is important, and it is also important in relation to the reception of employees. Something else that is important here is, as several people have also said, that this is a broad political agreement. All parties, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, have today indicated that they want to support these legislative proposals, and I believe that, as the Conservative rapporteur also mentioned, this is essential in order to ensure that this is indeed a well-functioningly implemented part of the everyday life of the employees of the country's institutions and also the foster families. So thank you to the rapporteurs. The proposed amendments should, as I said, help to clarify the rules on adult responsibility and indeed also strengthen legal certainty for the children and young people placed in care and the staff at the places of employment. So it is also the whole intention that, with this bill, we will now have the necessary tools created, the tools that were inadequate, difficult to understand, not present in the previous legislation. There is simply too much frustration about how to take care of this responsibility, how to say: I am the adult, and right in this situation it is I who must, but it is also powerless not to do anything, and that is not where we are going. We must fully recognise the strong professionalism that is present at the locations of the country, which focuses very, very much on creating the best growing opportunities and growing up conditions for the country's housed children. So this clear set of rules must, of course, support the fact that staff at placement sites do not exceed their powers towards a child or a young person and ensure that staff do not fail to provide adequate care for fear that they have exceeded their powers. That is why we have had an important debate today. I would like to thank you for the debate and also thank you for the nuances and breadth of it, because it is a large area. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's deliberations, and with these words I shall conclude my ministerial speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110025	Thank you for that to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110044	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110105	In the draft parliamentary resolution, the government is required to submit a bill amending the Law on State Training Aid, also called the SU Act, so that the interest rate on SU loans is the discount rate plus a premium of up to 1%, both during the period of study and during the subsequent period of payment, with a fixed interest rate ceiling of up to 4%. The authors of the proposal justify the proposal by the fact that, in recent years, the State has had a considerable income on the SU loan, since during the period of study the interest rate remains at 4%. as with the introduction of the SU loan back in 1988, despite the fact that the State borrows the money from the National Bank at a lower interest rate. Furthermore, the proposers justify the proposal by the fact that more and more young people are struggling to pay off their SU loans. Against this background, the proposers propose amendments to the SU Act. I would like to begin by saying that the Danish SU is in favour, and this also applies to the terms of the loan. Generally speaking, the interest rate on SU loans, both during and after training, is lower than the rate that students would be able to obtain if they borrowed the money under normal market conditions. From the perspective of a whole loan period, the terms of student loans are therefore relatively favourable. The interest rate is flexible after study time and is currently in place. of only 1%, but as mentioned, it is fixed at 4%. during study. This means that interest rates do not increase when market rates rise. A fixed return on student loans has been chosen during the period of study in order to provide the student with stability and an interest rate level which cannot be achieved under market conditions. Historically, it is actually a low return that gives the student predictability and security during the study. Although this has not been the original intention of the rules, the current higher interest rate during the period of study also contributes to an incentive for students to complete the programme more quickly. The conversion of the SU scheme back in 1988 was, among other things, the following: a dispute with the old state-guaranteed student loans in the banks, which were in excess of 15% over a period of time. at interest rate. The logic of the time was to avoid that the debt had increased dramatically even before the training had been completed. This ensures the current level of interest rates with an even lower interest rate in the repayment period, which is, after all, the longest period for most borrowers. The current interest rate is also low compared to all other consumer loans and no specific requirements are made for the borrower other than that it is a student. In addition, a change in interest rates with current interest rates is expected to entail a substantial additional cost for the State in the form of losses of interest income which would be roughly estimated to be in the order of a few hundred million kroner. If so, that money would have to be found in the SU area. Finally, it is worth remembering that SU loans are loans that the student can voluntarily choose to take up during his or her education. It is an offer that the individual student can choose. The student also has the opportunity to supplement the SU grant with employment. Students in higher education can earn up to DKK 12,000. a month, without it being offset against the SU grant. The government cannot therefore, overall, support proposals for parliamentary resolution no. B 78. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110459	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann. Here you go. First of all, there is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110510	Thank you, Minister. I fully agree with the Minister that it was sensible to introduce this SU loan to ensure that students have access to a loan with a stable and predictable level of interest rates, which means that they will not be in debt for too long. So we are very much in agreement on that part. Will the Minister not just confirm that since the loan was introduced in 1988 the discount rate, i.e. the national bank's interest rate, has fallen extremely, and that at that time it was not intended for the State to make a profit on the loan, but rather to give a proper and favourable loan to students?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110558	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110559	Yes, I can confirm that. In fact, I think that was quite clear from my answer. The intention back in 1988 was to ensure that no heavy debts were incurred during the course of its studies because it was referred to borrowing banks at an interest rate significantly higher than that chosen by the introduction of the SU loan back in 1988. At that time, the level of the law was set at 4%. So yes, I can confirm that the interest rate on the free market was different than it is today. However, that does not change the fact that, when we look at the overall SU system today, we see that we do have the world's most favourable study support system. If we change what Enhedslisten wants here, it will cost money. In the fiscal situation we are in today, there is no possibility of adding additional resources to the SU area, as Enhedslisten does not surprise me, because Enhedslisten has no tradition whatsoever of taking any fiscal responsibility whatsoever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110721	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110722	I should now like to remind the Minister that this is an additional income which the State has obtained from these interest rates. This isn't about putting money on it. That's one. The second is that I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm that the revenue that the state is receiving now and here, krona by krona, goes to the SU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110743-2	You don't usually make it up like that. It is not the case that one can earmark a penny in the public sector and say that it goes exactly to that end. But it is the case that if you look at the SU today held up against what we used in crowns and ears both proportionally, but also absolutely, back in 1988, then you see that we have a more favorable SU system today. I do not know whether Mrs Eva Flyvholm will consider this to be a confirmation of her question or a denial. But it is a fact that we have a more favourable SU system today than we had when the loan was introduced back in 1988.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110830	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408110842	The purpose of Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is to change the current interest rate for SU loans. According to the comments to the proposal, the proposal should ensure that as many young people as possible are able to take training and avoid debt problems. That is a sympathetic ambition. However, the Socialists do not believe that B 78 strikes the right balance between the outlined problem and the proposed solution. First of all, the current interest rate on the SU loan from the perspective of the Socialists is not an obstacle to as many people as possible taking an education. It seems to me to be a mistake that the fixed lending rate should mean that young people do not take an education. As you know, it is the case that you receive SU when you are a student. It is the SU that is the central part of a student's economy. In addition, we raised the amount of free money that must be earned alongside our SU, with the reform of the SU in 2013. This led to increased opportunities to supplement its SU with work alongside the study. At the same time, I think it is important to make it clear that we can reasonably expect interest rates to change. It happens with all historical experience over time. In other words, the discount rate will not remain at the current level forever. Therefore, we will also most likely see that the current rate of interest on SU loans will again seem advantageous in relation to the discount rate. In addition, I do not think that the authors' reference to debt problems is as straightforward as it is made in the motion for a resolution. Quite rightly, we see an increase in the number of Danes who do not pay off their SU debt on time. I know all about that. It must, of course, be taken very seriously. But again, I would point out that we must address the problem of the right solution. Here I am certainly not convinced that a fluctuating lending rate will bring about the desired change. On the contrary, it is my immediate claim that it can have the opposite effect, because if you allow the interest rate on SU loans to move, you also increase the incentive for students to start speculating on borrowing money, and I do not think that you want that incentive to be strengthened, even on the part of Enhedslisten. At least it's unwise in the long run. The Socialists support the current level of interest rates because it ensures a fixed low interest rate that is not cyclical. The SU loan is a transparent, stable and advantageous loan and must therefore continue to be so. This must never be the case, so it is influenced by the political mood of the students at all times about what to have or not to have. At the same time, it is in the long term an advantage for students that interest rates will not be tampered with precisely because of this. If it is customary to turn that lever, it will also open up the possibility of raising interest rates at some point if you have a political majority in favour of it. We do not want to go there. The Socialists do not want to change the current situation, which in a historical perspective is quite beneficial to students. At the same time, we are not convinced that the proposal will allow more young people to take up training and avoid debt problems. Very different means are needed. So the Socialists cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111144	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111149	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm gonna start by solving something. The fact that it is going to swing too much is why we maintain the 4% ceiling as we know it, so that students do not run the risk of getting into worse debt problems. This is simply to adjust up the very good intentions already contained in the SU loan agreement. Now we are in a very different situation than we were in 1988, and the state has made more than 1.5 billion. kr. since 2011 on the SU loan, and at the same time students have difficulty paying off their loans. Wasn't it an idea to look at whether you could adjust it a little to suit the current interest rate level? You couldn't predict that at the time. I would like to know whether the Social Democrat rapporteur could be a little bit open to adapting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111244	I think this is a slightly wrong way to put it by saying that the state is making money out of this. I would like to draw the attention of Mrs Flyvholm to the fact that from 1988 until today we have fortunately increased the number of students considerably, that is to say, exorbitant. This also means, of course, that we in the Socialist Group want these students to have an opportunity to complete their education and, moreover, to get the SU through all the way and it costs money. That is why the money has somehow been channelled into the investment that lies in making the education system we have today one of the most advantageous that actually exists in the Western world, and the Socialists are very pleased about that. Of course, in the question of whether to look at a fluctuation of interest rates, it is also essential to look at the historical development of interest rates. It is true that we have at least moved further down, fortunately, so that we do not see this galloping interest rate which has meant that many students never get out of their debt problems. I should now like to say something about precisely not being able to repay its SU loans. We do not know the students who are in debt problems; we do not know their debt profile. It is mostly likely that they have also borrowed other loans alongside the SU loans while they were reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111401	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111402	Thank you to the rapporteur. The interest rate has fallen a lot, so the state has an income. Although the figures are fairly clear, the state has received 1.5 billion. kr. in interest income on the SU loan paid by students since 2011. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can also confirm, following on from what the Minister said, that these 1.5 billion here. kr is money that goes to the SU system. Have they been put into the SU system, or are they just going into the treasury and being used for everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111447	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111448	Now I do not want to sound like a repeat of the Minister when I answer this question. After all, the money box, which is the Treasury, is where the funds are distributed, depending on the government which is in office at any time and the majority behind the Finance Act, to which Enhedslisten has been a party twice. That is why Mrs Flyvholm can also remember that, depending on the priorities that exist, the money may be used, among other things. to improve our education system even more. The Socialists are concerned about having one of the best education systems and, incidentally, also the economy of the SU. We think that the ambition of the proposal is sympathetic. We just do not believe that the solution to the problem raised is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111544	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur has suddenly been prevented, which is why I am here today. What we think about the amendment of the SU law is that it is a core value of our education system that there is equal access to the education system. The SU system is an important part of this as a substitute for the study. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that you have a good SU system that you should safeguard. This motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten is about the interest rate on SU loans. There was a recent debate in the press when it became known that the interest rate on SU loans during the training is higher than the interest rate after the completion of the training. This is due to the fact that the rate of return on training in 1988 was set at 4%. After completion of the training, the interest rate on the SU loan is the discount account plus a supplement. The Enhedslisten is now asking whether we cannot change the interest rate during the course of the training so that it is reduced to the same as after the completion of the training. There is just the small practical problem that Enhedslisten does not provide any funding for the exercise. In the Danish People's Party we can understand the thinking behind the creation of state loans. The purpose of state student loans is to provide students with as cheap loans as possible in addition to the SU for those in need. Originally it was probably not intended that the interest rate during the study should be higher than after the end of the study, but at the same time it is essential to say that a loan with an interest rate of 4%. Certainly today is also cheap. Then it'll only be even cheaper when you're done with your studio. The proposal states that the interest rate should contribute to the failure of many to repay their student loans. I am not sure whether that is the case, but it might be interesting to look at how, in general, young people are helped not to get too large loans, so it is realistic to repay them. After all, the student loan is an offer which one chooses to make use of. In the Danish People's Party, we want to help look at the whole area of SU and SU loans, but we believe that the right thing is to do with a major discussion about taximeters, including about the incentive structure in the education sector in general. A discussion and financing of any adjustments to student loan interest rates is appropriate in this context. That is why we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111842	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111844	Thank you to the rapporteur. Perhaps it is a bit awkward to ask the rapporteur here about this. The second rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Jens Henrik Thulensen Dahl, said when these figures came out, when it turned out that the state had made so much money on SU loans: I think we should look at whether the interest paid by students is reasonable in relation to the intention of the SU loan. The idea is that it should be cheapest while they are students. On this point I understood that the Danish People's Party is actually very concerned that students should have a good and cheap loan and that it is not reasonable for the state to make extra profit from it. What has changed since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111924	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111926	I can't tell you what Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl thought when he said it. I just got this case an hour ago. So, unfortunately, I can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111938	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408111940	I'm just wondering, because I got the clear impression that the Danish People's Party actually thought this was unfair when the debate was going on. So I hope that during the committee procedure the Danish People's Party will actually look very seriously at the need to change it and that we can have a good debate about changing this student loan during treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112001	The Danish People's Party is prepared to discuss the whole area with SU and SU loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112010	Thank you to the rapporteur. I must say in general terms that when you are the rapporteur you are the rapporteur and then questions can easily be asked, regardless of who is on the platform. Here you go, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112026	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased to be a newly elected rapporteur in this area and look forward to working with the rapporteurs in the Chamber. I would like to say that it will certainly not come as a surprise to my colleagues that the Left cannot support B 78 either, although there are some sympathetic features to the proposal. The previous rapporteurs on the platform have presented quite skilfully what the proposal contains, so there is no reason for me to review the elements again. There is, of course, the comment that while you are a student and are borrowing, the interest rate is 4%. plus the discount, and then it falls. One may wonder at the strangeness of that. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur has said on several occasions that the state has made money from this relationship. You just have to say that borrowing money isn't free, even if you're a student. The interest rate charged today is lower than the market rate will be. At the same time, it is said that the state has made a lot of money by offering these SU loans. It has to be said that there are two things that apply. The first is that the rapporteur must remember to recognise the inflation costs, and the second is that if you want to change this, you have to change the funding system behind the SU system. And I do not see that that has been taken into account in the motion for a resolution. The Left is a party that always wants to see how we can make things more effective, better and also more reasonable. This also applies to the SU system. But if we look overall at how things are screwed up today in Denmark, we see that we have the world's most generous SU system. We offer all who want it, cheap and favorable loans; we offer a long repayment period at low interest rates. Serious parties wishing to change that system owe it to us in the Parliamentary Chamber to make funding proposals so that the educational system does not impose new costs, especially at a time when we know that the Danish economy is challenged. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Those must be my words from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112240	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112241	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur why the rapporteur does not believe that it could be possible to change interest rates in the SU loan without having to change the entire SU system. Surely it should be possible to do so in full. I simply do not see what the obstacle is. We already have the structure of this proposal that you pay the discount plus 1 in relation to the rest of the loan time. It's an adjustment. It is clear that this will mean that the state will get less money in the box. I think this is very reasonable, given that right now it is poor students who contribute to it. This is another discussion about funding, and we can easily point to plenty of places to get other money in. I just want to hear: why does the rapporteur not think that it should be possible just to change interest rates? Why does it have to be linked to the rest of the SU system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112330	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112331	Thank you. As a member of the Left Party, I can and can sometimes become jealous of the representatives of the Enhedslisten. It must be nice to represent a party that makes proposals time and time again without worrying about how to finance the many wishes that are deliberately awarded to people in different parties. Unfortunately, I think the rapporteur misunderstands me. I am not saying that you cannot change the interest rate without changing the entire SU system. I say that the funding that is behind a change in interest rates will have consequences. That is also why I have to ask Mrs Flyvholm again: a change in the interest rate will mean that there is less revenue for the state, it costs money and where will that money come from? How is the proposal financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112414	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112415	[Soundout]... generally speaking, it is the Left that lets the money flow out of the Treasury, and not the Enhedslisten, I would say. We are almost in a slightly different situation here, where we are really pointing out that, for once, there is less money coming into the treasury. That's because I don't want to take money from poor students. We can finance it via the housing job scheme or through several tax cuts that you have given to the richest Danes. There are plenty of options. But the basic thing here is that this is about giving students the opportunity to get a good and fair loan. That was the intention of the original system and would the rapporteur confirm that this is still the intention of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112456	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112459	Unfortunately, I am now confused and it is not to be unreasonable with the rapporteur. Well, I can confirm that the intention in Enhedslisten's proposal is the intention in Enhedslisten's proposal. So far, so good, I don't think there's any doubt about that. But I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on winning the prize for the first rhetorical strawman today in the Parliamentary Chamber. Now the rapporteur has repeated twice not wanting to take money from poor students. That is not what the Left wants either, and that is why we are a parliamentary basis behind an SU system that offers cheaper loans than those which can be obtained under market conditions. That is why I do not think it is unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112536	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112559	Politicians imagine that money for education creates greater equality, social mobility and model breakers, but they are wrong. Those who get the most out of the educational billions are privileged and their children who rush into free education and SU. Erik Jørgen Hansen told the newspaper Politiken on 15 August 2015. And Erik Jørgen Hansen is not just anyone. He was a professor of education sociology until he retired in 2005. He is one of the people in Denmark who has researched the longest and deepest and most thoroughly in our education system. And last but not least, it is a public secret that he has a considerable sympathy for the Socialists. Erik Jørgen Hansen is not alone in pointing out that the SU system is inappropriate. Recently, a committee headed by another Social Democrat, Carsten Koch, has set up the Axcelfuture Foundation, among other things. pointed out that the social return on the State's investment in training aid is significantly lower than it should be. From many socio-economic points of view, the SU system is therefore problematic. But aren't the students at least happy about that? After all, it's the most generous thing in the world. No, they're not as happy as you'd think. In 2015, a study from the Think Tank DEA compared Swedish and Danish students. Strangely enough, Danish students had on average more work than Swedish students, although in Sweden the public education aid is only about half of the educational support in Denmark. And strangely enough, the Swedish students were all in all more satisfied with their life situation than the Danish were. The Enhedslisten has taken the view in isolation that the rules on the remuneration of SU loans come from a past time, but the motion for a resolution points out a single inappropriate corner of an entire system that is inappropriate. That is why we are not inclined to support the proposal in the Liberal Alliance. It should not be understood in this way that Enhedslisten's criticism is completely unjustified. It should be understood in this way that a patch solution is proposed in relation to a system which as a whole is unsmart. That is why I would like to conclude by calling on the Enhedslisten to engage constructively in the work of designing a whole new support system. The existing system does not take into account the considerations of social justice that are normally at the heart of the Enhedslisten; Erik Jørgen Hansen demonstrates this. At the same time, it also fails to take account of the considerations of sound use of taxpayers' money, which, in addition to fundamental social justice, we also attach importance to, for example. Liberal Alliance; it shows Axcelfuture's think tank. Therefore, a broad circle of parties across the political centre should actually be able to find each other in the desire to design a completely new SU system. Perhaps this will actually lead to the students being happy about it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112923	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408112928	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we can expect from the Liberal Alliance that we will help to reduce interest rates on this SU loan so that it will be more up-to-date and it will not be the state that gets a lot of extra interest from students. Would the Liberal Alliance like to join in making such an agreement to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113000	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113001	We would rather not go into such a partial agreement to repair a single element of a system that is actually not very good. According to Erik Jørgen Hansen, there is no fundamental social justice in the SU system and there is a poor social return on it. It is very expensive; it costs well over 20 billion. kr., which we use quite unreasonablely. We would like to take this into account in an overall discussion of getting a new and better SU system, but we do not want to go into an attempt to create an isolated solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113038	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113039	[Sound emission]... aware of what the rapporteur thinks. So let's look at this exact corner right over here, that's the question of the interest rate on the SU loan. Does the rapporteur think that it is a good idea for it to be adjusted so that there is no extra income for the state and where it is the students who pay this higher interest rate? Is that, in isolation, a good idea or a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113100	The rapporteur. Here you go for the last remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113101	It is a very robust system that we have, so we have some of the same concerns about changing the system, as several of the other rapporteurs have also expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113117	We thank the rapporteur because there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113128	Thank you. I think this is the first time I have heard a rapporteur's speech from LA which mentions the concept of social justice so many times, but I think that is very positive. It was a comment with a flash in the eye. I would like to start by saying that in the alternative we support the Enhedslisten's proposal, and we do so on the basis of the optics that the whole original idea behind the SU loan was that as a student a loan should be made on favourable terms and, at the same time, a loan on which the state should not make any profit. That is what has happened in the meantime; the state has come to make a great deal of money from the SU loans. In addition to the fact that it is a concrete question of the interest rate that students have to pay, it is also a question of social justice, also in a different optics: whether it is fair that students do not benefit from the interest rate developments that we have seen in society over the past many years when all of us do so in many other areas, such as car loans and mortgage loans. Consumer loans may be more expensive, but I do not think that is a fair comparison either, because consumer loans are something for themselves. And I do not think it is fair that students should not also benefit from the interest rate developments that we have seen in society in this way. So in this perspective, I think that Enhedslisten's proposal is a very sensible one, and I think we should remember to include that perspective in this debate. We must not treat our social groups differently in this way. Having said that, I understand some of the objections that have been raised in relation to the fact that there is no proposal as to how this should be financed. One might say that somewhere you might have thought a long time ago and said: "Well, the state should not make money on the SU loans, so either we put them aside or we change the system in time. But it has become the case that the extra income has been included in some other social expenditure, and I understand that there is a need to look at how to finance such a solution here. However, I also think that I have heard from the rapporteurs on the platform today that there is in fact a willingness to look at a lower interest rate for students at least on the part of several rapporteurs. So it will be my request that the Enhedslisten proceed with this when we look at the Finance Act or in some other negotiations later. And at least we would very much like to go into that work from the point of view of the alternative. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113359	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. We move on to the next in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113410	Thank you very much. The Enhedslisten's proposal is to reduce the interest rate on SU loans during the time you are a student to correspond to what it is at present when you are no longer a student, i.e. the discount plus 1%, but max. 4% On the one hand, you have to remember why we have this rule, and it was because at a time when the interest rate was as high as 15%, you wanted to help the students. On the one hand, you have to remember that it costs money to do this. On the radical side we would say that if this is going to cost a three-digit million sum the assessment is that with the current interest rate it might cost 200 million. kr., but in reality the amount can be even higher. The question is: If you need 200 million. kr. Right now on education, is it the best thing to use it on the SU, or is it in what we radically think must be the right place to lift at this time, namely on the quality of education? So even if we share the intention, this costs money, and we think that money from the radical side would be much better spent when investing on the education side ^ on education and not on SU at this time in history. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113535	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113539	I would like to thank the rapporteur for at least recognising its intention, and I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will confirm that what the current government is spending on our common tax revenue is not primarily the education system, but rather more tax relief for the richest and cheap luxury cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113600	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113601	I can at least admit that the current government has chosen to cut our education very significantly. You cut over 2%. We have cut 1.4 billion a year and we have cut 1.4 billion a year. kr. Down on the research. It seems absolutely pointless at this stage in world history to choose to cut back on this area, which is what we must live on in the future, and which is what is our resource in Denmark, namely the young people who have just been assessed by an independent panel as the most important growth proposal for Denmark. An independent panel of economists has just considered that investing in research and education is the allerals most important in raising Denmark's growth potentials. In other words, the government has chosen to cut back on this because, among other things, it has. have wanted to give wealthy people a handicraft allowance for their artisan bills and because they have wanted cheaper cars. So I can completely confirm that, and that is why we are in the Enhedslisten and the Radicals in line: that is not the right priority. Then maybe we can't agree on the rest from here. But we're going to say if we need 200 million. kr. more and so we would very much, very much like to spend it on raising the quality of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113711	Mrs. Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113711-2	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur and the Radical Left will in future actually do something to reduce the interest rate on SU loans, so that students will also benefit from the fact that the discount rate is as low as it is now and that it will not be the state but the students who can benefit from a better student loan. Will the Radicals help to look at this in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113739	Mrs. Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113740	Yes, that is what we are discussing today, and I have just said that it is currently costing up to 200 million. kr., and it could be even more expensive. I just want to ask Enhedslisten if it's not better if we have 200 million. kr., spending them on raising the quality of education than on going out and spending more money on the SU system. I think, and the Radical Left, that the most important thing is to spend the money on raising the quality of education and training, and we would like to spend a lot, much more than 200 million. kr. We have set a much, much higher amount of money to try to correct the damage the government has done with their huge cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113812	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408113822	We think that this is a very good proposal, because basically we do not think that the state should make any money lending to young people, but we also believe that this is a matter that belongs in the SU group where we are also sitting, and that is why we in the SF are not voting in favour of the resolution at this time either. The U.S. Association decided a long time ago to set this 4% interest rate ceiling. Just to protect the students. Now it has turned out that it has become a profit business, and that is why I think it should actually be looked at in the conciliation circle. I have also heard more of the rapporteurs say that from the other side than the opposition, and I am pleased about that. The proposal here will cost 100 million. kr. or, in fact, several hundred million kroner, which is why it is quite crucial for SF that we get influence on it. Now, if we voted this through, and let's say there was a majority in favour of it, we ordered the government to cut 200 million. kr., because then you could implement this proposal, which we think is sympathetic, and the government would have to find that money somewhere, and if we were to impose it on them and not sit in the SU conciliation circle ourselves, we would also have no influence on where to find the money. At a time when you are talking about making loan-based candidate SU, and now, at least for over a year, you have been saving on education, we think this is a scenario that we will not back up. We will have an influence on where that money should be taken if we could ever agree to make this proposal. In addition to that, we think that there are more bets to be made, because what I also hear is the concern of the Enhedslisten, which I actually share, is that huge numbers of young people are going into debt. Of course, this proposal can help prevent young people from suddenly finding themselves in a situation where they cannot repay their loans, but I also believe that there are other and important constraints that can be made in this regard and that I think we should actually take up in the SU group. Then you can agree or disagree with whether we need to spend more money on this system, but I think you can only agree that it is a very, very unfortunate situation if more and more young people get into the situation where they cannot repay their loans. So I think that is actually a general problem that should be addressed in the Socialist Group. I do not have the big chromed solutions, but what I could imagine is whether we have good enough advice, i.e. loan advice for young people. I know that work has been done in the City of Copenhagen. Is that something you could spread to more of the country? Can you strengthen it? There are several different places in the education sector where you actually have such a kind of hidden user fee, both in secondary schools and in other educations as well. It could be user fees for study trips, but also the very, very expensive books and materials you buy in connection with the teaching. Is there anything that makes you suddenly debt and cannot pay it back at a later stage? Is such a basic thing as what the possibilities are for taking a student job, something you could look at? So we're actually going to take up this proposal, but we're also going to look wider and see how we can actually prevent young people from getting into the situation where they can't repay their loans. So if Enhedslisten wants to ask if we want to continue working on this proposal, I would say that we think it is a very good proposal and good that Enhedslisten puts the emphasis on it, but that is something that we will continue working on in the SU group where we actually have the opportunity to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114159	Thank you to the rapporteur. One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114203	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am pleased that the SF certainly supports the intention of the proposal. Jonas Dahl, who is the group chairman of the SF, also said when this came out: it is not right for students to pay usurp interest, which we are trying to ban by other loans. I also hope that the SF will stand by this during the committee procedure here, so that we may be able to make a report or some sort of binding agreement that this is something that will be looked at seriously in the conciliation circle. I think that would be very good. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur points out that there will be an impact on how that money is to be spent. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that, as it is now, the SU conciliation circle has no influence whatsoever on how the very, very large extra income that comes from interest rates paid by students is being spent in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114308	No, that's right. Unfortunately, we have no influence on how the money you get into this is spent. But I am quite clear in my conviction that if we order the government to find 200 million. kr. to use them in the field of education, they will also be found elsewhere in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114330	Mrs. Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114331	Will the rapporteur not still stand by and say: we have a responsibility to ensure that students are given the best possible conditions for studying and for obtaining a fair and fair loan, as was the intention here? It is no longer the case that it is a fair and reasonable loan when the state simply makes extra billions of loans to students. Isn't that something we should have done about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114356	Yes, and that is also why I have praised the Enhedslisten for bringing it up in this Chamber, and that is also why I have actually said that we will take it up in the conciliation circle and I am glad to hear that there are more who are willing to do so. I would just like to say that I think, after all, that this is still a good loan, although I think it is wrong in principle that the state should make money from young people. That's what I and SF are gonna do about. But I still think it is, after all, a good loan for young people. I just want to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114425	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114436	Thank you. I am here instead of our rapporteur in this area, Mrs Mai Mercado, who cannot be here today. We are, of course, discussing, as I hope everyone is aware, this proposal to change the SU rate so that the discount rate plus a premium of not more than 1%. the SU rate during both the period of study and during the period of payment. These favourable state S.U. loans were established as a counterweight to the expensive schemes that banks could offer back in the 1980s. The expensive arrangements meant that some students had debts for years and they had difficulty getting out of debt afterwards. From the outset, the student loan created a scheme which lent money to students at an extremely favourable rate of 4%. during study. This has been the case since then, regardless of what interest rates have otherwise looked like on the market. It can always be discussed whether the state should act as a lending institution for the citizens at all, but in the Conservative People's Party we think it is important that there is stability around the student loan and that students are guaranteed cheap loans, regardless of how the business cycle in society develops. Is it so reasonable that, in these years, the state actually makes money from lending money to the students when the interest rate on the student loan during the study period is higher than the discount rate? We are happy to enter into a dialogue on student loans and SU if the government wants to call for negotiations, but here and now we have to note that no student is being forced to borrow a student loan. It is quite voluntary, and if you can find cheaper lending opportunities elsewhere as a student, yes, then students are free to choose it, although I think it is difficult to find loans that are more favourable. For as the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, it is basically a pretty good offer that students are offered. With those words, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114629	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the proposals, Mrs Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408114652	Thank you and thank you for the discussion here today. As has also been mentioned earlier, the SU loan, as we know it today, was introduced in order precisely to give students an opportunity to obtain a proper low-interest loan. This was a consequence of the fact that a great many people had previously seen that I believe my parents, for example. had been hard hit by the end of the year had to pay very, very expensive interest on their student loans, which were taken up by private banks. That is why it was a really, really sensible initiative to set up a state loan scheme for students to ensure that they could take an education without being in debt forever and forever, and that there was also some stability in interest rates. I thought that was a really, really sensible move. It's just that the interest rate was much, much higher when you laid the basis for this loan model, so when you set the interest rate that now exists at 4%, it was extremely advantageous for students. But this has changed because the discount rate, i.e. the national bank's lending rate, has really fallen enormously over the years, and that means that the state has, over the last few years, had a fairly large income on this SU loan. The weekly letter A4 has been able to demonstrate that the State has earned 1.5 billion since 2011. kr. on the SU loan. There you just have to stop and say: was the original meaning of the SU loan that the state should earn so much? No, I certainly don't think that was the intention when the SU loan was made. Therefore, we on the Enhedslisten's side just think in all silence that it might now be a good opportunity to get adjusted to this interest rate, so that we ensure that the SU loan can also today be the good opportunity for students to get a cheap and secure loan. It has to be said that the trend, as we see it now, is also that more and more young people are borrowing SU loans. That's one of the things that hangs. along with the fact that it is some very, very expensive rents they stand with as students who take most of the SU, so they actually have to supplement with a loan as well. In addition, many students are struggling to pay off the loan, among other things. because students, as the situation is now, are facing unemployment and therefore find it difficult to start paying them off. From this point of view, I would just like to say that I do not think it makes sense for the state to have had a large extra income on the SU loan over the last few years, and that at the same time we have students who are really struggling to keep their noses open and who must have the opportunity of a good loan. So I hope that this will give us the opportunity to discuss whether we cannot just make the adjustments to student loans that ensure that the state does not have the extra income, but that it is the students who are given a good opportunity to have a loan. It can be said that this is quite specific, as I have mentioned before, a proposal that you run with the discount plus 1 in both study and subsequent periods. It is an adjustment of what it already looks like and it should be fully possible. Some people have said that this is going to be a cost to the state. I do not know whether or not I would call it an expense, but as long as the interest rate looks as it is now, it will certainly be some money that the state will not get from the students. And it is clear that funding must be found for it somewhere else; we can find that in many different places. But the key point here is that I do not think it is fair or that I am not quite comfortable with the fact that, as a community right now, we are actually scratching interest income from some of the poorest citizens in this society, the students. It just doesn't feel quite right and certainly not when it's not the purpose of the SU loan. So I really hope that during the discussion of this proposal we can have a discussion on whether it is not possible to adjust interest rates so that we can have a proper, fair and up-to-date model for the SU loan. I hope that the parties involved in the conciliation will also participate in an open discussion of it, and then we will see if we can make an agreement that this is something that we would like to look at in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115140	There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115145	Thank you. Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has spoken on several occasions about these poor, poor students, and how sad it is that some of the most vulnerable in our society are apparently poor, poor students who have had the skills, forces and profits to take up higher education. I think it is in itself that we are not in any way exposed or weak. But I would like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur if it is not true that you will only have to pay back your SU loan once you have finished being a student, so this is about us demanding money from poor, poor students, that is not correct. For it is people who have taken higher education and who have come out and may have got a job in the fat communications industry or have become engineers and everything else that has to pay back, but it is not while they are poor, poor students.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115238	Firstly, I would like to say that there are a great many students who are now almost forced to take an SU loan, and the rapporteur presented it before as if it were just free and then you could not. But when you get an SU of 5,941 DKK, it is difficult to get it to reach both for an occasion and for such a general life with books etc. within a whole month. So many young people, precisely because they do not have a very high income at the SU, need to supplement with the SU loan. So it's something they're tied to because they don't have much money. That's one part of it. The second is that there are a great many of the students who, as the situation is right now, when they come out afterwards, cannot get any work. The rapporteur knows as well as I do that there is a high level of unemployment among young people who have been trained, and that is also some of the problems that make people unable to pay off their student loans. So no, I actually do not think it is fair that the state has an unexpected bonus by scratching interest rates with students who, after all, are some of those who have the lowest income in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115347	Mrs Mette Abildgaard, on behalf of the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115349	It is simply not factually correct what the rapporteur says. We have the lowest unemployment rate for many years, and there were new figures the other day. The rapporteur then says this: you will be forced to take an SU loan if you are going to have an opportunity, and it is already going wrong for the rapporteur. For example, as a student, I have lived in the dorm at Nørrebro, and I was happy to do so. If you are a student, you can also stay at the dorm in Hvidovre, but it is fun that there are always seats available there. Because you want to stay in Copenhagen K, at Hans Knudsen's Square or Saint Hans Square or some fancy-pansy place. So the fact that it's coercion, I just don't buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115426	I do not think we normally use foreign terms of that nature in the Folketing. But it's fine. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115433	Now, first of all, I would like to stress that even the payment of rent to a dorm room makes a very, very large cut in the SU. A dorm room also costs several thousand kroner, so it's hard for students to get their everyday lives together. I think that's how widely recognized they are when they both have to pay for a residence, whether it's a dorm room, an apartment, or whatever it is, and they have to pay for food and insurance, etc., with an income of DKK 5,941. I would like to see the rapporteur do that. Secondly, however, the key point is that we must ensure a model that is fair and fair in order to obtain that loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115511	Mrs Mette Reissmann, Social Democrat, on a brief note.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115514	Thank you very much. I just want to know whether Mrs Eva Flyvholm can confirm that there may be competing debts in the student's budget which make it difficult to repay her SU debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115533	Yes, there may well be in the case of several students. It's probably different, depending on the person, what the debt picture looks like. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur down there whether the rapporteur thinks it is fair that the state should have this extra income for the SU loans. I mean, is that what's meant to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115554	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115556	After all, it is fun that the roles can be reversed, and I look forward to the continued debate. However, I shall now use my Question Time to ask the question in relation to the fact that there is no shortage of loans. I would say that for most students who decide to have an education, it is, of course, an investment in their own future and hopefully also a better life, and in this way, I believe, it is actually favourable terms of credit that are present today. To the extent that you have to enter the free market and take a loan, there is therefore a considerable additional return. You may have to pay just under DKK 68,000. back in interest if we imagine it was a quick loan instead of a student loan. And then I would just like to ask Mrs Flyvholm: if it is the case that suddenly you started playing with interest rates in the way that is proposed, can there not be a risk that students will be pushed onto the private lending market instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115654	Well, this is a proposal that should make it more favourable for students to take a student loan. You can say that it doesn't come up above 4 per cent at any time. So no, I don't think there's gonna be a game with the interest rate as such. As the rapporteur says, I think that the crucial thing here is to ensure that you have a proper and transparent state loan that students can take, and I think that is very sensible. What we want to do with this proposal is to point out in all silence that the state is currently earning a great deal of money from lending money to students, and that was not the intention. Could we not perhaps look at adjusting it so that we came back to what was actually the goal, namely to ensure that there is a good and proper loan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115748	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115751	Thank you for that, President. I feel called upon to speak because the rapporteur from the platform says several things that I find incorrect. Would the rapporteur not like to explain to the Danish Parliament where the rapporteur has been informed that the level of graduation is still very high as it was just described? It does not measure up to the information I have or the information I can read from Danmarks Statistik. At the same time, I would like to ask the rapporteur something else: is the rapporteur aware that less expensive loans are being granted on market terms without any collateral than what the SU-Control offers to Danish students today? I should also like to ask the rapporteur something. I know that these are three things, but these are relatively simple questions: is the rapporteur aware that the reimbursement of SU loans is only started when you are in work and that the reimbursement is regulated according to the income you have on an annual basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408115847	First of all, on the question of graduation, about which I have perhaps been imprecise, I should like to say that the reality is that many young people find it difficult to get work now more difficult than some years ago. These have been the consequences, it may be said, of the crisis, and I think that is fairly widespread. You can also see from the coverage of what has been here that some of what you point to is that many young people find it difficult to repay their student loans precisely because they do not come out and just get a fat and well-paid job. Then it is true, as the other rapporteur on the Left said before, that you only start to pay off later when you have the opportunity, and I think that is a very, very sensible construction for the SU loan. I hope the rapporteur has understood that too, that is to say that we, the Enhedslisten, are not interested in changing it at all. The fact that the interest rate is 4%. Now, is just historically high compared to the discount rate. In the past it was the other way around, so the students got a more favorable interest rate, and that is in connection with what we want to adjust and change.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120000	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120003	I shall not be able to say whether interest rates minus inflation and purchasing power costs are historically high. I do not think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has the opportunity to state that from the platform. However, I would like to point out that graduation in many of the Master's degree programmes in the metropolitan area is down to 2 and 3 per cent. So, again, unfortunately, the facts are not with Enhedslisten's rapporteur. But I don't want it to take us apart. On the other hand, I would like to end my speaking time by asking the rapporteur whether it is the new fait accompli from the Enhedslisten that simply does not indicate how you want to pay for the political gift which you so often roll out on Danish students, citizens and users in general? Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120041	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120043	This is a very interesting question on the part of the rapporteur. First of all, I think it is a matter of principle whether students should pay a higher interest rate than the state receives for loans. I don't think they should. That's one part of it. The second is that, in relation to the financing, I would like to roll back the tax concessions the government has given to the very wealthiest Danes, and this will enable us to finance both a proper SU loan and also to finance a number of other improvements in the field of education, which the government has cut very heavily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120121	Sir. Henrik Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120125	Does Mrs Eva Flyvholm not recognise, or does Mrs Eva Flyvholm not recognise, that, in terms of achieving a high income from life, the best investment one can make in itself is to have a long higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120142	I think it is a very good investment both for the individual and for us as a society that young people take an education. That's a really good idea. What we are just pointing out here is that it is also a very good idea for the state to provide a sensible student loan that students can take up. We already have a very good model for this, but we can see that it has become out of date, because the discount rate has become very low, and that means that the state, which in many ways is really fine, is getting money on these SU loans right now. I cannot understand why the rapporteur will not help to adjust it. It is, of course, a typical concern of the Liberal Alliance that the state should not be able to obtain too much income.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120235	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120237	I, like Mrs Mette Reissmann, thank you for the proposal on what I can use my second question for, but I would like to use it on something else. Can the rapporteur and I agree, in respect of the matter, that a person who is in the process of putting himself in a situation where he is receiving an extremely high income from life is not a poor person?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120304	I think that what is absolutely crucial here is that it is not reasonable for students to be the ones who have to pass on a very high interest income to the state. The state should not make money by providing a sensible SU loan. What our proposal is about is that you as a student should be able to get a proper SU loan and that the state is not supposed to earn from it. That is what this is all about, and I think it is a very good and beneficial model to ensure that as many young people as possible take an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120339	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak either, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120400	The debate is open. And I give the floor first to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120427	Thank you. We are constantly exposed to various chemical substances, among others. our food, cosmetic products and hygiene products. It is precisely for this reason that it is important to focus both on human health and the environment and on responsible production and use of chemical substances, so that we get the benefits of chemistry without being exposed to the harmful effects. And that is something that is high not only on my agenda, but also in business, in the people, in the Folketing and in the European Union. The five motions for resolutions we are debating today are all about substances which, among other things, are: is suspected of being endocrine disrupting. My goal is a day-to-day life where we don't have to worry about endocrine disruptors. I firmly believe that EU rules provide the best consumer protection, because many of the products we use come from other EU countries, and therefore chemicals should be regulated in the EU. This is the most sensible both for consumers, so that they can feel safe and for businesses, so that there is a pan-European effort to protect the environment, which creates a level playing field. I would like to help ensure maximum Danish influence in the EU, among others. by having an active role in reducing the number of harmful chemical substances to which we are exposed. I am therefore pleased that the Danish EPA, together with the European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, has prepared a proposal for new restrictions on the content of four phthalates in consumer products, which we expect will result in regulation at EU level. In general, right now, I am working with several other EU countries to continue putting pressure on the Commission so that the pace of EU chemistry work is increased. This is also true in the work on establishing EU criteria for endocrine disruptors, which are the crunch in terms of getting the regulatory work going. Once we have identified the endocrine disruptors, we have created the basis for how best to manage them together. With their motion for a resolution B 37 the Enhedslisten has proposed that the government prohibit the use of toxic fluorinated substances in Denmark and that the government speed up the work for a ban throughout the EU. I agree with Enhedslisten that we must work to ensure that the use of problematic fluorinated substances is regulated throughout the European Union and also preferably internationally if they pose a risk. Chemistry crosses borders, and therefore common EU rules provide the best consumer protection. I therefore reject the proposal for a national ban on fluorinated substances. There are already harmonised rules in the EU for packaging. These rules say that substances must not be contaminated into the food in quantities which may endanger human health. This also applies to the fluorinated substances. Based on the latest assessment by the DTU Food Institute, I advise against their use in cardboard and paper packaging that is in contact with food. In the European Union, I will work together with other Member States for specific regulation of the fluorinated substances in cardboard and paper packaging, but we must remember that the fluorinated substances are also used in other consumer products. I am therefore pleased that, under both the Stockholm Convention and EU chemicals legislation REACH, there is an international focus on those substances. I would like to help speed up the process in the European Union, which is why I am already in contact with my European colleagues in order to put pressure on the Commission, while at the same time working to generate further knowledge on relevant substances, for example. They're fluorinated. I would like to congratulate the ambitious players in the Danish industry. The new guide for fluorinated substances in cardboard and paper packaging has led even more companies to actively work for the phasing-out of these substances in their packaging. In the textile industry, they are also examining suitable alternatives to the fluorinated substances in cooperation with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, although it is not quite so simple for textiles to find suitable alternatives with the same desired properties. Consumers can do much even to avoid the fluorinated substances. The simplest advice is to go for products with the eco-label Swan, where possible. Fluorinated substances may not be used in the swan-labelled products used in contact with food and textiles and in the packaging of cosmetics. I am very concerned that we are getting the best possible deal with the issues surrounding endocrine disruptors. That is why I hope that we will gather together on a joint effort, so that Denmark will take the lead in the work to get a strong EU regulation of those substances. On the basis of the motions for resolutions, I am willing to enter into dialogue with the Committee on a joint political effort to ensure a strengthened, targeted and comprehensive approach to substances of concern across the environment and food sectors, towards negotiations on a new joint chemical effort for 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120928	Thank you, Minister. One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408120935	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech. These are extremely dangerous substances that are persistent. This means that they are not broken down, but are accumulated in the human organism. Very high concentrations have been measured in women's breast milk, which means that infants in particular are exposed to substances associated with kidney disease and a number of endocrine disrupting effects. This is very serious. It is commendable that the Minister wants a joint effort. We can agree that the more countries that join, the better, we just cannot wait for the European Union. We know that the European Union has had a ban on its way and that industry has succeeded in watering it down completely. The minister mentioned the phthalates. We've known for 30 years that phthalates were dangerous. Now something's starting to happen. How long will the Minister wait for the European Union before the Minister comes into being and says: I am responsible for the Danish people and therefore I am introducing a ban in Denmark now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121036	Thank you for the question. As a minister, I have already entered into a position vis-à-vis the European Union in relation to the verdict given on the Commission just before Christmas. I've followed that up, and with one of them. Sweden, which had brought the trial on endocrine disruptors, has pushed the Commission, hopefully before the summer break, to deliver what they have to deliver around common standards in the European Union. So I've already done that. At the same time, we have fought a battle that has now resulted in the EU being on the road with a ban on the four phthalates. These are two very good examples. But the rapporteur must also bear in mind that a great deal of what affects Danish consumers when it comes to problematic substances comes from outside and not from home. That is why it is absolutely essential that we set common standards in the European Union for imported goods, and that is, of course, what the government is working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121130	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121131	Many of the substances we are exposed to in Denmark come from the consumer products we surround ourselves with in our community. It's not something that flies across the border and jumps into our food. Let's just make this clear. This area of fluorine in food contact materials is actually an area where we have the opportunity to do something. In fact, we have the opportunity to act within the existing legislation. I would like to congratulate the Minister for inviting the rapporteurs to the ministry for a review so that we know that we can actually act here. Because we want to show that we take seriously the health of the Danish population and that we are dealing with extremely dangerous substances that are present in far too high concentrations in food contact materials, in other words in materials that are in contact with the food we eat. This is fundamentally unacceptable, and that is why we need to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121225	Well, I believe that we are acting and that responsible parties in governments before this one has also acted. I am very aware that this is not something that dumps down from the sky and hits our food, but I think the rapporteurs are aware that a large part of the goods imported into this country may have problematic drug combinations, and that is why it is no use to create national bans that weaken Danish producers, but precisely ensure that the goods in a liquid layer to Denmark have standards that meet ours. The only sensible way to combat such problems is therefore to do so by means of cross-border cooperation, and when 5 million Danes can take the lead and contribute to new standards for 500 million European citizens, then we will solve a general problem. I am very concerned about this and that is why the government rejects the proposal from the Enhedslisten with the national special rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121316	It does not appear that anyone else has asked for the floor. Yes, sir. Christian Poll had indicated that he wanted the floor, but it had been pushed out again. Here you go, sir. Christian Poll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121322	Thank you. I just wanted to ask the Minister whether he feels secure about the balance of power that exists in the European Union between the chemical industry and consumer organisations, for example. reflected by the economic resources that these two fractions have in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121346	Thank you for a both sensible and relevant question. The fight against these problems is taking place, among other things. in the European Agency where Denmark is represented via, inter alia: The Environmental Protection Agency, and the stakeholders for which we have to look after the interests, are the consumers, it is us as citizens, and it takes place under a national regime. Whether interest groups and industry then have equal resources to conduct a public agenda I would like to be quite honest and say that I am not so concerned about. What I am concerned about is that the work we do at government level, in conjunction with the institutions that are in the European Union, takes place without problems both in terms of capacity and the like, and, of course, also with consumers in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121430	Sir. Christian Poll, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121432	However, the Minister does not recognise that the work that is going on in the European Union and that is preparatory to this official work down there will be much more strongly dominated by the chemicals industry, because they have so many more resources to influence the process with than, for example, with. consumer organisations or environmental organisations that may also have an interest in protecting nature, consumers and the environment from chemical pressures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121507	I am now of the opinion that it is very sensible to vote with your feet. And people who are not just part of the industry but are part of the organisations of interest can organise themselves according to good civil society principles, and there are far more citizens in the European Union than there are industrial producers, so I am quite confident that if you want to vote with your feet, you also have that opportunity. I have seen that there are certain places in this world where, through social media and similar means, we can mobilize even large amounts of people and also too small amounts of money can raise problems, and that is also possible under the auspices of the European Union. So I'm not worried about it. What I am most concerned about is that we work at government level in conjunction with the governments we have and in the forums within the European Union in relation to raising the issue, and I think that is something that I think, among other things. that today's history in Jyllands-Posten about the coming ban on the four phthalates is the best example of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121559	Then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121602	Thank you. It is just to understand the Minister quite correctly, because I think it was a very relevant question, as Mr. Christian Poll asked. I believe that we all know that lobbying is taking place both at home and at EU level, and it can be good and bad to get input from outside. But does the Minister believe that the lobbying that is taking place at EU level by a number of companies which, of course, have their own interests • it is clear that there are no consequences and have no influence? Does the Minister believe that there are no consequences or influences from the lobbying that is taking place at EU level and that this does not also have any consequences in terms of legislative work? I just need to be absolutely sure that I understand the Minister correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121652	Thank you for the question. I therefore believe that this has a bearing on the political awareness of the relationship between producer interests and consumer protection. But when it comes to the exact part of e.g. ECHA, where the Danish Government is represented via the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the like, is of course the scientific basis in relation to the consumer's protection which is essential. So you could say that there are two forums where things like this are going on. Of course, lobbying has an impact, whether it is borne by green organisations or producer organisations, versus the fact that there is a job in the registered fora during government work, where you have a complete arm's length principle and also the principle of whether you are not incompetent in the work on the authorisation of substances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121744	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, second brief remark? No, it's fine. Then no one else has asked for brief comments, and we thank the Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Socialist Group in the European Parliament. Malte Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121814	Thank you. With motion for a resolution B 37 the government is required to put forward a legislative proposal banning the use of toxic fluorine in Denmark and at the same time speeding up work on a general ban in the EU. A ban on harmful substances, for example. The Socialists are very concerned about toxic fluorine substances. In Denmark we have invested massively in research in this area, and we have great knowledge and expertise, and therefore Denmark must also take the lead in the fight against harmful substances. We fully share Enhedslisten's concern for consumers in this matter. It is absolutely essential that consumers are protected against harmful substances and chemicals, and that is why we also support the intention of the proposal. But the Danish consumers are thus best protected by common EU regulation, and that is why we in the Socialists believe that we should pursue the international track as much as we can. The Socialists therefore support speeding up work on a general ban on the use of toxic fluorine in the EU, but we do not believe that the best solution is a national ban. We should fight for a common EU regulation before we introduce Danish special rules. Against this background, the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution. I have been allowed to greet the Radicals on this matter and say that they agree with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121933	Two have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408121939	I think this is exciting, because the Socialists praise the researchers and the researchers recommend that we ban it in food contact materials. Are the Socialists impressed, or are they not? This is an area where we can actually make national special rules, and it's nonsense to say that if we make rules in Denmark, Danish consumers are not protected. Of course they are, because then you can't sell these things in Denmark, finished work. So I just can't understand that logic. Then we look to the European Union, which, although working on a ban, which has been heavily influenced by industrial interests, is now totally watered down. Why do we stand here and do not want to take responsibility for protecting the Danish people and refer to the European Union when we can see that it is a process that takes decades? These are serious substances; they accumulate in breast milk, they are endocrine disruptors, they are carcinogenic, they are related to a number of diseases from which we are responsible for protecting the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122043	I don't in any way question your concerns or your knowledge or your talk about what this has to do with consequences. I am just saying that the international EU track is better for consumers than national legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122105	Just for the sake of good order, I must stress that we do not use direct indictment in the Folketing, we should refer to it as, for example, the rapporteur or the person by name.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122117	Thank you. One does not exclude the other. Nobody says that by making a national ban we do not need to be interested in what is happening in the European Union. We are all interested in bringing as many countries as possible. So the two things are not in conflict with each other at all. However, we can see how long the European Union is going to take. It's gonna take decades. The phthalates are an excellent example. We've known it was dangerous for 30 years. Maybe something's starting to happen. How long do the Socialists have patience with the fluorine substances, which are so dangerous before they are prepared to intervene in relation to the Danish population?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122200	Our concern is really high in this area, and that is why we choose to pursue the EU track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122206	There is a further brief comment. It's from sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122211	Thank you. I just wanted to hear the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, if the rapporteur cannot recognise that some of the things that are putting pressure on the EU process are that when nation states go ahead and show the way and make rules for themselves, i.e. in this case, for example. Denmark, what is often seen is that the process is further accelerated in the EU and that it can then become general EU rules. So that is precisely the mechanism that can push.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122248	I would like to acknowledge that this may be the case. I just think that in this case it is better for us to push through the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122257	No one else has asked for short remarks, so I thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122310	Thank you. The proposal that Enhedslisten makes here is very relevant. Fluorinated substances are substances that shed water and fat, and they are used among other things. therefore for food packaging of cardboard and paper and for impregnation of textiles and shoes. The problem with these drugs is that they are difficult to break down and that they accumulate in people and in the environment. That's why it's important that we work hard to phase out the use of these drugs. In this context, I would just like to point out that the Danish Food Authority has never found fluorinated substances in food in harmful amounts. The DTU Food Institute has been researching the use of these substances since 2006, and the research and knowledge obtained by the DTU Food Institute and its international network of companies, consumer organisations and authorities has formed the basis for the limit value established by the Institute and introduced in Denmark. The limit value is based on scientific data and is practical for companies and control authorities. The Institute cooperates with the industry to find alternatives to the use of fluorinated substances. The Danish Food Authority recommends that no fluorinated substances are used for the manufacture or treatment of cardboard and paper with food contact. It was then in autumn 2015 that the guide limit value was set here with the aim of helping companies choose packaging without added fluorinated substances. It is very positive to see that the industry itself is interested in following the guide limit value. After the Consumer Council Think of having tested products here recently, where the packaging contained flouring substances, the companies concerned have changed or phased out the paper type. Danish Packaging Industry already announced in 2014 that they will voluntarily work to phase out fluorinated substances in their products. The joker by a definite ban is that these substances are replaced here with some others that have just as harmful effects. Therefore, a limit value is the best solution at present. I am sure that companies will do everything they can to comply with the indicative limit values, among others. by making demands on their suppliers in the EU. The Danish People's Party agrees that work to achieve common EU rules is very important. This will provide the best protection for consumers and more equal conditions of competition for the professions concerned. The Danish People's Party will then propose that we in the committee have a resolution in which we instruct the government to press for common EU rules as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122615	Thank you to the rapporteur. One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122621	I would just like to say that when you talk about persistent substances, it can be very difficult to assess whether it is in harmful levels of health, especially when it accumulates in fatty tissue and is therefore passed on to infants. It's just to make it clear. We can easily make a report that obliges the government to work for common EU rules, but will the Danish People's Party still work with Enhedslisten to ensure that national rules do not happen at EU level, because we are responsible for the Danish population, and because the Danish People's Party shares Enhedslisten's skepticism that is my view of the EU's incredibly slow behaviour when it comes to chemical substances? So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree to this proposal and that we will, of course, take the lead at national level if the European Union does not want to take action against these drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122714	The Danish People's Party agrees that we need to speed up this process. It is no use having 10, 20, 30 years with this from the European Union. So I think we should sit together in committee and make a report, but I will not conclude anything right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122730	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122733	Nevertheless, it may be sensible to make a statement here from Parliament's platform, because the EU is in reverse. The EU had a proposal ready. It was influenced by the industry, which spends hundreds of millions on influencing the European Union not to intervene against the drugs on which they make money. That is why we have come up with a watered-down proposal. Is this satisfactory for the Danish People's Party? So, the rapporteur says that we must not take 10 or 20 years, so could we narrow it down a little? Since we are talking about such extremely dangerous substances, can the time horizon be slightly shorter than 10 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122811	I hope so. But we also just have to say in relation to such things here, where it is so important for so many, especially for consumers, but also for those professions that have to phase out these products, that you have to base it on scientific data. But that is not to say that I do not think we should make a report which can require us to look again at the limit values or call for it. The rapporteur is also aware that I am so new in this that I do not quite know the procedure in it. I'm very interested that we're gonna get something done about this, and it's not gonna be that many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122900	There is another one that has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122905	Thank you. As with the previous rapporteur, I would like to hear the rapporteur here from the Danish People's Party, if it is not precisely this mechanism in which a Member State, such as the United Kingdom, is involved. Denmark takes the first steps and shows the way, and there is, moreover, often a positive side effect, by making the Danish business community the first to find substitutes for these substances, which are what can push the European Union, so that we can have the development in the European Union that we would like to see, and that this proposal from the Enhedslisten proposes the two-stage rocket, i.e. that we take the lead in Denmark and at the same time increase the pressure on the European Union, among other things. using the mechanism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408122951	I agree with that, because we have done it before with bisphenol A, so I fully agree with that, but I also believe that when we have so far established an indicative limit value that has been set as it is, it is also pushing foreign EU suppliers in cardboard and paper to follow our rules, because otherwise we cannot get it in, or we can do that, but we have said that we have an indicative limit value and it must be respected, and most consumers will also look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123028	Sir. Christian Poll does not wish to make another brief comment, but there is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123035	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur the following: until this EU ban might come, what is DF's position on what to do until then at home? In other words, should more money be spent on consumer information, on labelling, on research? If we are to wait for the European Union, what are we going to do in the meantime from home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123102	We have already set aside money for research at the DTU Food Institute, so we are doing a great deal already. Are there any processes that need to be speeded up? Possibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123118	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen does not wish to make use of her right to another brief remark. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123133	Thank you. Today we have a number of motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten on proposals which are described as a chemical package. The first proposal concerns a proposal to ban toxic fluorine, and I am pleased that we have the opportunity today to discuss a subject which is of concern to all of us. Both politicians and consumers, of course, are interested in how best to protect ourselves from harmful chemicals that we have close to us and that we are bypassing. The chemical sector gives rise to a wide-ranging discussion. Today we have proposals which concern both chemicals in food and other consumer products. We have the chemicals close to us every day, but that does not mean that we have to worry about all the objects we associate with, but of course we have to worry about those that may be harmful. The assessment of chemicals is carried out in relation to different risk targets. In the European Union, we have a system in which chemicals are continuously investigated and those chemicals which are deemed to present a significant hazard are banned. Through this system there are fewer and fewer of the most harmful chemicals, and that is good. We must continue to work to increase protection against harmful chemicals. The differences are basically due to the way in which we believe the challenges must be tackled and raised. Our Minister for the Environment and Food is continuously in contact with the European Commission and is struggling to ban certain harmful chemicals in the European Union, but when we work for a ban, the European Union requires that we be able to document the harmfulness of the chemicals. We need to be able to prove that there is a need for new bans and the professional basis must be in place for that. In the Left, we will continue to work on making EU solutions. This makes sense, because Denmark is an integral part of the European market, and the bans that apply in other EU countries are also crucial for consumers here in Denmark. Denmark has already introduced measures to ban a number of chemicals, and we have given priority to chemical efforts, which we have among other things. In the latest food agreement and with the chemical efforts of 2014. Fortunately, we all seem to have a desire to address the problems, and the Left is looking at chemicals and endocrine disruptors in the context. We look at combination effects, we look at possible substitutes, in other words we look at the professional basis and work for comprehensive pan-European agreements. We face the reality when the European Commission does not accept Danish or national exclusive rights by certain prohibitions that the Enhedslisten otherwise proposes with this and other motions for resolutions. Solutions must be found at European level and, in view of this, we in the Left cannot support the resolution before us either, but hopefully look forward to a good dialogue in the future in committee to follow up the challenges we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123445	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are three who have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123452	I would like to start by stating to the rapporteur that there is absolutely no doubt that these substances are dangerous. No one really disagrees about that. Then the rapporteur also mentions, like the previous rapporteurs and the Minister, that we have to choose the EU track. I repeat: it does not contradict the fact that we are also following a national path. The rapporteur goes so far as to say that the European Union will never accept it alone. It's factually wrong. We in Denmark have banned the dangerous substance bisphenol A in sucking bottles. When the European Union had to take a stand on our own, the ban was imposed in all EU countries. We still have special rules for bisphenol A in all food contact materials for young children. We have special rules when it comes to parabens. So it is simply not true that the European Union does not accept it. On the contrary, we have seen that we can push the European Union to become more ambitious in the field of chemistry when we take the lead. So this is a political decision. Will you take the fight for the Danish consumers, or will you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123601	As I have listened to the debate so far, all parties take these issues very seriously and seriously, and in the Left we believe that we will make the most of it by having joint discussions, including in committee and subsequently with the Minister, and then, together, having followed up with the European Union in this way. So that's the lead we're gonna lay on. I can hear that there are others who do too, and it may not be surprising that the Left's interpretation may not always be quite identical with that of the Enhedslisten. It doesn't seem to be in this case either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123636	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123639	But it is not in conflict with each other. Does the rapporteur recognise that while we are working for the EU track, can we also do something in Denmark? This is pretty banal. It is not the case that because of the introduction of special rules, which we can do; precisely in relation to the flouring substances and food contact materials, there are opportunities within the rules in force in the European Union for us to go ahead and then there will be a conflict. It is about whether we are prepared to make some decisions to protect Danish consumers from dangerous chemical substances or not. That is really what the Left and the rapporteur have to decide here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123722	After all, we are doing something here in Denmark, and the Minister is doing something. After all, there has just been an invitation to review matters, including in the Ministry. And then I think it's a really good way, if I may say so, to get it as close as possible to the body, so we get these issues all the way under the skin. So something is being done, and the best starting point for moving forward is that which I have already answered, and I think that is to have some joint discussions in committee and then sort out the trail from there. So in the Left, we take these issues seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123755	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123758	Thank you. I'd like to ask Sir. Erling Bonnesen the same question that I asked Mrs Lise Bech, namely: While we are waiting for a ban from the European Union, is there anything more we can do from here? There are some areas that the rapporteur would like to point out where we can tighten up more closely, for example. to give the consumer better opportunities to navigate it? It's pretty hard to look at the back of a number of products and see all these concepts. It's a jungle for ordinary people. So is there anything concrete we can do while we wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123837	Well, I have already answered overall on an EU track, so I will not repeat that. But when we come to committee we can appropriately try to ask ourselves whether there are some things we can do about it that can be informational or otherwise that do not conflict with the hope that we will have a common track to follow up on this, so that we have an overall EU track for it, one can say, but ask ourselves: is there anything else that can be done without these things coming into conflict with each other? Well, let's try to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123906	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123908	In the SF, we have long been advocating and also making proposals on this, unfortunately there was no majority in favour of a labelling system, where we simply agree on a way of defining what are endocrine disruptors, what are fluorinated substances, etc., and simply create a very easy labeling or labelling system to make it easier for consumers to navigate. Would that be something the Left could consider?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408123941	Now there are some goods and products that are large in scope, so there can be room for many brands, but then there are other goods that are not fit for so many brands on. And we already have a lot of marks. You should never rule out anything in an analysis phase, but we should also be careful that we don't get the patch all together with many different brands • because you also have to finish shopping or whatever you're doing. But I don't want to rule anything out in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124006	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124010	Thank you. I have just heard that the rapporteur, in her reply to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, mentioned that we could work with information. And there I just want to start by sharing my concern, because I am a chemical engineer myself, but I would very much not have to stand when I have to buy products and look at long chemical terms, although I actually understand what it says, because it is so complex that of course you cannot do that as a consumer. But my question to the rapporteur is really more about the mechanism when we put pressure on Denmark by going alone, or whatever you call it. In other words, when we make our own rules first, it is one of the things that can push a process forward in the European Union. And then there's this side effect, which is also very interesting, which means that when we go first in Denmark, our business community can also be the first to substitute these problematic substances for some less problematic substances and thus be at the forefront when it comes to the European Union some years later. Is it not an interesting mechanism that should be pursued more?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124118	In general, however, I have already indicated that we in the Left believe that we should follow the EU path. However, it is also worth noting, as the Minister also mentioned in his reply a little earlier on phthalates, that there is also cooperation between Danish authorities and EU authorities which results in a proposal. So something is happening in this area, and that is why it also underlines the importance of sticking to the European Union's track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124142	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124143	But the EU track is extremely slow. It takes years to come up with these joint decisions, and that is where we can push the process and make it go faster, that is, if we go first in Denmark and show that we can actually have a well-functioning society, a well-functioning business environment, even if there are special bans on some of the dangerous substances. Isn't that a sensible mechanism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124209	Well, somewhere you can also say that Denmark is taking the lead in the proposal to which the Minister has also just referred, in the field of phthalates, where EU authorities and Danish authorities come together with a proposal which is now to be examined. It is actually very good with each other, so it just underlines to me the importance of sticking to the European Union's track in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124231	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124241	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of these five motions for resolutions which we are debating today. This has given us all a good opportunity to become more familiar with the area, and when we talk chemistry, it is difficult. That is why we also need to thank the Minister for the opportunity for this technical review by the Ministry, which at least some of the rapporteurs used the other day. The Liberal Alliance is completely at the same level as all Danes and thus also like all parties in the Danish Parliament were very concerned about harmful chemical substances in our daily lives. This is precisely why the Liberal Alliance is generally in favour of Danish legislation in the field of environment and chemistry reflecting EU legislation, partly because it simply provides the best consumer protection, partly because Denmark would create a competitive situation for producers in Denmark with special legislation, with the result that possible pollution from production would move with jobs out of the country. That would not be rational, nor would it change anything for the Danish consumer. However, the Liberal Alliance, like the proposer, also believes that the process towards relevant, general EU rules should be intensified. I also think it is very gratifying that the government, as one of the first after its accession, has introduced an indicative limit value for paper and cardboard and has thus succeeded several other EU countries. As I understand it, the proposed indicative limit value is actually even very ambitious and very low, lower than the general background level for paper produced entirely without the use of fluorinated substances. The industry has also been aware of this specific problem for a long time, and work on finding non-harmful alternatives is well under way. Finally, I also think it is important to bear in mind that, as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also mentioned earlier, the Danish Food Safety Authority has not been able to detect levels of fluorinated substances in food that are harmful to health, although they have been wrapped in packaging containing fluorinated substances. The Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124527	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124531	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We then share the concern. However, will the rapporteur not acknowledge, given that this EU track is being given a great deal of attention, that we in Denmark have actually managed to push through more ambitious legislation in the past by taking the lead in Denmark? We have done so on bisphenol A, we have done so on parabens. And there is no doubt that our very active actor in relation to phthalates, which, moreover, was based on a resolution we discussed back here in 2010, has also helped to ensure that something is happening in the European Union. So unless you think that you should just keep waiting and wait for the EU to come up with some rules, could it not be a solution that, for the sake of Danish consumers, we took the lead in Denmark when we can see that it is working?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124628	Thank you for the question. In fact, I also believe that the current government is doing something. And, as I mentioned in my speech just now, this indicative limit value has been introduced, and it can be said that this is the lead, even if it is in the European Union's tracks. It is then even chosen to follow other EU countries and, as I understand from the Minister in the past, further efforts are being made to bring together Member States to introduce general tough regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124701	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124704	After all, the guide limit value is not being followed. Food contact materials have been examined and can be seen to be too high in concentrations and there is no sanction option because it is merely indicative. So if we are serious about these substances being dangerous, which hopefully none of us disagree with, then we have to do something else as well. Then we have to say that they should not be here at all in harmful concentrations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124728	As I said, I also believe that something is happening. And as far as I can understand from the Minister, there is also a close dialogue with the industry and other food producers in this area in order to find non-harmful alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124743	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. Sir. Christian Poll from the Alternative is the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408124753	Thank you. I believe that a great many consumers believe that chemicals are completely controlled in everyday life. I don't quite believe that. The thing is, we may have up to 200,000 chemicals out there. We know a small fraction of them in detail, and we know a little more of them superficially, but there are major problems in regulating the very many chemicals that we are dealing with. This is happening at EU level in the chemicals legislation of the European Union, the so-called REACH, and in that scheme we are experiencing a lot of problems, huge delays, things that have had to be in place several years ago, which continue to be delayed, shortcomings in documentation coming from companies that have to document the properties of chemicals, and then, as I have already said in this debate, I believe that the chemicals industry has very great powers in the European Union in relation to the lobbying efforts that consumer organisations can make. So it is really important that in Denmark and other countries that want to take the lead, we actually take the lead in taking some of the steps that we see can later become general legislation for the whole of the European Union. I should like to mention that, for example: combination effects, i.e. that several chemicals can enhance each other's harmful effects when you ingest them simultaneously or get them simultaneously into the body, is also one of those big jokers, to which there is no general answer. One final point I would like to mention is that Danish industry, with rules from Danish hands, and we have seen this in many other situations, will have a special opportunity to take the lead with a substitution and in this way will actually also have an advantage in terms of the market, economically, when the rules are then introduced at EU level a few years later. So I believe that there is very good reason to be positive about the Enhedslisten's chemical package here, and the alternative supports both that we are at the forefront of Denmark and that we are working to have strong, sustained pressure on EU chemicals policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125026	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. Next is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125042	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make a few general comments, because the five motions for resolutions we are debating today deal with the same subject, namely dangerous chemistry. On the part of the SF, we think that these are very commendable proposals from the Enhedslisten. We are co-sponsors of one of the next proposals we are considering. In the past we have really tried to get hormone disruptors on the agenda, including under the SR government, with a number of proposals, also for funding. It is absolutely right, as my colleagues from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have said, that the EU track is, of course, the most optimal track, but it is also extremely slow, and the EU system is subject to an enormous amount of lobbying, which I do not really think the Minister recognised to a large extent how important it is. It is time to put a lid on and put an end date for the use of chemical substances which are carcinogenic, which are mutagenic and toxic to reproduction and development, the so-called CMR substances. And the SF has also tabled a motion for a resolution to oblige the government to work for the phasing out of CMR substances in the EU within maximum. 10 years by a legal obligation to replace dangerous substances. The industry can act if a time lock is put on the jar of dangerous chemistry. At the same time, Denmark must strive to dismantle the CMR substances nationally with all available means and, together with other countries, challenge EU regulation and the European Commission. The SF motion for a resolution, like the proposals in the Chemistry Package from the Enhedslisten, is at the same time a dispute with the false thinking that limit values for dangerous substances alone provide safety and protection for the population and the environment. In relation to the specific resolution here, B 37, the fluorine substances are already on the EU's agenda, so there is good reason to go further with national bans to speed up the process and put pressure on it. And we are in favour of the proposal with the curl that we also believe that a proposal for a Danish ban will be supported very well if, at the same time, we can get other countries to join in proposing the same thing. But basically, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125315	One person has asked for a brief comment. Mrs. Gjerding of the Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125319	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. We all agree on a lot of things in this area. In the past, we have, in fact, taken the lead in all the parties in the red block compared to bisphenol A in a number of proposals on parabens, phthalates. So our cooperation over the past many years has produced results, not only in Denmark, but also at EU level, as I have already mentioned. Therefore, it makes very good sense that we continue to maintain this pressure both to ensure national special rules, but also, of course, to ensure an EU track. I just have to be absolutely sure that I understand the rapporteur: does the SF intend to vote in favour of this proposal on fluorine?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125359	The reason I said that, as a starting point, we are positive about this specific resolution is that we would also like to clarify in the process before we vote whether we could get other EU countries to put simultaneous pressure on that too. Now I am not going to be too technical, but there is something in the order in which the Enhedslisten has formulated his motion for a resolution, which we believe could actually be reversed, but I would also like to ask about this in committee, i.e. whether the Enhedslisten will be willing to look at some of the wordings. We basically fully agree with the intention and criticism that it is not only possible to refer to the EU track, because, as the rapporteur himself has said, it is subject to such massive lobbying and slowness, and because the consequences, the health and reproductive consequences of many of these substances, are so serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125503	Mrs. Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125504	So I understand, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has also pointed out, that in committee we are trying to reach a report in which we set a deadline for how long we are focusing on the EU track and then we may be able to make national special rules at that time if nothing has happened on the EU track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125523	Yeah, sure. It could be a very good method for that, and then again to look at, yes, exactly the order of what we are doing. However, I fully agree with the questioner, as the rapporteur for the Alternative has also said, that this is so serious and that we have seen good examples in the past of the fact that when we take the lead, something happens in the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125552	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125606	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for raising the debate. I think it's relevant. It is a very important issue that we ensure that a whole lot of substances that are harmful to people and to the environment do not flourish. Therefore, we would also like to continue working on defining whether there are any substances that should be banned in Denmark, which is not today. We would also like to ensure that progress is made in relation to this European Union track, so that we ensure that it does not just go on talking, but that some progress is actually made. I do not feel like a politician dressed up to stand in this Chamber and ban certain drugs. I simply do not understand that; I am neither a chemist nor a biologist nor any other expert on these substances, so that I think it could be a political decision which we could just make through a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly. It has to be experts who assess which substances should be permitted or prohibited. Of course, it can ultimately be a political decision, one has to base itself on some professionalism and on some people who understand it. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's many proposals here today, which go in concrete and ban certain substances without a very thorough process. However, we would like to talk about whether we might be able to speed up some of the work that might be involved in evaluating more of these substances, and we will look forward to that discussion in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125750	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125753	Now I'm not a chemist or a biologist either, and that's why we in the Enhedslist are oriented towards what the researchers say. We are leading in Denmark in research into these very problems. That is also why, in the comments made in the proposal, we have referred to the fact that international researchers are exactly recommending a ban. So I can assure the rapporteur that the proposal we are debating now has a solid technical hang-up. Right now, there are a number of shortcomings in the EU regulatory system on these substances, because they do not take into account the cocktail effects, that is, the way in which the many different substances we are exposed to play together. What we then have to decide politically is whether to use a precautionary principle and say: until it is in place in the EU system, we take responsibility because right now we can measure the bodies of the Danish population that there is an excessively high level of dangerous substances. And this is especially true of our children. It simply exceeds what scientists and experts recommend. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: now that there are technical constraints, as the rapporteur has said, will the rapporteur not reconsider contributing to a report which a number of the other rapporteurs have mentioned, where we say that if we do not succeed in the EU track, we will do something because we take responsibility for the health of the Danish population?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408125919	We take the view that we will talk to the Minister and the Ministry and the experts who are over there to see if we can speed up the process. That is what we want to promote. If we can make a report in this direction, then I will not rule it out. I have no doubt that Enhedslisten has read a lot of experts' assessments of these drugs. I do not think that this is something that has been taken out of thin air or that is without any professionalism, but when we are dealing with drugs it is always possible to find someone who says one thing and some who says another. There are certainly many different studies which do not necessarily draw exactly the same conclusions. There we need an overall assessment of all the research results. We also need to know whether the studies that have been carried out have been thorough enough. I can't make that assessment myself. I can't just pick a few articles and then get an opinion from it. There needs to be a more thorough evaluation involving all available research, and we also need to look, before making decisions, at whether we have an ignorance in some areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130028	There is massive scientific evidence and alternatives are available, so it is not necessary that extremely dangerous substances associated with a number of diseases should be in materials that come into contact with the food we eat. It is not necessary, it is not a law of nature, we can choose to do something else. So there are alternatives, and there is massive scientific research that supports that this is dangerous. Is that not enough for the Conservative People's Party to say: we need to ensure that within a foreseeable period of time action is taken against the type of chemicals that affect the health of the Danish population to such an extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130109	I agree that decisions must be taken within a clear timescale. It's not gonna be 10 years from now or 5 years from now, is it? Something must be done within a reasonable timescale. But my problem is that I only have Mrs Reumert Gjerding's words in favour of massive research which clearly shows this here, and that is why I have to have some more neutral people who, on a professional basis, assess the overall research and give me an evaluation of it before I can take a position on it. I do not think we, as politicians, can sit and say that we believe that certain substances are harmful, because we do not understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130142	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130145	Thank you. I just wanted to hear from the rapporteur whether he feels comfortable with the balance of power that exists at EU level in relation to the lobbying that is taking place on chemicals policy, that is, that the chemicals industry has very large resources and spends them on that work compared with non-profit organisations trying to protect consumers and the environment from chemicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130213	I don't know if I can answer that. I mean, I'm not as educated as the rapporteur himself in that area. I think that the rapporteur has been dealing with this for many years, and I am glad to hear lectures from that edge if there is anything you think I should know there. But I am comfortable with it if we start a process in Denmark, where we talk to the Ministry and as politicians we can choose which experts we would like to listen to; then I am confident that we can organise a process that is neutral enough for us to be able to make decisions on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130248	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. And the next is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130309	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution we are debating right now is part of a major chemical package that Enhedslisten has put forward and which we are going to spend this afternoon discussing. This specific proposal is about banning dangerous fluorine substances. The proposal will require the government to introduce a ban on these fluorine substances in Denmark and, at the same time, to work towards the introduction of a ban at EU level. Fluorinated substances are chemical substances that are very dangerous. Among other things, chains are chained. In addition to chronic kidney disease, the development of breast cancer, sperm quality impairment and female fertility impairment. Recent studies have also shown that the fluorine substances are present in high concentrations in breast milk and are thus transferred from the mother to the newborn child. There is reason to take the threat from these substances deeply seriously and make efforts from the political level to protect the population from substances that are so dangerous. In this context, it is also quite worrying that these substances are currently allowed to be used in a great many consumer products. We find them in food contact materials, that is. in materials that come close to the food we eat. We find them in rainwear, rubber boots and other things. That's because the fluorine substances have very special properties. They're water-repellent, they're fat-repellent. And that's why perhaps before you knew how dangerous they were in reality it was thought sensible to put them in food paper, in baking paper, in muffin molds, in easy-steep pans and all other things in the world, where it makes sense that water and fat easily bounce off. The combination of the dangers of the substances with the broad use, i.e. that they exist in very many products with which we come into contact, has led researchers to recommend that they be phased out in consumer products and used only for things where they are absolutely necessary. They are therefore essential neither in baking paper, in muffin molds nor on frying pans. And that's why we're standing here. Several of the rapporteurs have said that we have to wait for the European Union to lead. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree that the more countries we get on a ban, the more people we protect and the easier it will be for companies that have to import products to orient themselves. However, we cannot wait for the EU process. It is quite obvious that the European Union is so influenced by the interests of industry. A restrictive ban was therefore ready, but it was watered down after consultation with the industry. We need to put public health considerations above those of the chemical industry. That's just the way it is. And if we mean it, we are not waiting for the European Union. I am very sorry that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal as it stands now. It has not been my impression in the past that the Danish People's Party paid tribute to the European Union and thought that it was they who should be fluctuating the tactics in relation to when we should politically intervene and protect the population from dangerous chemicals. We have previously stood with the Danish People's Party to ban the carcinogenic substance bisphenol A in products for young children. This helped push the European Union in the right direction. We have previously, together with the Danish People's Party, banned parabens in products for young children. This means that we now have special rules and that the European Union is about to introduce them into the rest of the European Union. In fact, by taking the lead, we are helping to push a European process and to ensure that all European citizens receive higher protection. I do not understand if the Danish People's Party has now chosen a different line in relation to dangerous chemicals and the European Union. I also think it is important to emphasise that in my questions I have also mentioned that there is actually room for manoeuvre when it comes to food contact materials, and I think we should make use of that. I sense an outstretched hand, partly from the Danish People's Party, and I very much hope that the line from the SF will be reconsidered in relation to the fact that we are trying to land a report, perhaps also a little from the Conservatives, which can oblige the government to take an active part in this in relation to the European Union. And if we fail to do so, I hope that we in the committee will be able to discuss it and arrive at a solution in Denmark. Because we can't wait. Exposure to dangerous substances is far too high. A very short time ago, a comprehensive study was made of the Danish population, which showed that everyone has these endocrine disruptors in their bodies and that children have it to a very special degree. We need to take this seriously. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130841	There are a few who would like to have brief comments, and the first is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130849	Thank you. I do like the rhetoric of the rapporteur, because one can really feel that the rapporteur is passionate about this. But perhaps I also think that in some way I feel obliged to respond, because if we now have these five cases today, I would say that the disagreement I think there is really between the parties in Denmark is very, very small. But I think you simply want to run two different tracks. It is really positive when Enhedslisten raises such matters because you are just pushing a system. However, everything else equal is what I would like to ask whether the Enhedslisten does not believe that we should protect the citizens in real terms and not just as a signal. When I ask, it is in relation to some of these substances that are mentioned in these motions for resolutions, and if we are really to protect our citizens, we really must also ban imports into the European Union or into Denmark for a lot of goods. Does the rapporteur consider this to be realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408130954	We've done this before, so of course it's realistic. That is what we did when we banned bisphenol A. Then we were no longer allowed to sell or import sucking bottles containing bisphenol A. Then the Danish children were protected from a endocrine disruptor and carcinogenic and extremely dangerous substance. When we then extended the ban to all contact materials, suddenly, for a short period, baby food could no longer be bought in the supermarkets until the companies had replaced bisphenol A with something else. I remember that because I had a baby at the time. Fortunately, that was a short time, because then the companies found another solution. The alternatives exist. There are none of the proposals we are dealing with today where there are no alternatives, so it is possible to push on, and of course it is realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131040-2	When I ask, it is because some of the proposals that are being discussed today include, for example: plastic softeners, which are used in wires, etc., and part of what is being produced, among other things. on television, is produced out in Asia, and that is why the lead we have put in the Danish People's Party is that we say: Well, if this is to be realistic, that is to say something real to consumers, it may well be that we have to make a ban, but then the EU is everything else just a bigger market than Denmark, one can say, and that is why we believe more on the EU track, despite the fact that we are certainly not enthusiastic about the European Union. I will hurry to say that, because it has nothing to do with it at all. But it is perhaps more a question of thinking what is realistic or not. That is just why I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this particular point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131128	Now I don't think this is about faith. This isn't about choosing which track you want to follow, because we can easily follow both tracks. I find it absolutely sobering that we have previously banned Denmark, which the European Union has subsequently followed, that is. That, by taking the lead, you can press for better protection for all EU citizens for the benefit of a lot of people and for businesses. So it is not a either-or, but it is clear that if we ban something, we will give an advantage to those companies that have taken responsibility in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131203	The next brief remark is the request made by Mr Seligman. Malte Larsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131208	I will try to see if I can understand the rapporteur correctly. Earlier today, the rapporteur mentioned that the industry had posted hundreds of millions of dollars in lobbying on this issue. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131225	EU lobbyists, chemical lobbyists, have posted hundreds of millions in influencing the EU system in relation to chemicals in general. I think that is relatively well known.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131238	I think it is very interesting, and I would also like to have those documentation from my own curiosity, so if the rapporteur can help me with that, I would very much like them. But I understand that it was in this particular case, and I do not think I could understand that anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131254	I think it may be very difficult to deal with matters, but I actually have a number of articles in my place which I can share with the rapporteur already today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131303	Then we thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131326	The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131352	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to address the issue of bisphenol A and say that phasing out endocrine disruptors is very dear to the government and to me, and I will work to protect consumers from harmful substances. But it is also important that we look for a sustainable solution. With their motion for a resolution, B 38, the Enhedslisten has proposed that the government should work for a ban on bisphenol A in food contact materials in the EU and that the government should introduce special rules in Denmark until the EU ban comes into force. I agree with Enhedslisten that we must work for stricter rules for bisphenol A in food contact materials across the EU and that these rules must also include other harmful bisphenols, for example. However, I do not believe that banning bisphenol A in all food contact materials in Denmark is a viable solution. First, safe alternatives to all uses of bisphenol A are not available. Therefore, there is a risk that bisphenol A may be replaced by something that has not been investigated at all. Secondly, we risk losing a possible case before the European Court of Justice if we introduce Danish special rules in this area. The Commission has proposed a new low limit value which will apply to both plastics and varnishes. There will therefore be no possibility of introducing national special rules for plastics and varnishes. Thirdly, I want to work for good consumer protection for all European citizens, which is why I believe that EU rules are the way forward. I therefore reject the proposal. However, I agree with the objective of phasing out the problematic substances, including bisphenol A, and I will work in the European Union for the most restrictive regulation of bisphenol A in food contact materials as possible. I am therefore also pleased that the Commission is working to introduce a limit value which is a factor 12 lower than the current one for plastics and that, as something new, it will also apply to varnishes, for example. the inside varnish in cans. The DTU Food Institute has examined five bisphenol A analogue substances, i.e. substances with the same basic structure, such as bisphenol F and S, and concludes that they have the potential to interfere with hormones in line with bisphenol A. Business in Denmark has indicated to the Danish Food Authority that they do not consider the other bisphenols as e.g. F and S to be safe alternatives to bisphenol A. The Danish Food Authority is in dialogue with the industry to phase out the use of bisphenol A in the food contact materials where safe alternatives are available. It is positive that the industry is in the process of reducing its use where it can be done. At the same time, it is important that the industry has time to develop and risk assessing usable alternatives to bisphenol A. We should not risk the use of other chemical substances which have not been investigated or which prove to be more harmful to the population. Consumers themselves can do something to avoid bisphenol A. They can, for example: choose foods packaged in cardboard, plastic or glass, instead of canned. That information already gives the FDA to consumers on their website. As has already been said, it is important that we in the European Union take strong joint action in the field of chemistry, particularly in the case of endocrine disruptors. The proposal for a ban on four phthalates prepared by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in cooperation with ECHA, which was put forward on 1 April, is a step in the right direction. Therefore, I would like to invite the political parties to a debate in the field of chemistry, which will ensure a targeted and holistic approach to the handling of endocrine disruptors. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131730	There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister and it is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131736	Thank you very much. And thank you for inviting us to discuss an overall effort; it always makes a great deal of sense. Bisphenol A is, after all, a substance that we have discussed here in the Folketing several times. This is an area in which we have Danish special rules without any legal proceedings being brought. On the contrary, when we banned it in sucking bottles, the European Union followed in a similar way and introduced it in all the other EU countries. So we have taken the lead before, we have done it successfully, and today we have Danish special rules. Now the Minister mentioned limit values. A set of limit values from EFSA has been recommended, with which the Danish experts disagree. Will the Minister not help to follow the Danish experts and their recommendations when we talk about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131836	The difference in risk assessment between EFSA and DTU has led us to push, among other things. together with the Netherlands, for EFSA to look at it again. And I'm actually full of confidence that it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131854	Will the Minister then, if this is now dragging on, which there is a certain risk of, when dealing with the EU system, at least help Danish consumers and Danish pregnant women, who definitely have to avoid this drug, to be able to make a qualified choice, for example. By introducing a labelling system in order to avoid food contact materials, for example. In soda drinks, cans, if you want, so that you are not completely left alone as a consumer? It doesn't have to be marked, it doesn't have to be written anywhere today, so you have no chance of finding out where it is. Will the Minister be sympathetic to that, so that we at least make an effort towards the most vulnerable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408131941	So there was a premise in that question that nothing is happening. And since I do not take the concerns on advance in relation to what is going to happen in relation to the assessments that have to be made in the European system, I do not anticipate the course of action. We already provide guidelines on the Danish Food Authority's website. However, I can reject in advance the need for national labelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132005	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132008	Thank you. The Minister mentions that there is indeed advice to consumers that, for example, people are being asked to do so. may avoid cans and choose other types of packaging. I think it can be very difficult as a consumer and I would like to hear the Minister if he would acknowledge that it can be a very difficult everyday life if you had to go and remember all these things. You may have to buy a toothbrush and say: Well, no, I can't choose red toothbrushes. Or you have to buy canned food and say: Well, no, I can't, because I have to go for glass packaging. There will be a lot of crazy things if we leave it to the consumer to make these choices, and that is why I ask: does the Minister not agree that we should try to take the precautionary principle as far as possible to protect the consumer from all these hazardous chemicals that are potentially out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132103	Thank you for a relevant question. The government is so concerned that we have consumer safety in mind, but we also have a great deal of confidence in informed Danish consumers in general. That's why we have labelling schemes, which is why we provide information on the Danish Food Authority's website. However, I do not imagine that we will be producing a catalogue that the consumer can take with him in the supermarket, which will then show the requirements of everything before the consumer can act. In general, I have great confidence in Danish consumers and their ability to choose wisely and correctly as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132136	So I would like to ask: has a measure been made of how many consumers have been in seeing these things and an assessment of the extent to which such things are then being used out there? 'Cause I don't think this is something like 1%. If that's how we're gonna do it, the people will need it. If we want the consumer to be able to see this for himself, then it is 99 per cent. by consumers, who must have the information and know how they use it in practice. Is that realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132210	We haven't, no. And then, of course, the scale of the problem should not be greater than that. There are, of course, some areas where this may be a challenge, but it is not the case that 99 per cent. of the Danish population stands with a bone in the grave due to bisphenol A. But, as with so many other subjects, the alternative can make a study circle on this subject and do a thorough examination and then come to the minister and hand it over. The alternative has done so in several areas. And the Minister always accepts qualified material, including the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132237	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132242	This is just a question, because I think that this debate on chemicals, which none of us really want to consume, may also have to be put in a little proportion, and I really think that the Minister has done a little with the last answer. It is the case today that when we talk about bisphenol there are some limit values, and I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is not certain that the Minister knows about the very limit values that mean that if you have to consume a quantity that can be dangerous for you, you have to eat a great many tins of peeled tomatoes, I think. Does the Minister have any idea how many are to be taken? It is not to belittle the problem, because I really do not want it, but it is to put some proportions into this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132330	I thank you for the question and unfortunately must say that I do not know about the number of tins of peeled tomatoes that you have to eat to get the wrong amount, but to the extent that we in the board have information material that clears something about limit values, we would, of course, very much like to send them to the Folketing, because it is quite right that there should be proportionality in this. Therefore, there are also skilled researchers who assess where the limit values should be, and to the extent that you disagree with the various research-based forums, you take a different turn on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132406	The questioner? No, we'll thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132423	Thank you. With motion for a resolution B 38 the government is required to work towards the introduction into the EU of a total ban on the use of bisphenol A in food contact materials and to follow France's example and introduce special rules in Denmark to ensure this until the stricter rules are introduced in Denmark. The Government is also required to examine whether the ban should apply to other bisphenols. The Danes must be best protected against harmful chemicals, and it is certainly worrying that bisphenol A has been shown to be both endocrine disrupting and carcinogenic in small quantities. However, the Socialists do not entirely agree with the proposers that the means of doing so is a national ban. It is vital for us that we work for a safe and voluntary phasing out of bisphenol A in cooperation with the industry, while at the same time working in the EU for stricter common rules. That is why the Socialists support the fact that the B 38 government is required to work to ensure that a total ban on the use of bisphenol A is introduced in the EU. However, the Socialists believe that we should wait for the EU before introducing Danish special rules, and that is why we do not support the resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132535	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132541	Of course, I think that is a real shame. We have in the past been fully in line with the Socialists in this matter. We were united in introducing a ban on bisphenol A in sucking bottles and in extending it to all food contact materials for young children. Former Socialist food ministers have actually been pretty concerned about this issue, so I think it is really a pity that we do not think that we should give the European Union a certain chance, and if nothing happens then, if there is not the necessary protection for Danish citizens, we will have to take action and make special rules. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that in the past we have been very successful in taking the lead exactly in relation to this substance and, in this way, have special rules in Denmark and have helped to push EU legislation in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132638	I believe that the experience we have gained from our ministerial hours in this area makes it this position that we are taking right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132648	So you choose not to consider that it has worked in the past, that we have introduced special rules and that the EU has followed them, and that today we have better protection for Danish children compared to a hormone disrupting and carcinogenic substance than other EU countries. That does not go into this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132710	Of course this is also considered in this case. I merely express that there are typically several different ways to go, and our experience in the past means that once again we choose the European Union track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132724	Thank you, sir. Malte Larsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408132736	Thank you. The proposal to ban bisphenol A in food contact materials sounds very good. The proposal has been up several times, among other things. in 2009, and there was an amendment by the Danish People's Party that made it possible today to ban bisphenol A in food contact materials for children under 3 years of age in Denmark. And it has also done so that there is a ban in the EU on sucking and sucking bottles. I think we are all interested in protecting consumers, but we should also bear in mind that there is no scientific consensus here and, unfortunately, it is not so easy just with a total ban. In many cases there are no alternatives. The risk is therefore that bisphenol A is replaced by something that is more dangerous because it has not been properly investigated. Yes, it is true that bisphenol A is on the Danish EPA's list of undesirable substances, which is why the Danish Food Authority has already, for reasons of caution, prepared advice for pregnant and lactating women to avoid bisphenol A-containing products, because these women may be more sensitive to possible low dose effects. Unfortunately, the DTU Food Institute and EFSA do not agree on what the limit value should be. DTU has proposed a limit value of 0,7 where EFSA has recommended a limit value of 4 compared to the previous 50. It says something about how difficult this is. Kitchen salt is also dangerous to consume in large quantities. The Commission has proposed to introduce a lower limit value for plastics than the current one, and it must then also apply to varnishes, so on the front it is going the right way. According to a report from the University of Copenhagen, a total ban right now will also have major economic consequences. Therefore, it is positive that the industry is fully engaged in reducing the use of bisphenol A and testing and risk assessing alternatives. However, I would just like to say before the rapporteur for the proposers says that it is because the industry is more important to say that, of course, the consumer is always the most important person. However, in the Danish People's Party, we would like to propose that we work together to have a report made in committee in which we instruct the government to work forward towards phasing out these products. We would very much like to go into this constructively. And then I think that the Minister is a little ahead of it, because I had actually noted that I think that the government should follow up on what the Dutch authorities are proposing, namely that EFSA should assess this substance again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133046	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133051	There's no disagreement that this drug is dangerous. And what is interesting is also in addition to what someone from the Danish People's Party asked about in the Chamber today is that when you look at the studies that have been made, the greatest effect has actually been found on the learning ability of male rats at the lowest dose. So this is a substance that appears to be extremely dangerous in extremely low concentrations. And that is why it is so crucial that we protect pregnant women, including pregnant women, who do not just get the idea of surfing into the Danish Food Authority's website and looking for what recommendations about cans the Danish authorities now hold. I would like to ask the rapporteur: if it is now that we extend the ban to bisphenol S and some of the others that I understand the rapporteur is concerned about, will the Danish People's Party be in favour of introducing a Danish national ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133150	I think we should take this back in committee, because we do not quite know yet how the others will react. We have no scientific evidence of how dangerous they are or how mild they are. So I think we should talk about it in committee and then we will see what we can achieve. Because we're really worried about this, of course we are. We also have children and we ourselves are consumers. We all are. So we have to phase this out when it's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133230	But then I would just urge the Danish People's Party to act on that concern and to act and to do something that protects Danish consumers, such as. to ban the bis-subsidiary A and we can also take the other bis-subsidiaries with us so that there won't be this unfortunate substitution. I think it is just clear that there are certain foods that cannot be stored in a metal can, and that can be a consequence. The industry has complained that this could cost them money for many years now, and the question is how long to say that if they do not come up with a solution, we have to look at it passively and let the Danish consumers pay the price. Because this is basically about whose side you're on. Are we going to continue to give the industry a long leash, or are we going to say: to this end, and no longer, because we must protect the health of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133323	I did not really hear a question, but there should be no doubt that in the Danish People's Party we are most concerned with consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133331	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133336	Thank you. After all, bisphenol A is not a drug that just popped up. It is a substance that we have been working on for many, many years and which we have known as a problematic substance at many levels. But what I really want to hear from the rapporteur is: instead of giving instructions to pregnant women and nursing about what they should try to avoid in an already very complex everyday life, we do not owe it to consumers to follow the precautionary principle as far as we can at all and to ensure that when something is dangerous in some context such as this one. We are taking the lead in Denmark to protect Danish consumers and, at the same time, to use it to put pressure on the creation of pan-European rules as quickly as possible, so that this applies to the whole of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133430	There is no doubt that it is important that we take the lead in Denmark and press for it, because we have seen before that it has succeeded. We should also just be aware that, as far as some of these things are concerned, there is no scientific consensus, but I fully agree that it is dangerous and that is why we must have it phased out. We just have to do it properly, and I think we should simply finish this by making a report in committee on which we can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133502	I do not think there is any doubt that this is dangerous, but I just want to hear again: is it not right that we are simply driving it as far as we can, in other words getting pushed so that this drug comes out of our lives as quickly as possible, so that consumers should not go and look at all sorts of small brands and recommendations and go into websites before they go shopping? It is not realistic for consumers to have time for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133529	Well, let us see what decision we can reach in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133533	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133549	Thank you. I refer to my first speech on B 37, since the Left similarly recognises the seriousness of the issues and believes that we need to find a solution to the problems through the EU track, which we have also highlighted in the past. In the light of what I have already explained and what I have said, we can also say here that we cannot support the proposal before us, but we are looking for a good discussion in committee and with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133614	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Erling Bonnesen from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133619	Sorry, the rapporteur will not let go that easily. Now the rapporteur chose to repeat himself, and I would also like to repeat one question, and that is: can the rapporteur not confirm that there is no contradiction between following a national track, as we have done in Denmark in the past, and following an EU track? I am well aware that the Minister is busy, but I am absolutely convinced that we can find time to write some rules for Denmark, while pressing for the laudable efforts to make the European Union more ambitious in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133655	As the author himself points out, we are now in the parade of repetition, and I can also refer to my previous answer, namely that something is actually happening in this area too. As the Minister has already explained, the Danish authorities, together with the EU authorities, have just submitted a proposal in this area which is now included in the process. So we can all enjoy the fact that things have slipped away, but of course things take the time that things take, and then you can always make an assessment of whether you get any further by saying things higher or by following this lead. There, in the Left, we have that position and I can also hear a large number of other parties in this Chamber that following the EU path is probably the way to achieve results.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133738	I am well aware that we are dealing with many proposals today, but what the rapporteur is talking about is certainly phthalates, and what we are dealing with now is bisphenol A. In relation to bisphenol A, the situation is quite current that the EU recommends one limit value and that the Danish authorities recommend a different limit value. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a very good reason to follow the recommendations of the Danish experts?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133801	I fully agree that these are different proposals, but if there is disagreement about what the questioner also says here, then there is good reason for us to talk about it, so that the authorities, both nationally and at EU level, have just spoken about it, so that we can find a clue. I do not think that Danish alone will benefit either. Should this resolve matters at EU level? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133826	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133831	After all, Bisphenol A has been known for many years and we have known that there have been environmental and health problems with bisphenol A. Does the rapporteur not think that the industry has actually had enough years to find substitutes for this substance for the various uses that are problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133852	As the questioner points out, it is something that has been known for a long time, and therefore it is so good that work is being done on it. We can point out that the Minister has just invited us to a meeting and a technical review of it, so it is a good start to try to tackle the tasks that have also been highlighted by several people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133913	It is extremely important that we continue to work. I'm guessing we've already been treating this drug for maybe 20 years. I just tried to see if I could find a date for the first time looking at it, but I just couldn't find it. My guess is that we may have been dealing with this drug for 15-20 years, which means that industry has had the time to say: OK, this is problematic, we have to find something else. Can we expect it to take another 15 to 20 years? What's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408133947	I would just point out that something is happening in this case too. It is only a few days ago that the Minister invited me to a meeting of the Ministry on this subject, where several rapporteurs from the parties were represented in different ways to address this and get to grips with the issues. It is quite true that it has been discussed several times and something is happening in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134007	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134012	We have heard from many quarters, including from the Minister, that we in Denmark can be proud of the pressure we put on the ban on bisphenol A in sucking bottles, in other words the protection of children. Does the rapporteur agree that Denmark can be proud of the result that we ended up with, in other words, broad support in the EU system for a ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134034	Surely we can be satisfied with that. I hear everyone is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134040	But it was quite the same situation back then, so nothing happened in the EU system; Denmark took the lead; we were a number of parties pushing for it. And then we were also told: Be careful not to go alone. Denmark pressed, and then it happened that it gave support afterwards in the rest of the EU system. Does the rapporteur not see a parallelism in this? It's even the same drug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134112	I also welcome the fact that the Minister has just invited us to a meeting in which we have started discussions. And I also hear from several different parties: let us have some good discussions and continue the work of the committee with the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134125	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bech of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134136	Thank you. Now it's not because I'm going to corrupt the President, but my real name is Carsten Bach. Then I would also like to refer to this motion for a resolution some of the more general remarks I made myself on the previous motion for a resolution, B 37. But I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution once again. I did so before, in this way, in order to contribute to consumer information, if only to my information. When I was reading through the comments on the motion for a resolution, I almost felt bad when I came down to the section where there is something about coating in cans. I immediately came to think back of my time as a soldier and all the canned food I have consumed as a soldier I was even, because I was in need of time, have to heat directly in the can. It has probably not been very healthy. When I look into the subject as well, I can see, as I have said several times before by other rapporteurs, that there is a difference between the risk assessment carried out by EFSA and DTU, despite the fact that it is based on the same research results. This is probably not the first time researchers disagree with a risk assessment, but it is certainly worrying right in this particular area because bisphenol A is indeed a dangerous substance. Therefore, I would also like to acknowledge that there is something here that we probably need to dive a little further into, and that is why it was pleasing to the undersigned, just as it was pleasing to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, when the Minister mentioned earlier that the Dutch Government has asked EFSA for a renewed risk assessment and that Denmark would support the Netherlands in that. I have it here on my speech paper that I would recommend it to the government, but the Minister came before me. Moreover, I would just like to conclude by acknowledging the progress already made in this area, with a marked reduction in limit values for plastics and varnishes. Overall, this leads me to conclude that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134417	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134423	Thank you to the rapporteur. What is also in this motion for a resolution is, in fact, that we follow the recommendations of the Danish experts. So I will then accept the outstretched hand that I sense when we try in committee to look at what this disagreement between EFSA and the Danish experts is really based on. And have we reached that point in Denmark that we have lost patience and would like to follow the recommendations of the Danish experts in relation to this extremely dangerous substance? After all, the rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. I have understood in the past that what the Liberal Alliance believes in is that it is the consumers who have the power, so that they can simply bypass the things they do not want and then it can be a way of getting rid of the dangerous substances. In California you are on the way with a labelling scheme in relation to bisphenol A. Then consumers can choose to avoid it, because I do not quite believe that we can be comfortable with a solution that means that pregnant women must sit and search the FDA's website to find out what it is they should try to avoid. But could a labelling system, until we have solved this dispute between the various authorities about this drug, be a way forward that the Liberal Alliance would be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134537	As the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten mentions, the Liberal Alliance is also looking forward to the debate in committee. I also think that the fact that the government is going to follow up the Dutch concerns is an expression of some kind of impatience in general. I would also like to say again in general terms that the Liberal Alliance is actually enthusiastic about the already existing labelling arrangements in this area. Whether a labelling system will make sense precisely in relation to bisphenol A, I will not give an assessment at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134618	Then I hope that the rapporteur will think about it. To take this journey of reflection, I can only say that as a consumer you do not have a chance, because you cannot see through whether there is bisphenol A in the can that you are holding down in the supermarket. You don't stand a chance. So if we are to get consumers to help us because we are up against an extremely sluggish system, we will have to give them better tools, and this could be a labelling system that is on the way in California, which can therefore be done and which can then allow consumers to avoid this dangerous chemical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134701	Thank you. I will accept the offer to go with Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding on a trip to California, where we may even be able to study labelling schemes in California. However, I would also like to appeal here to the government to enter into a dialogue with the food producers in Denmark to engage in a dialogue with the producers of the packaging of the food products of the Danish food producers, so that the industry may be able to move through that way slightly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134734	Well, then, sir. Christian Poll wanted a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134736	Thank you. I tried just before during the previous questioning round to find out when bisphenol A first came onto the market, and I actually found out that it was synthesized by a chemist in 1891, and that it has then been used up through the 1950s and 1960s, but that focus on the harmful effects naturally came in the early 1990s when the endocrine disrupting effects were discovered. So my question to the rapporteur is: is it not a number of years since the beginning of the 1990s, when the concern became vague, that the chemical industry has had to find something else, that is to say to have a substitution of bisphenol A with other chemicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134828	Thank you very much for the very much information that is coming out in this Chamber today. It was almost a whole history lecture we got there. No, it is not going quickly and, as I said earlier, I believe that the measures that the government intends to take, which the government has already taken and which the Liberal Alliance supports, are an expression of some kind of impatience.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134901	Yeah, but the question is whether the device is strong enough. That is why I think it is a fine proposal that we have on the table today. So, when we can take the lead in Denmark with a definite ban, it will work, and then it is more likely that the rest of the European Union will actually do something similar shortly after that. That way we can get a momentum. Does the rapporteur not agree that this could have that effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134929	Thank you again for the question. After all, we can always discuss instruments and the strength of instruments, and I do not think, in this context, that there is necessarily a precedent with the previous cases, as there have been, where Denmark has pressed for stricter legislation. I am not sure that this is quite comparable in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408134955	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. The next one is sir. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135016	In the alternative, we are generally concerned about this great chemical experiment, which we in the Western world have been running for many years. That is why I would like to refer to my earlier rapporteur's speech about this chemical package that Enhedslisten has presented today, and just say that we also support this resolution and the approach that we in Denmark can just take the lead, show the way and thus press the European Union to take some real decisions on hazardous chemicals so that they will apply to the whole of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135056	There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Christian Poll. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135110	The Radical Left takes the chemistry agenda very seriously. It's not a joke when fertility falls in our country, and it's not a joke when children go into puberty too soon. And we see many other things that are due to the endocrine disruptors and other unnecessary chemistry that are in the products that are around us. Having said that, it should also be remembered that the chemistry agenda is quite complex. It is not everything that is chemistry that is harmful; in fact, there is a great deal that we need incredibly. And it is also an area where you can easily panic a little, because a substance sounds very dangerous, and then it may really be more about how the substance is used. Furthermore, in the field of chemistry, we should constantly look at what alternatives there are to the substances we would like to have banned. Because if the alternatives are less elucidated and worse, one does not get very far in banning a given substance. And then you have to think and think very politically: how do you really move this agenda? We can't afford and have time for symbol politics. It is moving the chemistry agenda where we can actually do what matters in earnest. We are in Denmark 5 million people. We can stand up and threaten enough and tell very large companies that now they have to stop using a drug, but it is now more weighty when 500 million consumers together say that these drugs do not want to enter their markets. It's a jungle that's so extensive to find around in that Danish experts can't only get enough knowledge about these drugs. We will also have to work with the other countries there. For the Radical Left, it has always been a matter of priority to do something about chemistry, and when we were in government and I sat with the ministerial post, chemistry was one of the main priorities. And let me just say what we actually did during that period. We held the Presidency of the European Union, and here was the seventh environmental action programme, which dealt with chemistry and cocktail effects and endocrine disruptors, a main task for the Danish Presidency, where we moved it quite far. During our reign, we also made criteria for endocrine disruptors, which were such a little excuse that the European Union could cover itself under the 'do not have enough criteria'. We called on neighbouring countries to take responsibility for mapping out a large number of the substances that could be covered up under the fact that they did not have enough knowledge. We set aside money to send experts to the EU and press, because it is with knowledge that you can very often put some of these things in the system. We made a Chemical Forum. We focused on chemicals in terms of resource efficiency, i.e. how to recycle things. So there is no doubt that this is an agenda that really concerns us, but where it is also important to look at how to do these things in the best possible way. When we come to what we are discussing here with B 38, bisphenol A, I would say that it is a substance we have been under surveillance for a long time, and we have a ban in Denmark on it in the materials that are in contact with children under 3 years of age. That is very sensible, because there are safe alternatives here. The problem with making a ban in general is that we have not yet developed alternatives that are safe in all areas. Bisphenol S is equally uncertain, it has been proven by Canadian researchers; bisphenol B, E and F and 4-formylphenol have a similar potential to be endocrine disrupting. And that means that the places where you use the bishop A today are, for example, the places where you use the bishop A. in acidic and salty foods such as Pickled cucumbers, peeled tomatoes, cider, canned cola, the cans will rust if you don't use bisphenol A, and then you can start using some of these more unsafe substances. I also remember that when we did this in relation to sucking bottles, there was in fact a large article in the Engineer which expressed a very great concern that the alternative substances used here were not safe enough. That is why we believe that the most important thing at this stage is to put pressure on the European Union. And there is also a vote here in 2016, which we radically want to wait and see how goes. However, I would also agree with Enhedslisten that we need an active government that goes in and puts proper pressure and plays an important role, as Denmark has always done in the field of chemistry, and which takes the lead and stands with the other progressive countries. And that is why I can blow them up a bit by saying that if the government can't figure out how to do something about it and put pressure on this, then the Radical Left would like, when we get on the other side of it, and if we had lost such a vote, to help push the Danish Government. Hopefully, it can also get the industry in Denmark to put pressure on the government to take this responsibility seriously, so that the risk may be there that you will look at it if you miss this opportunity. So, so far, I would like to say that there are very positive intentions in the proposal. The EU way is for us to go, but if we have a government that does not want to live up to that responsibility, then we have to look at what we have to do if there is no victory in this vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135603	We will have a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135606	Thank you. I would just like to hear the rapporteur, perhaps particularly because of the rapporteur's previous role as minister: how did the rapporteur experience the balance of power in the European Union in the large lobbying apparatus running down there, in other words, the forces that the chemical industry can put into the work, in relation to the forces that consumer and environmental organisations have to lobby?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135638	Now the alternative has a somewhat mixed relationship with the European Union. I would say that I actually believe that the European Union is the most important place to do these things, even if there is not always an equal amount of money on both sides in raising a case. Where I think a real difference can be made is by ensuring that research and knowledge are fully on the Commission's table, because then it is very difficult for lobbyists who are against the legislation to do something. It must also be borne in mind that EU legislation REACH - so imperfect and imperfect - is the world's best chemicals legislation. So, to me, there is no doubt that it is the European Union that is the way to go, even if there may not be a total balance in what one side and the other side can lobby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135719	[Sound emission]... disagreement that these drugs aren't coming in and getting the necessary weight? For example, is it... Is it not the case that the industry has so many resources that it can, like it, keep the knowledge from the door or contradict it with other types of arguments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135741	After all, there are many reasons why we are not in line with the chemistry agenda, among other things. Because there are thousands of drugs we need to worry about, thousands. And because no safe alternatives have been developed for all the substances we would like to remove, there is a risk that worse substances will simply be used, because I do not think it is realistic to imagine that we do not have canned products in Europe at all from one day to the next. So it's all about being realistic in terms of pushing this agenda as soon as possible, and I think that in the years that we had and where I had the opportunity to lead the Ministry of the Environment, we showed that Denmark could move a lot, and we can move very far, and I hope that the current government will try to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135826	We have one more brief comment to make. But before that, I would like to call on you to look at your microphone. It is not for the sake of the President, but for the sake of our listeners and viewers, otherwise they will not be able to hear what is being asked. But the next brief remark is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408135846	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's desire to do something for as many people as possible. But I just think it is important to make it clear that we are elected by the Danish people. And you can get into the situation that, although the interventions we are making in Denmark do not also affect people in Poland and Spain, it is still very wise to do so. In relation to bisphenol A and the other bisphenols, we are therefore very open to making the ban more broad, so we also hit some of the others and thus do not get the unfortunate substitution, which was also mentioned by the Danish People's Party. What we have seen with the sucking bottles is that you now have completely different materials. Those who are being sold now are made of quite different materials than anything based on bisphenol. In relation to canned foods, it may well be that there are just some foods that you cannot store in a metal can. I remember that when the rapporteur himself was Minister for the Environment, we held meetings with the other minister, the Minister for Food, who was very concerned about this, but who also got calculations from industry of how expensive this would be. The problem with that is that if we continue to recognise that we should not act if it is expensive for industry, then they can get away with doing nothing. So I would very much like to welcome the outstretched hand in waiting for what is happening in the EU in 2016 out, but then we will have to blow someone up the neck. Because industry needs to know that they cannot just get away with sitting with their hands in their laps and not developing alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140020	I'm always happy when Enhedslisten accepts an outstretched hand. With Enhedslisten, you can never be sure whether you are bitten by hand or taken, so I am really glad that Enhedslisten says so. Compared with the first paragraph put forward by the Enhedslisten, it is not the case that we Radicals are more concerned with the peoples of Europe than with the Danish people. We are just more concerned with giving the Danish population the most strength and power and most security. And in the field of chemistry, it is actually done through the European Union. Because there are many of us who can stand together against industry. There are many of us who can stand together and say that now you must develop alternatives. And that is because we Radicals have an easier approach to saying that it is certainly a good thing that we have the European Union. The Enhedslisten is not always so happy to say that, but here is an area where it is clear that it benefits every single Dane that we have the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140106	In fact, I disagree, because one of the reasons why we have so many battles is that the European Union forbids us to take the lead. It is simply because we are beginning to shake our hand. If we take a political responsibility to protect Danish consumers, if we choose to take the lead, we risk, God help me, if we are not allowed to say so, apologise for having an EU case on our necks, because consideration for the internal market is always at the top of the list, and that is absolutely insane. But I agree that the more countries that can unite the EU or not, the more strength this will gain. That is also why we never cut ourselves off from other tracks. Whether it is under the auspices of the United Nations or under the auspices of the European Union or how we can cooperate with other countries, we must do so. But that must never be an excuse for not taking the fight for our own people too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140200	There we look at it so differently. The Enhedslisten would think it was a great victory, because we in Denmark demanded labels, on which you could see what was in a product, and they saw at Coca-Cola that they didn't care so they couldn't buy a Coca-Cola in Denmark. The Enhedslisten wouldn't care that you couldn't buy a L'Oréal product because they could just pull on the shoulder if Denmark made some rules. The Enhedslisten would be pleased that you could not buy anything in cans in Denmark, because it was more important for Enhedslisten that we had a national ban than that we had changed the products, changed the production, developed alternatives. That is what is important for Radicals: that safe alternatives are developed and that products are changed so that you do not just sweep down the border and buy them or order them over the net. So it is only by being enough people who threaten not to buy a product. And 500 million people are now something stronger than 5 million. So I think it is fine that Enhedslisten will prohibit Denmark from being able to buy lots of products. I just don't believe that it gives less chemistry; I think people buy those products somewhere else. That's how we look at how to change the world so differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140301	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140318	This proposal from Enhedslisten and SF will jointly require the government to work towards the introduction into the EU of a total ban on the use of bisphenol A in food contact materials and on the sale of food contact materials containing bisphenol A, and to follow France's example and introduce special rules in Denmark to ensure this until the stricter rules have been introduced into the EU. That is why, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd said, there are two tracks: there is the national track that has also been followed in France, and there is the EU track. And when it is important that more countries are involved, it is also because it gives the Commission much less power to bring proceedings when we suddenly have a lot of countries with us. I just found a guide on the FDA's website, which I would like to pick a little in, and where it says how to do it. Here they say that it is very, very dangerous, if you are pregnant, to be exposed to bisphenol A. And that is, if you go in and read on the website, as I hear from several pages that you can just do yourself to take your precautions. Among other things, it says:: Bisphenol A is not subject to labelling on the packaging. Some manufacturers label the products "Bis" A-free" or the like. Some plastic products are labelled at the bottom with a recycled triangle. If the triangle has the number seven in the middle, the plastic may contain bisphenol A. So what you need to do is to buy unpacked, fresh food or products packaged on cardboard, plastic or glass, buy frozen food instead of canned canned, avoid food packaging in plastic, which is made of polycarbonate, bissubstance A can be released from the plastic, especially when it is being heated away old worn or cracked plastic packaging, use the packaging for what it is intended to do, do not heat up. Some boxes contain bisphenol A. Therefore, wash your hands as soon as you have handled receipts. Always keep food in glass, because then the food does not come into contact with the bisphenol A in the lid. Well, honestly, I think it's really good that you're so thorough. At some point I may get pregnant, and will we really demand that all pregnant women, when they are down in SuperBrugsen, should not be born with strong malformations caused by endocrine disruptors or other substances, remember to say to themselves: Oh, I should remember not to turn the glass, so my food comes into contact with the lid, and I should remember not to buy the other I just don't think it's fair, compared to the fact that there is no doubt about how harmful bisphenol A is. As Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd has also said, it is useful to take the lead. I think there is a complete parallelism with the bisphenol A discussion on children under 3 years of age. This is a huge problem for pregnant women, and I would like to provide a service information to especially the men in this room and those who might need to see it. The University of Missouri has conducted an extensive study of mice, where what they were exposed to by bisphenol A was similar to what is expected to happen to all of us, i.e. the same amount in relative terms. The male mice exposed to bisphenol A were later separated by the female mice when the female mice had to choose a partner. Bisphenol A thus killed the masculinity and some of the characteristics that made the male mice attractive as partners. It's just a little service information for the men. I can also say to the women that the female mice became very little concerned about caring for their own offspring if they were exposed to bisphenol A. There is no discussion about whether bisphenol A is dangerous. Let's put it down once and for all. Especially when it comes to pregnant women and the list I read out before, do you really think it's fair that people should remember all that? Do not turn the glass over, so it comes into contact with the lid; you should choose the one I think there is a consumer concern to take here, and that we like France should take the lead, so we also put pressure on the industry so that you find some alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140756	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140803	Thank you. I think we all want to get rid of the dangerous substances, as I have already mentioned, and now the SF is co-sponsored on this particular proposal, but not on the four others that have been tabled, and I am slightly over it. Is this because the SF considers the four other proposals to be less important, or what is the reason why it is precisely about bisphenol A, the Socialist People's Party being co-sponsors?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140830	It is simply because we had a good talk with our colleagues in the Enhedslisten and decided to put it here together. But we also support the others. We have a number of comments and, as I mentioned in the first motion for a resolution, there are some things we would like to have discussed in relation to the text of the resolution itself, but we also support the other proposals. This was just something SF has been working on for many, many years, and we wanted to make a joint resolution with Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140901	I just had to understand it, so it wasn't to tease or anything that I asked the question at all. After all, I think that Mrs Ida Auken made a lot of sense in telling us that if we really want to do something, it makes sense to do it at EU level. That is probably the attitude I myself have because it is a much larger market. And although the Danish People's Party is usually not particularly happy with the European Union, because I am certainly not, I just think it makes sense. Does the rapporteur not also believe that if we push through the European Union, it will of course also make sense in relation to imports from third countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408140942	I fully agree that the EU track is important, but we can also see that not much is happening, and I believe that the industrial lobbyism that exists in the European Union is so extensive. And that's not just something I mean. The SF Member of the European Parliament, Margrete Auken, has indeed spoken out against lobbying and says, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding also said, that huge numbers of millions, hundreds of millions, are being posted into simply protecting themselves from change. What we are asking industry to do is to find alternatives. We've been asking them that for many years, but when they don't, we say, okay, we're gonna have to screw up. Because alternatives were found in the case of sucking bottles and the other things for children under 3 years of age when we made a ban on bisphenol A. We think that more pressure should be put on now, and that is why we would like to pursue the EU track, but we would also like to do as France did and say that the more countries that can come along and put pressure on the EU, the better, at the same time as we introduce security measures at home to protect our own people. The best course of action is, of course, if, overall, the two tracks can mean a ban throughout the European Union. But I think that we have a duty first and foremost to protect our own people, and this is such a dangerous substance that we simply have to go in and ban it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408141109	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, but I do not see him here, so I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Gjerding from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408141138	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are now debating is a partial re-submission of previous motions for resolutions which we have tabled in recent years. It is about bisphenol A, which is a chemical that is both carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting in extremely low concentrations. Bisphenol A is linked to breast cancer, uterine damage, impaired sperm quality, and bisphenol A is believed to affect brain development as well as behavioural and learning ability. Bisphenol A is available today in products that come into contact with food. It exists, among other things. in cans in spring water coolers and in cans of soda. So we have a very dangerous substance that is found in materials that come into contact with things we eat and drink. It's no secret, and that's also why this is a partial re-submission of something we've been doing in the past, that we've been fighting against bisphenol A for so many years. Especially we've been fighting to protect children from this dangerous chemical. It was a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten which, back in 2010, collected a majority to ban bisphenol A in sucking bottles. There was support from all parties in the red block as well as the Danish People's Party, and Denmark therefore went in and introduced special rules, i.e. forbade bisphenol A in sucking bottles. There was much concern from the then VK government about how the EU would react. The EU chose to follow Denmark. The EU chose to follow Denmark's example and introduce a ban on bisphenol A in sucking bottles, contrary to what the EU's own food agency, EFSA, recommended. So the EU chose to go against EFSA and instead follow Denmark. The following year we proposed extending this ban in sucking bottles to all food contact materials for young children. It was also adopted in the Danish Parliament, and that is why we now have special rules, special rules, which the EU has done nothing about so Danish children have a higher level of protection than other children in the European Union. One might wish that the European Union chose to follow Denmark here too, but unfortunately we are not yet here. It's just not enough just to keep little children safe. Partly because this endocrine disrupting and carcinogenic substance also affects adults, partly because studies have shown that it is especially in the fetal state that one is very vulnerable to the influence of this substance, and since pregnant women hardly consume their food from baby moss packaging or sucking bottles, we have to go further to ensure the necessary protection. In this context, it is extremely worrying that studies have shown that 9 out of 10 women had bisphenol A in the urine. That is, they've taken this drug. It is not something that is naturally occurring, it is only found in products in which it has been added, and they have thus probably got it through food contact materials. We therefore need to intervene. It has been a major part of the debate whether to go the EU road or the Danish road, and I think I have now tried to explain that one does not exclude the other, on the contrary. We have shown that we can actually push the European Union by taking the lead in Denmark and that we can actually ensure that the European Union acts and imposes a ban, so it will benefit all EU citizens if we take the lead in Denmark. There's no doubt that this drug is dangerous either. Several previous rapporteurs have mentioned this. Denmark's own food institute, the DTU Food Institute, also agrees with this and they recommend a much lower limit value in food contact materials than EFSA does. Then there are others in the world who are acting on this, and that was also something that we can look at in the subsequent committee reading. For example: We can look to California, where a labelling system is now being introduced. That is to say, it will be easier for consumers to be informed, because it is virtually impossible today. Then there's been this talk about alternatives. Are we really throwing the industry into a terrible situation where they can no longer sell products in any kind of packaging? What we can see is that when the Consumer Council goes out and tests, they find alternatives. That is, they exist. So it is very much a question of will on the part of industry. But it is clear that if they experience that they are always met, if only they can add a sufficiently large figure to a minister, then support all the parties of the Folketing and say: Uha, we dare not touch this. Why on earth would they start to substitute? We are very prepared to make a deadline and say that the European Union will get here and no longer, then we will start making national bans, because then we will no longer accept that industry will continue not to trade on a substance we have known for so many years to be extremely dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408141736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408141757	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408141817	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten wishes to protect consumers in the best possible way against endocrine disruptors and will therefore prohibit antioxidants BHA and BHT in chewing gum. BHA and BHT are additives authorised in the EU for a number of foods, including food additives. Chewing gum. Both substances have therefore been assessed at risk and their use is authorised. We eat all foods that have been added to additives to either prolong shelf life, inhibit bacterial growth or change colour and taste, and this also applies to our children. We must be able to rely on our food to be safe and I am convinced that we are protecting consumers best by regulating food additives in the European Union. The European Food Safety Authority, in its assessment of both BHA and BHT, has indicated that the substances have endocrine disrupting potential and that their assessment took these effects into account in the established acceptable daily dose, the one abbreviated ADI. Since EFSA has considered that it is safe to use BHA and BHT in the permitted quantities and the DTU Food Institute has confirmed this assessment, there is no reason to withdraw the authorisation to use BHA and BHT in chewing gum. The scope of the legislation on additives is fully harmonised and it is therefore not possible at national level to prohibit already authorised additives. I would therefore insist that additives should continue to be regulated in the European Union. That is the most sensible thing for both consumers and companies, and that is why I reject the proposal on behalf of the government. I will work, as I mentioned earlier today, for broad cooperation in the field of chemistry, where there must be a special focus on endocrine disruptors. In this way, we in Denmark can get ahead of the gathering of new knowledge that can help to qualify the decisions in the EU, just as the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has put forward a proposal for new restrictions on the content of the four phthalates in consumer products in cooperation with ECHA, which I expect will result in regulation at EU level. On the basis of these five motions for resolutions that we have before us today, as I said, I would like to enter into a dialogue with the Committee on a joint political effort which will ensure a strengthened, targeted and comprehensive approach to substances of concern across the environment and food, towards the negotiation of a new joint chemical effort from 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142032	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142038	I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree with me that we have a particular responsibility to protect children from dangerous endocrine disruptors and carcinogenic substances, knowing now that the basis on which substances are assessed today is imperfect, it is incomplete because it is not taken into account that it is not enough to look at the individual substance and whether it is dangerous. One has to look at how the drugs play together, the so-called cocktail effect. You don't know how to do that at this time. When we measure, also on children, we can see that they have a lot of dangerous substances in their bodies. This means that they are exposed to far too great an impact from dangerous chemical substances. Then it is obvious to try to intervene where it is easiest and where it seems most illogical to be allowed to add endocrine disruptors, for example. in chewing gum targeted children. Can't we agree that far?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142144	Thank you for the question. The risk assessment carried out by the EFSA shall take into account the intake by children of the substances from all foods where the substances are allowed to be used. This also applies to the use of the substance in chewing gum, where the Commission has set a limit value for its content. I believe that we are all concerned with the situation addressed by the rapporteur, but I also think it is extremely important to emphasise, and this has happened again in several of the questions put by the rapporteur today, that it is a hugely dangerous substance. This has been said with great empathy and empathy, and it is also true, but we also need to have a proportionality in this and if Enhedslisten's rapporteur wants to generate an agenda based on excessive language use, for example. The way in which they are dealt with here in relation to the public agenda, etc., will have the negative effect on a realistic agenda on these drugs and their impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142238	Now I know that the Minister for the Environment is new, but I can recommend that you have a meeting with the leading researchers in this area, who repeatedly warn that we do not have enough control over these chemicals at all and that what we expose both children and adults to is too high concentrations. I do not think it suits anyone at all to neglect the fact that these are dangerous substances we are dealing with and that the current regulation is totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142306	It's amazing to have to stand and hear from a member of Parliament from Enhedslisten that we don't have experts in Denmark who evaluate these drugs and advise the government sufficiently. So the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten can stand here on his own and sweep aside all the experts in the government advisory forums throughout the body that is in the European Union who are precisely approving these things. I think it is very important for the rapporteur to stop teaching the many experts consulted both by the government and by the European system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142339	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142342	What this is about here is the precautionary principle. Because we have studies that show that in animals there are effects. These are effects such as reduced sperm quality, genital malformation and premature puberty. These are effects that we do not know right now about people, but there are clear indications here. And then what I think it might be reasonable when we deal with something that the young people we have sitting up here may chew on every day and it is not actually necessary because chewing gum can be produced without taking that step and saying: No more it in Denmark. In this way, we can take the lead and later have it banned at EU level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142428	Well, I can say to the rapporteur for the Alternative, as I have also said earlier today, that we do not intend to depart from the path that we, as government and governments before us, have followed, namely that we want to have common EU standards. We have great faith in the limit values set by experts. We listen to experts, including experts from everyday life, and therefore we receive input from both industry and lobby organisations and the researchers who are set to advise the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142501	After all, the precautionary principle comes in when you are in doubt, which is precisely where we can see effects in animal testing. Then there may also be effects on people, and then you might as well cut through and say: okay, there may be a risk here, and since there is no particular reason to keep using these drugs, let's get them out. Then we increase security for safety reasons because the safety of our young people and others chewing gum is still the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142533	I do not know whether the rapporteur is in doubt. I have no doubt. I have no doubt that the limit values that have been set and on which we have been advised will be respected. That is the lead we are following, and that is why we intend to do nothing more in this matter than reject the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142551	I thank the Minister. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142600	Thank you. With this resolution, the government is required to put forward a bill banning the hormone disruptors BHA and BHT in chewing gum while at the same time working for a ban across the EU. It is our view that endocrine disruptors must be combated, and the Socialists therefore once again support the intentions of the proposal. It is worrying that Danish consumers are exposed to endocrine disruptors in very common products such as chewing gum, and one might wonder whether these substances are even needed in chewing gum. It is particularly worrying that the substances are typically found in chewing gum for children. Once again, however, it is our view that we should not start with a national ban, but rather pursue the international track first. Danish consumers are therefore best protected against endocrine disruptors by a common EU regulation, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142706	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142709	Does the rapporteur not agree with me that the risk assessments currently being carried out, for example. Of these drugs, only relate to these drugs? Now the Minister for the Environment and Food also mentioned that, yes, all sources are taken into account, but the problem is that exposure from all kinds of other substances is not taken into account too. In other words, the basis on which we are regulating today is incomplete, that is, we cannot wait for us to have new criteria. When we see completely unnecessary additives in products targeted at children, it is quite reasonable, given that we have a special responsibility to protect children from dangerous chemistry, that we then intervene here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142756	Well, that is precisely why we think that the international track is the right one to follow and what will work best. And on such a matter as this, I would like to ask the rapporteur a little polemical, if one imagines that, for example, we are going to have to deal with it. with purchased chewing gum from elsewhere in the country must have a border control that regulates this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142820	Well, now we have to put in place rules. We have done that before, and it works, and it can be done. I'm not saying it's easy. The fight against dangerous chemistry, when we have an EU system that is as foot-timing as it is, is not easy. It's not ideal for us to have to do these things. But we just have to if we listen to the scientists. Now, for the sake of the Minister for the Environment and Food, I would just like to read a quote from the researchers. They say: Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that chemicals that are or are just suspected of being endocrine disruptors are phased out from our everyday lives or regulated much more restrictively than is the case at present. This is the statement from some of Denmark's leading researchers. Do we not have a political responsibility to respond to such a serious message?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142915	What was addressed here to the Minister, I cannot answer. However, I would like to say once again that I think it is absolutely marvellous that we are regulating this here in the EU context and we are quite convinced that this is what will work best when it comes to removing unnecessary addition of chemicals to the products.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142938	Thank you, sir. Malte Larsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408142949	The Enhedslisten proposes banning BHA and BHT in chewing gum. BHA and BHT are additives which extend the shelf life. There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party also does not want endocrine disruptors in our food. With regard to BHA and BHT, the Danish Health Authority today estimates the content of the suspected substances to be so low that it has no harmful effect. In the food compromise, the important priority research efforts in the field of chemistry continue. Efforts in the field of chemistry should promote the health of Danes and address the risk of being exposed to unwanted chemistry. The challenge with BHA and BHT is that these two substances have been assessed at risk by EFSA and have been authorised as safe to use in food. Additives are legally fully harmonised in the European Union, yes, the European Union decides a lot, so it will be very difficult to make national rules. Instead, as I mentioned a little earlier, we must seek new knowledge and continue researching. As with the other two proposals, the Danish People's Party would like to urge that we work together in committee on a motion for a resolution to phase out endocrine disruptors, because that is not good for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143133	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143136	No. I totally agree with that. It's not good for us with the many chemicals that exist in products we surround ourselves with, which are very strongly suspected of being endocrine disruptors. In relation to children, it is of course a particular concern that the many different sources, i.e. the many different substances to which they are exposed and which are found in children's bodies, even in very young children, are not assessed in too high concentrations. In other words, for some substances it actually exceeds what EFSA considers to be the acceptable daily level. If we then know that the legislation does not even take into account the way the drugs work together, then we know that we have a problem. And that is why it is most obvious to look at: Where can we intervene? Can we intervene anywhere and protect in any applications? When we have just chosen to crack down on these endocrine disruptors in chewing gum, it is because it seems like a place where you can intervene and say: Hormone disruptors must certainly not be added to chewing gum for children. And there are products for the market. It's not like kids can't chew gum anymore. There are products that don't contain these substances. We agree, of course, that if the EU made legislation, that would be the best thing, but if that does not happen, is the rapporteur not prepared to make an extra effort to protect children in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143258	Well, I agree with that concern, and I wouldn't deny that we're gonna find out something else. But I think we should have this back in committee and then see what kind of report we can come up with together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143311	There is another brief comment on Mrs Lise Bech, and it is from Mr Lise Bech. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143321	Sorry, it was just at the last minute that I pressed in, but I just remembered: Don't make a strong impression on the rapporteur that our consumer organisation Consumer Council Think Chemistry has tested these chewing gum and finds these drugs in 75%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143352	Yes, it does. But we should also just remember to stick to the fact that the Danish Health Service is saying today that these substances are not harmful. But of course we have to do everything we can to phase out these drugs. So I think we should take it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143415	Does it not also make the impression that what we are talking about here is chewing gum? Well, it's not rye bread or liver pie or other things you might think you need, it's just chewing gum, which is then suddenly going to be a health-damaging strain on the young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143434	Yes, but we're still gone just have to say today that the Danish Health Authority says it doesn't have a harmful effect. And we have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143445	Thank you. Then there is no further comment on this rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143458	Thank you. I refer to my first speech on B 37, since the Left similarly recognises the seriousness of the problems in the field of chemistry and believes that we need to find a solution to the problems through the EU track. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us. We look forward to further good discussions in committee and with the Minister, as we have discussed on several occasions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143529	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143531	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware that Danish researchers and Danish experts recommend that we phase out chemicals that are or are suspected of being endocrine disruptors and that we regulate them much more strongly than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143558	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143559	I believe that everyone who is here today is aware of the fact that there are a great many reports and information, including those to which the questioner is now referring, and that is why it is also good that the Minister has just invited us to a technical review in this area, so that we have all had the opportunity to study it more closely. I also heard a great deal of recognition and support for the fact that we can now move forward with the discussions with the Minister and in committee to tackle these issues, so we in the Left are looking forward to that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143630	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143631	Now I just heard the Minister of the Left say that it was almost exaggerated that we were dealing with these things and that we are sweeping away experts who advise that the existing protection is sufficient. Then I would just like to point out to the rapporteur of the Left that this is not correct. In fact, there are Danish researchers, some of them working at the Rigshospitalet's Reproduction Centre, who say that these drugs need to be regulated much more strongly than we do today, and we need to take political responsibility for that in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143703	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143704	If we are to achieve some results, I think it is also important that we have some good discussions, both in committee and with the Minister, which we have highlighted several times today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143715	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143718	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about the proportion of this. It strikes me that we here are just talking about gum, that is, something you eat like that for fun or for fun. After all, there is nothing necessary in the daily diet. Wouldn't it be reasonable to cut into the leg here and say that the proportions are completely in the hemp, that is, that we have toxic substances in something that you just eat for fun? And they can even be phased out immediately because they are not necessary to have in chewing gum. There's plenty of gum without it. Would it not be reasonable for us to look after our young people here at home and hurry to make a ban in order to show the way in the European Union in this way, so that a broader ban can be introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143806	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143807	I have said today on several occasions, and I am happy to do it again, that I think we should follow the EU path. I fully agree that we must, of course, have the proportions in place, and that is why I can very well refer to the answer given by the Minister and with which I am fully in line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143823	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408143832	As in the case of motion for a resolution No. B 38 I would like to refer to some general remarks which I also made in connection with the debate on motion for a resolution. B 37. I would also like to thank the authors of the proposals once again for bringing these chemical substances to the surface and for debating them here in the Assembly. Because I think it is somehow enlightening for the Danish people and the Danish consumer. As I said from the platform earlier today in the debate on some of the other motions for resolutions, this has led me to look at my own consumption habits. And since I am at least at times a little dependent on chewing gum, I have also gone through some of my chewing gum storage and have been able to find, to my horror, that at least the chewing gum I have in my office here in Christiansborg contains E 321, which is, I believe, one of the substances mentioned in the motion for a resolution. Fortunately, I have then been happy to note that both the European and the Danish health authorities have assessed the risks of these substances and say that there is no risk from the current use and the current intake in humans. Some limit values have already been set by the European Commission. We in the Liberal Alliance are very pleased about this and, as I have already said, we in the Liberal Alliance want Danish environmental and chemical legislation to follow European law. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144023	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144025	It's absolutely true that if you were exposed to this one drug, there wouldn't be a problem. That is what the risk assessment relates to, and if you get a little in gum and you get a little from other foods, there is no problem. The problem with these drugs is that this regulation is incomplete because you don't take into account the cocktail effects because you don't know how to do it. Both children and adults get something from among others. the cosmetics they use; it may be from shampoo, soap and cream; it may be some other substances from food; there may be something in the clothes you wear, etc. Therefore, despite the fact that there is a risk assessment for the substance, we need to make a broader regulation until we manage the cocktail effects on the basis of a precautionary principle. And does the rapporteur not agree that a totally unnecessary substance in chewing gum for children was a place where action could be taken because exposure to children is currently too high?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144128	It looks as if we are missing a minister at the moment, and that is not so good. There's the minister left. We would like to know when the Minister leaves the Chamber if it is necessary to leave. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144147	Thank you. Yes, now a black clap went down, I think, because we lost the minister, and it was really terrible. I think the questioner asked whether I did not think it necessary to find alternatives when there was a chance of this and these chewing gum for children could actually be placed on the market without containing the said substances. You can of course choose to regulate in many ways, but in the Liberal Alliance, as I have already mentioned, we want to follow European legislation in general, because we believe that it offers the best security. I would also like to follow up on something the Minister mentioned earlier, namely whether we are talking it up or down. In fact, I believe that the Enhedslisten may cause unnecessary concern to consumers in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144254	Thank you. I think you create unnecessary security if you say: Well, yes, this one drug is assessed safely, and therefore we do not need to intervene. It is not responsible to have that view because we are not taking into account the cocktail effects right now. That's why we're raising these debates. After all, it is in the hope that we will then get a discussion under way that we will get some action in the past that has worked and actually helped to push EU legislation, which has actually meant that we have better rules than we did if we did not, but will the rapporteur not recognise that one substance cannot be looked at only when we are discussing the dangers of chemicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144340	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144342	Yes, I would very much like to acknowledge that there are probably cocktail effects and that, of course, it is also something that needs to be included in the assessments. In addition, however, I am completely confident about the risk assessment of all chemical substances by both the European and the Danish health authorities, and I am quite sure that they will not carry out risk assessments and deliberately overlook any effects that could have a harmful effect on health on both the Danish and the European population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144412	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144421	I would just like to refer to my rapporteur's speech from earlier today to B 37 and then point out in this case that there is a particular angle to this about the fact that the proportions are biased here. We're not talking about rye bread or liver pie. We are talking about chewing gum, which you eat a little too much for fun, and having substances that can potentially be dangerous in chewing gum seems to me quite silly, and it is therefore obvious that you are working for a Danish ban and that you are also working together at the European level to have this phased out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144510	Thank you. There's no questioners. Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144518	I would like to refer to my general comments on motion for a resolution B 38 and then say that I think this is another area where it would be best to go the EU way, but perhaps also an area where Denmark can nevertheless consider what we have of opportunities. Because we have actually moved some things, for example. in relation to chrome in leather, and there are also some other places where we have gone in very targeted and where there have been alternatives. So I will not completely rule out looking at what Denmark can do within a reasonable timeframe if nothing happens at EU level in this area. But I think again that the government should step up and put pressure on this area, and I hope that industry will then put pressure on the government because they know that there is a risk that a Danish ban might come if the government does not tighten up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144609	Thank you. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding has just made a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144612	Once again, I would like to thank you for the outstretched hand of the Radicals. Should I understand that we can draw up a report on the basis of this proposal, which says: let us try to go the EU way for a while, and if we fail then we will see what we can do in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144629	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144630	Radicals would like to support this. I think that's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144638	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144648	The SF is in favour of this motion for a resolution, and we are also pleased that, after the change of government, Denmark is also putting pressure on the Commission to adopt common criteria for endocrine disruptors. After all, the Commission had long ago come up with the criteria, namely back in December 2013, and in December 2015, it got a rap on its fingers at the Court of Justice because it had not yet brought them. It is not enough to stress how critical it is, especially when it comes to a Commission that expects us to follow the European Union's path. But it does not even live up to what it has imposed year after year and after massive pressure from Denmark and other countries. It is obvious that the government is formulating a strategy on what should happen once the criteria have been adopted, in addition to ensuring that they are not watered down criteria. The lack of criteria has delayed the serious and official determination of endocrine disruptors as CMR substances, i.e. reprotoxic substances. It would be a good thing if the Minister could lift the veil today or in committee and tell us whether there is a strategy among those countries that are pressing for the criteria to be adopted on how to ensure a rapid ban on endocrine disruptors across the board. Will the government, for example? propose that endocrine disruptors should immediately be placed on the candidate list in REACH and therefore also banned in the Cosmetics Regulation, the Pesticides Regulation and other horizontal acts? The SF is in favour of this proposal. If it is necessary, in order for us to find each other in this Chamber, to draw up a binding report in committee which obliges the government to take action, especially in view of the fact that the Commission has not, of course, assumed the responsibility which it has imposed on itself and which it has had massive criticism of not having complied with, namely by failing to draw up the criteria, then of course we will support it. That is also what I am hearing from the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. And from the SF we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144908	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, does not appear to be present, and then we go on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408144934	The resolution we are now debating is about banning two hormone disruptors in chewing gum for children. At the beginning of the discussion of this proposal, I think the Minister indicated that we would exaggerate a little when we deal with these proposals because these substances are considered safe. There I would like to stress that it is not enough to look at just a few substances, and that is what has been done here. We need to take into account that there are cocktail effects and that right now we do not have the full overview of how these cocktail effects take place, how the drugs play together in the human organism and how much they amplify each other. That's what the scientists say. That is why we believe that a cautious approach must be taken. It has to be said that where we can do without substances that are endocrine disruptors, we must do so. Where we can protect children, in particular, from dangerous endocrine disruptors, we must do so. If children were only exposed to these drugs, there was no problem, but they don't just do that. They are exposed to a lot of drugs. Are we exaggerating when we put forward such a chemical package that contains so many measures and is so wide? I don't think we're exaggerating. I would like to read from a chronicle that some of Denmark's leading researchers in this area have written • Over the past few decades there has been an inexplicable increase in the incidence of diseases closely associated with the hormone system. We see several malformations of newborn genital organs, more frequent puberty disorders, reduced reproductive capacity and a significant increase in the number of men with testicular cancer. I don't mean we're exaggerating. Later, the researchers write: "Our studies show that one in six Danish children is exposed to phthalates in concentrations that exceed Efsa's limits of tolerable daily intake. When these phthalates don't even stand alone, when they even go along with chewing gum substances, with things that come in via food, with toys, with cans, I don't think we exaggerate. Are we therefore creating unnecessary concern by discussing in the Folketing a package of chemicals aimed at reducing the exposure of the population to endocrine disruptors? I believe that what causes concern is when one can read that leading researchers in Denmark write that they strongly recommend that we regulate endocrine disruptors more restrictively than is the case today. I think it causes concern when the Consumer Council goes out and finds substances that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency also recognises are dangerous in cans, in soda cans. We find phthalates that we have known for 30 years are dangerous, in toys, in wax cloths, in shower curtains, in school bags, in erasers, in pencil cases. It's causing concern. People are worried about this, and it is particularly worrying if we do not take it up in the Folketing if we do not respond at all to the debate that is out there. The people have confidence that we are looking after them, that we are ensuring that there are rules so that we cannot just add things that can be harmful to consumer products. Therefore, I think it is absolutely crucial that we discuss these things, that we show that we take these things deeply seriously here in the Folketing. After all, this specific proposal is about children and chewing gum, and one might wonder whether we are below the de minimis threshold. But when we know there are alternatives, when we know it's possible to produce gum without these drugs, then it's also to say: let's look at where it's easy to put in. It is to say that in chewing gum for children one should not be allowed to add a substance that we believe is endocrine disrupting. There's no reason for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145419	Thank you. Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145422	Just again: it is a bit a question, in relation to the rapporteur saying that it is important, perhaps not so much to look at the individual substance as it is to look at precisely this cocktail effect, which we have discussed very many times in the Committee on the Environment and Food, because it is so difficult to assess what is dangerous and what is not dangerous. But when the proposals put forward here by Enhedslisten go precisely on individual substances, it is not the cocktail effect that we are discussing. Then it's the individual substances we're discussing. So I'm not professional enough to be able to judge whether a substance is dangerous or not. I very much hope that there are some experts around who can tell us politicians, because that is what we are after all, whether things are dangerous or not, and that is where we have an assessment. Does the rapporteur not think that this is the way to talk a little loudly and when I say it, it is still not enough to neglect the problem to say that it is a chemical package that they have presented here today when each proposal concerns individual substances?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145527	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145529	Thank you for the question. I would very much like to put out a package that was about cocktail effects. The problem is that we're still so far from understanding how it works. I read an interview with some scientists. It goes back a few years, but what they said at the time was now I can't remember the quote exactly like it's like sitting in front of a puzzle with a thousand pieces and having gathered only a few. But we know there's something called cocktail effects. We know that the drugs can play together and reinforce each other, and what we want to raise here is whether we can take the drugs out in some places where we know that there are alternatives. For what the Danish experts are saying is: let us turn down all the places we can, such as. for unnecessary uses in chewing gum, where you can easily use something else. Let's turn it down there. Let's get rid of the phthalates. The Minister has already done so; it is commendable. We should have done that a long time ago, but now we're getting started, that's really good. Let's get rid of them and get those alternatives, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145632	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145633	Thank you for your answer. I do not really believe, and I think I have said this in the past, that we are so terribly divided. Because we all want to get rid of these dangerous substances; then we just do it in a slightly different way. That is why I said earlier that I think there is a difference between the discussion. I would perhaps have liked to have had a question debate on what is happening, or something like that, precisely because, as the rapporteur also says, this understanding of what is happening in relation to cocktail effects can be very difficult. When I say that, it is also a little bit seen in the light of the fact that it is true that there are some substances suspected of being hormone disruptors in chewing gum, and I do not see what they are doing there either. in carrots. There are also substances that can interfere with hormones. For example: Soy beans are recommended for women with breast cancer not to eat too much. So there is also something in natural products, and perhaps that is where I think the proportions are getting a little out of hand sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145736	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145737	The exposure to the Danish population, i.e. the amount we get, is too high. Then we can go in and say, where can we remove it? until we have the full overview that we might get in a very, very long time. Until we know exactly what we have to do, we can turn down and try to remove the substances that we know are most dangerous, where it is most obvious. And that is the balance we have tried to strike in the chemical package we have presented here and which we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145808	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145824	The debate is open. First, the Minister for the Environment and Food, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408145848	Thank you for that, President. Parliament has dealt with similar proposals sometimes in the past, most recently motion for a resolution No. B-60 last year and we agree that these four phthalates must be regulated. The government believes that chemistry should be regulated in the EU. This also applies to the phthalates. EU regulation provides the best protection. Chemistry crosses borders, and most of the consumer products we buy are not produced in Denmark, so a national ban would cause Danish importers of goods major problems. We also see a tendency for consumers to buy more and more goods online and also from other EU countries. The EU way is therefore the sensible way to go, as it provides the best protection for consumers, while ensuring that Danish companies are competitive on the European market. A number of applications of the four phthalates are already regulated in both the EU and Denmark. Last year, for example, we voted. in the EU, that the four phthalates from 2019 may no longer be used in electronics and electronic equipment manufactured in the EU or imported into the EU. This probably means that the entire global electronics production will phase out the use of the four phthalates in electronics. This has been the result of the other substances previously banned in electronics production. Also in relation to toys and children's articles, there is an EU ban on the use of three of the four phthalates, a ban that we in Denmark have extended through national rules, so the ban applies to all phthalates in toys and children's articles. In addition, the four phthalates are covered by the authorisation scheme of REACH. This means that since 21 February 2015, companies have not been legally able to market and use them in the EU unless they have applied for an authorisation from the Commission. The authorisation scheme applies only to companies in the EU and therefore products produced in and imported from China, for example, can legally contain phthalates unless they are subject to a ban. We take account of this bias in the process already under way for the four phthalates, which we in Denmark are working with the European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, on. The Danish EPA, together with ECHA, has prepared a proposal for new restrictions and content of the four phthalates in consumer products that we expect will result in regulation at EU level. In the proposal, we propose to limit the use of phthalates in products for indoor use and, in addition, in products for outdoor use, where the phthalate-containing object may come in cash with skin or mucous membranes. The proposal was tabled on 1 April and I am now looking forward to the further examination of the proposal by the ECHA Committees on Risk Assessment and Socio-economic Analysis respectively. It is then sent to the Commission for final decision by the REACH Committee. We must, of course, await the outcome of the work that we ourselves have helped to set in motion. Unfortunately, this is not something we can complete in 2016, because it takes time to implement the formal steps of the ECHA committees, including public consultation of the proposal. In addition, in relation to the harmonisation of the process under REACH, work cannot be done on both a national and an EU restriction at the same time. It is therefore very difficult to make national rules in the field of chemistry legally. So the government cannot support the resolution. We do not believe that national regulation is the way forward in the field of chemistry. Having said that, I share the view that endocrine disruptors must be out of our everyday lives, and it must be through regulation that has an effect. That is why we must continue to work for a general ban on the four phthalates at EU level. I am very concerned that we are dealing with the problems of endocrine disruptors. That is why I hope that we can gather together on a joint effort to have a strong EU regulation of these substances. We must push and help to drive the European Union towards a strong EU-wide regulation of endocrine disruptors. As I have said during the discussion of the previous proposals, I hope that our political discussions in the field of chemistry will ensure a targeted and holistic approach to dealing with the substances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150225	Thank you. We are moving on with the phthalates, and Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding has the first comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150234	Thank you. It went very fast, and I hope I've caught all the details. I would like to start by commending the Minister for taking the lead in trying to phase out these phthalates at EU level. This is something we have been working for here in the Folketing for several years too. I hope we will receive a written briefing to the committee if we have not already received it. Can the Minister say a little more about whether this ban applies to all uses? So, is it really the Danish phthalate regulation that has been translated into EU level, and will it enter into force for all uses by 2020, or is it earlier for some?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150318	I cannot answer that question until the treatment that is being carried out is complete. We would very much like to provide explanations of this in relation to the demand that the rapporteur makes. I would like to thank you for the rose. It is not a praise to the government alone, it is a job that has been done for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150332	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150333	So we will get some light on the proposal when it has been through the scientific committees, or will it be at an earlier stage? Can you gain insight into the process along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150347	Thank you. We can give an account of the process itself, i.e. how early we know of partial results, partial conclusions and how extensive what we are going to report to the final reading will be. So we can give a very accurate picture of what is going to happen over the next few years as we expect it to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150406	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Malte Larsen, Social Democracy, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150420	Thank you. The resolution instructs the government to work for a general European ban on the four most harmful phthalates in products with which children come into contact, and if this is not achieved in 2016, the government is invited to explore the possibilities of a national ban. I would also like to sign for the joyful tones that have been in this area over the past few days. We in Denmark have taken advantage of the possibility of making national bans before, and the crucial thing for us is that it takes place within the framework of EU chemicals legislation. In this area, S wants to go as far as we possibly can within the framework of the European Union. That is why we support the report of 14 April 2015 and therefore also support B 40.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150512	Thank you. There are no comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150517	Thank you for that, and also thank you for the proposal, because it has been an interesting discussion, by the way, on the three previous proposals, but I think this proposal is actually quite excellent. We have some phthalates we don't like. At the same time, however, I would like to say, and I think I have indicated this too, a little in relation to the questions I have put to the authors of the previous proposals, that we in the Danish People's Party, at least in these areas, see a difference as to where it is really possible to do something. I understand the problem very well, and I think it is true that we are dealing with it and I think it is right that we are discussing it and I think it is right that we are pressing for it. But when I first got acquainted with these four phthalates, I was going to study what the hell they are used for, and they are plastic softeners, and they are used, among other things. I was thinking: okay, if we are to ban it, and it is only at Danish level, then we must tell our citizens in Denmark that they can no longer buy a television or a computer and that they can no longer buy a bath curtain if it is produced in other countries, because now we are making a definite import ban. And that in my optics is completely unrealistic. That is why I also think it is very good and positive about the developments that have taken place and that, in the course of the last week's time or 14 days, we have been told that something is actually happening in the European Union in the market where there is, after all, a much greater pressure on producers outside the European Union. At the same time, it is my impression that the industry in the European Union and in Denmark, precisely because there has been a debate on these four phthalates, does not use them very much. I think there are very few companies that have received an approval. So this is not a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party can support, but I think it is important to say that we are certainly not negative about it. That is just as important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150729	Thank you. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150733	In fact, this proposal dates back to 2010, when the Danish People's Party supported it. The fact that the Danish People's Party supported it then helped to make a phthalate decree. It turned out that a Left Minister took it to a more ambitious level than what was actually in the original resolution from us, where we had only targeted it towards children. It was Mrs Karen Ellemann who at the time made a general ban, in other words in relation to many more uses. So it can be said that we have reached where we are today, where we are now starting to move to the EU, that it started back in 2010 • a long Danish effort, among other things. because the Danish People's Party, together with the parties in the red bloc, supported a motion for a resolution with this wording. I would just like to say this because we have been discussing whether to go one way or another, and this shows that going the national road has certainly taken many, many man-hours in the regimes, but it is moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150836	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150838	Now there was not so much a question in it, so I would just like to say, as a comment, that it is true. I also think we should make an assessment every time we have such a proposal, so simply make a concrete assessment of whether this is a place we want to go in. In the articles I have been reading, both the previous government, with the Social Democrats and the Radicals in the lead, and the previous government, where it was a bourgeois government, have had some problems in that it was quite difficult to get through at EU level. Nevertheless, precisely because there was the majority, we have worked for it, and we can say that it is the success that we are seeing today. I think that is a good thing, it is not at all, but I must admit that there are also some things in which I sometimes think: this seems unrealistic to me. Then it may well be that we have a different view of how far one should go and how national one should become.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150928	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408150930	If this seems unrealistic today, it has seemed even more unrealistic in 2010. I just want to say that we, together, the Red Block and the Danish People's Party, have actually made some milestones in the field of chemistry by standing together, and I would be a little sad if that desire disappears now that we are standing in 2016 and we present a chemistry package that the Danish People's Party is sceptical about as far as the majority of the proposals are concerned. So I would just like to urge you to look back over the years and see that one of the reasons why we have come so far in phthalates, which includes many dangerous substances, we know, is cooperation that we have had over a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151007	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151008	I think that is also clear to see when you look at the cases from previous years when we have made reports together. We have not necessarily always been entirely in agreement with the reports, but we have, after all, had an overall understanding that we can push for it. As I say, it is not because we in the Danish People's Party are sitting and being negative about doing something about this, because we also want to protect consumers, but I think there are some places where we think we can do it in a different way, and then there are some places where we can also go together. That is certainly not a bad thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151038	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151048	Thank you. I refer to my first speech in B 37, which also recognises the seriousness of the issues and believes that we need to find a solution to the problems through the European Union, which is also well explained in the reply from the Minister. In the light of these comments, I should like to say here too that we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151112	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151126	I feel almost completely affected by the cocktail effect. Now it's starting to go a little fast. In fact, I would note here that it would have been nice if the five motions for resolutions which we are dealing with had also been affected by the cocktail effect and had been put together for the co-examination of the five motions for resolutions. However, like the previous rapporteur, I should also like to refer to my slightly more general remarks in motion for a resolution. B 37, and otherwise I would like to say that I think we should wait for the ongoing process, which will probably lead to stricter EU regulation in the coming period. The minister tried before to give an estimate of when it would happen. I do not know whether that was accurate enough for the proposers, but otherwise I am quite sure that Enhedslisten will bring us back to the subject at a later stage. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to my earlier comments during the previous readings of the motions for resolutions today, namely that we in the Liberal Alliance in general want Danish environmental and chemical legislation to follow EU practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151257	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151259	Now it was very conscious that we chose these proposals to be dealt with individually, precisely so that the parties had the opportunity to do so, and there has also been good reason to be able to choose to support them in different ways and at different levels. So I'm actually really happy about that. Yes, that was just my comment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151321	Thank you. This also leads me to say that the Liberal Alliance does not actually support the motion for a resolution. In fact, I think that I forgot just now, just as we have not supported the previous three, nor do we support the next motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151337	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151344	Thank you. I would just like to refer to my rapporteur's speech on motion B 37 earlier today and round off by saying that we support this proposal, just as we support the others in the Chemistry Package from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151403	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151410	Now it's fast, but we've also been around the same discussion several times. I think this is the fourth time we've been doing it. On the radical side, we refer to our comments on B 38 and can also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151428	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151441	Thank you. I would also like to refer to the previous remarks I have made. There is no need to repeat them. I think we know where we stand by now. But I think it is very good, as Mrs Reumert Gjerd mentioned, to divide up the motions for resolutions, because there are still some nuances between the various proposals. I would also like to say a few words, and it is not polemical that I think it is a pity that the DF does not support it this time, precisely in relation to the history, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding explained very well, so that you can move something by doing it nationally, putting pressure on the national. But let's just leave it alone. I'm sure there are some reasons for this. The SF supports this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151528	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party is not present, so that is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151539	Thank you for that and thank you for the support of several parties. There has, of course, been a new development, it can be said today that there was an announcement that the Minister for the Environment was now ready, together with the EU agency ECHA, to actually propose an EU ban on these dangerous chemicals. It's very, very positive, because it's no secret that we in Enhedslisten have been fighting to get these phthalates banned for really, very many years. We have, among other things. made together with a number of other parties here in the Folketing. We have actually been working together on this in a red block; we have been working with the Danish People's Party on it. The distinctive thing happened after we adopted a resolution banning phthalates targeted children back in 2010 that the then Environment Minister, Mrs Karen Ellemann, actually made the ban more far-reaching, so it was said that it was a ban on phthalates in all applications. This then led to a phthalate notice, with which there were some challenges, for one was a little surprised: these phthalates were everywhere. They were found in swim animals, in curtains, in school bags, in cycling guides, very, very many places. And it initially slowed down the phthalate regulation, for it turned out to be very, very difficult to introduce such an ambitious announcement. But I really think that this shows very well why the EU track is inadequate. We often hear that when the European Union considers these substances to be dangerous, they are placed on a so-called candidate list, and that is a clear signal list for companies, and then companies start phasing out the drugs, because then they know that a ban might soon come up. That was not the case here. And we are dealing with drugs that we have known for so many years are deeply problematic. They were on the EU's candidate list and yet they have been in very, very many products. We know that these are substances that are both endocrine disruptors and carcinogenic. It is also particularly worrying and, of course, it is related to the widely used use that it is some of the substances that are most common when you measure what we actually have in our body. So of course there's this connection between the use of dangerous substances and what we absorb in the body and what affects us. So we should not be led to believe that because a substance is on the candidate list, companies are starting to react. A ban is necessary. I also think that what we have done in Denmark, and which I also raised with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, actually shows that the fact that we are throwing our strength into things, that we are starting to take initiatives for something national, is moving forward. It takes time, yes, but it's moving anyway. I look forward very much to getting more knowledge of what this specific proposal contains, whether it is all applications it contains or whether it is only some and when we can expect it to come into force. And that is why I think it is still relevant to maintain this proposal because we need to delve into it properly and look at what the European Union might be doing before we conclude that a national ban is no longer necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151934	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408151946	The debate is open. It's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152000	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten wishes to protect consumers in the best possible way against harmful chemistry and, therefore, by means of the motion for a resolution, will ban 30 substances in cosmetic products which are suspected to be endocrine disruptors in different contexts. We all use a wide range of different products daily • we brush our teeth, wash our hair and hands • and also our children and young people use cosmetic products. There should therefore be no doubt that cosmetic products must be safe for all consumers and especially for children and young people. The rules clearly state that it is the manufacturer's responsibility that cosmetic products do not pose a risk to human health. As the scientific basis for the assessment of the chemical substances in our cosmetic products increases, regulation is also targeted. The government works for that every day. Danish consumers must be able to feel safe when buying cosmetic products. This applies both when the consumer buys cosmetic products in shops, over the net and on holiday in other countries. If you as a consumer want to be extra careful in your choice of cosmetics, you can already choose substances from which the EU has pointed out as possible endocrine disruptors by choosing swan-labelled cosmetics. The government's starting point is that chemical substances must be regulated in the EU. This provides not only the best consumer protection, but also fair conditions for Danish producers. Businesses therefore have to deal with only one set of rules, which makes it possible for the rules to be observed more easily and for trade in the EU to work. Cosmetics is regulated under the EU Cosmetics Regulation, which is totally harmonic. Therefore, the individual Member States cannot adopt national rules, which is why I cannot, as a starting point, introduce specific Danish rules for cosmetics. It is only possible for a Member State to prohibit substances in cosmetics under the safeguard clause where there is a serious risk to human health. Such risk shall be documented. If the Commission considers that the national measure is justified, the Cosmetics Regulation must be revised. Regardless of the outcome, the national action shall be terminated. The 30 substances that Enhedslisten wants to ban in cosmetics are substances that the Consumer Council Think recommends avoiding in cosmetic products. The 30 substances are, to varying degrees, suspected of being endocrine disruptors. Most of the substances have been identified as possible by the EU as endocrine disruptors and priority given to them for further investigation. This has happened over 10 years ago, and some of the substances have subsequently been regulated in cosmetics by setting specific concentration limits. This is true, for example. for parabens and triclosan. Other substances are already banned in cosmetics. This applies to boric acid, while a ban on 3-BC has just entered into force in February. It is true that most risk assessments in the European Union do not look at the combination effects of the substances, i.e. they do not. takes into account that we are exposed to several different substances with the same effects on a daily basis. However, the most recent assessment of parabens has taken this into account by setting a total concentration limit. But it is not possible to do so in general. One simply lacks knowledge of most substances individually to be able to say something about the combination effects of them. As soon as we can document a risk to consumers through the use of a endocrine disruptor in cosmetic products, I will ensure that we in the European Union put pressure on stricter regulation and a higher level of protection. It is possible to regulate endocrine disruptors in cosmetics when we have scientific evidence that a substance poses a risk to consumers or when the industry cannot document the safe use of a substance. For example, with the support of Denmark in 2015, the EU banned the 3-BC UV filter in cosmetic products. 3-BC is at the top of the list that the Enhedslisten with this resolution wants to ban and is on the EU list of potentially endocrine disruptors. At the same time, I am pushing for criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors to be developed in the European Union. I am currently working with several countries in the European Union to put pressure on the Commission to speed up the EU's chemical work. This also applies to the work on establishing EU criteria for endocrine disruptors, which is the crunch in terms of getting the regulatory work going. Once we have identified the endocrine disruptors, we can start talking about how best to handle them in our cosmetic products and our other everyday products. Pending the criteria, it is still possible, as mentioned earlier, to regulate endocrine disruptors in cosmetic products if the documentation is available. Therefore, work is also being done under EU chemicals regulation, REACH, which is working to identify endocrine disruptors case-by-case, because there are no specific requirements for criteria in that legislation. For example, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has... together with ECHA prepared a proposal for new restrictions on the content of four phthalates in consumer products, which we expect will result in regulation at EU level. At national level, I hope that we can unite on a joint effort to have a strong EU regulation of these substances. We must push and help to drive the European Union towards a strong EU-wide regulation of endocrine disruptors. And, as I have said during the discussion of the previous resolutions, I hope that our political discussions in the field of chemistry will ensure a targeted and comprehensive approach to dealing with the substances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152521	Thank you, Minister. A brief remark from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152525	Thank you very much. Since it is the case that Danish researchers and experts recommend that we regulate substances that are either or are suspected of being endocrine disruptors, more harsh than today, does the Minister not agree that it makes the most sense to put in places where we know there is no need for the drugs? So, does the Minister not agree that you can make these cosmetic products, which this resolution is about, without these substances that are suspected of being endocrine disruptors, so agree that it makes the most sense to go in and take an interest in places where we can remove the substances without completely destroying the function of the products?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152603	Thank you for the question. Now I do not know what the scope of the rapporteur is in relation to the question: the extent, the number of substances, who should take responsibility for it, who should be entrusted with the task of doing so, etc. So, unfortunately, the rapporteur will have to elaborate further on a question, if I have to reply more precisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152623	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152623-2	I actually think of it more as a general principle in relation to where we should give priority. Because if we agree to follow what researchers and experts in this field say, namely that we have to do something, because concentration is therefore the exposure that the population in Denmark, but also in other countries are exposed to is basically too high, so we have to put in some places, doesn't it make the most sense to put in places where we can see that the drugs can be dispensed? There are swan-marked products, as the Minister also mentioned. So it's possible to remove these drugs while we still have functional products. Do we not agree with the basic principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152702	Yes, it is clear that to the extent that harmful substances can be replaced by non-substances, that is preferable. And this is the discussion that must be going on at all times both within the EU system, in REACH, in other words in the work that we have there, but also, of course, in the domestic production area. Now, as the rapporteur has also noted earlier today, I have not been Minister for the Environment for so long, so I have not yet had discussions with industry on these matters. But it's obvious that everyone in this society has an interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152737	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152740	I would just like to raise the issue of the precautionary principle again here, because we are dealing with some substances that we are told may have some endocrine disrupting effects that are unpleasant. If we are dealing with substances which we are putting directly on the skin, was it not reasonable that we should take an extra step towards protecting consumers from these substances in the name of the precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152810	I am very concerned about precautionary principles, so I share a general concern with the rapporteur in certain areas, but not with regard to this. I am very confident that the work we are doing in interaction, among other things. with other countries under the REACH criteria, leads to the right result, and I do not want us to have any special rules to the extent that we can avoid it. Moreover, this is not in line with the principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152842	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur's line of work is now beginning, and that is first Mr Beazley's line of work. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152852	Thank you. The proposal instructs the government to put forward a bill prohibiting the use of 30 known endocrine disruptors in cosmetics, while at the same time working for a rapid ban in the EU. As has already been said, the Socialists believe that endocrine disruptors must be combated, and it is very worrying that the substances are used in, for example. shampoo and toothpaste, which most people use every day. The Socialists support the fact that a rapid ban is being pursued in the European Union, but cannot support a national ban now and here. The Socialists once again believe that the best protection for consumers is a common EU ban, and on that basis we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152935	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408152937	I would actually like to say a little of the same thing I have already mentioned to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. In the past, we have been united in securing some achievements in Denmark, which then actually produce results in the European Union. The sucking bottles are one example. The phthalates may turn out to be much more widespread. So it is just a call to the Socialists to consider it, because these two tracks are therefore closely linked. And now that we've done something in the past we just need to look back a few years to see that we've actually moved something, I don't understand this perfect resistance to going well into this. So, the Consumer Council's app Kemiluppen, which they have developed and which, after all, has thousands of products in it, shows that 70 per cent. of the products on the market do not contain these substances. So it is, after all, a group that we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153037	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153037-2	I am a little sorry that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion ignores the result-oriented approach of the Socialists to the issue. It is the case that, in our own optics, we choose the most effective way of achieving the objective which appears to be the same. Personally, I also want to see a faster European Union. Personally, I also wish the Minister had greater strength to negotiate with the other EU countries. However, we are choosing the path that we believe to be the right one, in order to achieve the goal that we have jointly set of protecting consumers from dangerous chemistry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153117	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153118	The problem is that the premise is wrong. The Socialists say that you choose the EU track and not the national one. After all, we have just seen that the two tracks are connected and support each other in a very good way, which actually makes us secure results. So choosing the EU track and throwing a lot of effort into getting rules involving a lot of countries does not stand in opposition to working for something national as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153148	So I am not going to let the rapporteur for the proposers lecture me on what is right and what is wrong. It is the case that we choose the path where we believe the results are achieved quickly and most effectively and to the best possible benefit to consumers. I really wish that Enhedslisten would acknowledge that and that they might follow the same path.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153209	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153217	Thank you. The Enhedslisten wishes to ban endocrine disruptors or substances suspected of being endocrine disruptors in cosmetics, both at EU level and possibly at national level. I will again rely on the fact that I think we should be very real. I would also like it to be a personal remark that these tables of contents on a mascara were somewhat larger, so that they could be read more easily, because I am now having problems with it. Having said that, it is because there are at least some things that have personally surprised me, namely that such things as nickel can be found in mascara. I didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to do. I thought nickel was the kind of thing that was completely phased out, but it isn't. So I really think that the problem is quite real. We're not gonna have hormone disruptors in anything. These substances are suspected to be endocrine disruptors, some are one can then always discuss whether these limit values are the right ones. But in my optics and in the optics of the Danish People's Party it is thus the case that when it comes to the free movement of goods in the environmental field, when it comes to the areas where we are dealing with drugs that are being used all over the world, it makes the best sense to follow the EU path. Once again, I have protested very, very many times against the EU. I have been an EU rapporteur for 6 years, but just on the environment, when it comes to clean water, clean air and chemicals, so the EU track is the right track to follow with the eyes of the Danish People's Party. So we do not support the proposal, but certainly share the concern, and I hope somewhere in relation to the first three proposals, perhaps not so much the latter, that we can make a report in committee that we can look at how we get this done in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153430	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153433	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not share the concern about what we call the cocktail effect, i.e. that when it comes to cosmetics, which are often placed in several layers and with many different products, and that there may be 50 different chemicals in each product, there is absolutely no control over the effect; so that it is not just a matter of having substances that may be problematic here, and that we should therefore perhaps regulate for the sake of the precautionary principle, but that there is also the extra effect here, that it works, being put on the skin, together with a number of other substances, and that the overall effect is not controlled at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153519	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153520	Of course I share the concern, but I also think, without being a professional expert, that what is the problem is that those who are professionally skilled also have difficulty in finding out how we measure this with the cocktail effect. Well, the easiest thing would be if none of us used makeup, if neither of us chewed gum, if we only used natural products. But again, I would just like to say that I have read articles on the presence of endocrine disruptors in legumes, among others. Soy beans, and that the Danish Health Authority therefore advises against cancer sufferers, so that women who have previously had breast cancer are advised not to eat too many soy products. What, then, are we to ban? It's not a chemical product. It is something that comes from nature. And what kind of cocktail effect does it have if I eat 5 kg peas a day and then put lipstick on it? I can't answer that, I don't know. So I think that sometimes you have to put it a little in proportion. What are we talking about? I heard a specialist say that if lipstick is dangerous, you should eat 47 of them a day, and that is quite a lot, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153628	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153631	There are, of course, plenty of natural substances which are also problematic if you get too much of them, and that is how the whole chemical problem is. And that's why you get this kind of recommendation on natural things, that you, for example. should not give honey to infants of a certain age, because there may also be something in there. However, these are artificially manufactured substances which are deliberately added to products which we apply directly to the skin. There are alternatives, so you don't have to use these drugs. So wasn't it natural just to ban them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153701	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153702	Yes and no. 'Cause again, I'm not gonna make myself so smart that I'm gonna tell them they can just be spared. Now we're talking about cosmetics, so they probably can. But there are just places where we see that if, for example, you... didn't have plastic softeners, there were products we didn't have, which we're actually really happy about. If we did not have them and those things, there were products that we had to do without and which we today, with the way in which we live in a modern society, might be sorry to do without. So I think this is a balancing act, and as Mr. Christian Poll also says it's a matter of too little and too much of everything. Everything with moderation has always been my philosophy of life, and that's how I think it is with this. But of course we have to keep an eye on it, and that is also why I am trying to reach out and say: a story could be fine, so we keep an eye on what the hell we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153751	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153752	We would very much like to contribute to a report, but I do not quite understand the rapporteur's distinction between the EU track and the Danish track. And I would also like to say that there are plastic softeners, which are not phthalates, which are therefore not dangerous, and that is what we must stick to. There are alternatives, and it's actually a Danish company that has developed them and that would have a huge advantage if this phthalate ban like came through. The same applies to cosmetics. There are products without them. 70% of those that the Consumer Council has examined... they've scanned several thousand products... didn't have these dangerous substances. That is why it is possible, and Danish companies are actually at the forefront. So could we not try in the report to see whether we could also go in a national path?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153846	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153847	Again, I would say that I really believe that if you go on a national track, we must introduce an import ban. And then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I will not just say: yes, yes, we do. Then I want to know what it really is I'm saying yes or no to. I would very much like to extend my hand and I would very much like to take a positive view of it. I think this is important, it's not that at all. But I also want to know what exactly I am saying yes or no to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153912	Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153914	So a solution could be in committee work to clarify what it actually is, this will have consequences on the short and the long track. I also believe, as we have seen in the past, that it is working to set a deadline and say: we are now giving industry and the European Union some room for manoeuvre in some time, but we no longer accept the addition of harmful substances to products where they could really be spared.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408153939	We do not disagree at all with Enhedslisten in that. Well, we've shared that in the past too. I think what's important is to keep following this trail and having some proportion in it: what's harmful? Are there any limit values? Is it the limit values that we have to move, or is it the substance that must be completely banned, etc.? And there I think you just have to have such a healthy, skeptical approach to it, almost whatever it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154008	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154020	Thank you. I refer to my first speech on B 37, since the Left similarly recognises the seriousness of the issues and believes that we need to find a solution to the problems through the European Union. I can refer to the Minister's statement and answer to the questions, and on this basis I can also say that we cannot support the resolution before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154041	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154053	I would just like to welcome the debate here today. It has been very rewarding for myself and probably also for all the listeners. A lot of new knowledge has come out. Moreover, I also welcome the improvements that have been made over time due to Denmark's position in the field of chemistry, improvements that have helped consumers throughout the European Union. When we talk about precisely cosmetic products, which are the subject of the specific motion for a resolution, I have a great deal of sympathy with the concern of the authors of the motion for a resolution and of many other consumers, of course. That is precisely because cosmetic products are something we have very close to the body all the time. However, I am quite confident about the EU regulation on cosmetic products and the health authorities' risk assessment of the products concerned. I myself do not use so many cosmetic products, even though Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has taught me in the past that men who have consumed a lot of bisphenol A might actually need cosmetic products to improve the attractiveness of the opposite sex. That is why I am very pleased that, as far as I know at least, there are swan-marked cosmetic products which can be used and which may not contain this very harmful chemistry. Finally, I would just like to say once again that my general comments on motion for a resolution B 37 also apply to this motion for a resolution. The Liberal Alliance supports the current government's line and what we are now getting baptized the EU track, and therefore the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154308	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154312	I would also like to sign for a good debate today. The rapporteur says that he is very confident about the health recommendations that exist and about the risk assessments that exist. Is the rapporteur aware and recognises that they do not take into account what are cocktail effects? When you look at the individual substances, you get a completely inadequate picture of the risk and there is therefore a need to intervene, despite the fact that the risk assessments for each substance show a safe use.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154347	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154348	Thank you. I believe that, on a previous point from the questioner, I have also recognised that there are probably a number of cocktail effects when these substances are mixed together, and I also recognised that there is probably a need for research to be further dipped into that particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154410	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154412	The rapporteur is not quite comfortable with what is currently in place and the regulation there is. Do you want me to understand it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154419	In the same reply earlier, I think I also noticed that I do not believe that the health authorities concerned and others who risk assessing these substances, as well as withhold knowledge in relation to the risk assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154442	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154454	As before, I would like to refer to my general remarks on the rapporteur's speech to B 37, and I would just like to point out that these are substances in cosmetics, that is. substances that come into direct contact with the skin and sit for many hours with skin contact and that therefore it is a particularly good idea here to draw out the precautionary principle. That is why, of course, we support the proposal from the Enhedslisten. I would also like to take this opportunity in the last round to thank Enhedslisten for bringing this on track. It is a very important agenda to talk the chemicals through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154536	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154546	I would like to begin by referring to my general remarks during the discussion of B 38. Then I would say to the proposal made here by Enhedslisten to ban 30 different endocrine disruptors in cosmetics, that if we do, the Danish environmental authorities in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency have been paralysed by having to do nothing but legal proceedings and trouble for the next long time, and I simply do not think that is the wisest way to use those forces. I believe, as I said earlier, that it is much better to use our energies to push for the European Union. These substances must be removed and removed through the European Union, and they must be removed in a way that allows consumers to still have cosmetics, but can be completely safe about it. That is why we support the intention that a rapid EU ban would be really, very good, but the second part of the proposal for a national ban we think will cause really, very big problems. It will cause a lot of frustration and mean that there will be products that the Danes cannot have, and then they will probably start buying them online, and then we will probably be on the same page. So again, it's about how you think you get the most effect. I would say that some of these few national bans, which are very specific and very targeted, may have the purpose of pushing the European Commission to get started. I do not believe that a ban on 30 different substances at this time will have that function. On the contrary, I believe that the forces we have, which are really important and capable and have important pressure into the European Commission, will be used in the wrong way. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154722	In other words, if we believe that it will completely paralyse the environmental authorities, then we must assume that the companies will not be able to follow the rules that are being introduced at all. I think they can. I also think we need to recognise that the preparatory work we have been doing over the last six years in relation to phthalates, which were also used in a whole lot of things, is actually now proving to have an effect. This could also be expected to be extended to a number of other applications, and that is what is being proposed here. It is not, of course, about the fact that you can no longer have a shampoo or a soap if this is introduced. After all, the Consumer Council has just found that in 70%. of the products they go out and examine, there are no substances. That tells us two things. Firstly, it is possible to impose bans and still be able to obtain products, but secondly, there is good reason to intervene. For 30%. In other words, the cosmetic products on the market contain problematic chemistry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154821-2	Now Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is in the happy situation to be able to stand here and get all the fine points for everything that is nice and lovely and that the Danes are happy about: Ah, how nice it was to get rid of a lot of chemistry. She should not, as an environment minister would have to, stand up for what would happen if 30%. of the products the Danes can buy today were taken from the shelves. Let's just imagine the outcry that would be 30 percent. of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of products! of And by the way, people would just start buying those things across the border or ordering them over the net. And then we would be straight and not have protected the Danes anymore. What Radicals are concerned with is not symbolic politics. These are real changes, and if you want to ban 30 different drugs, then you need to go through the EU and put pressure on it, as Denmark has done, not least when Radicals, SF and Social Democrats had the power in Denmark, where we started drawing up a list and sent experts to the Commission and started getting the other countries to map these drugs. It is in this way that we can get them away in a way where consumers can still get a wide range of products that they can be comfortable with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154929	Thank you. And even if it's Friday afternoon, we still don't have to talk directly to each other, even though we might be a little tired. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408154937	What we wanted to tell the Danes was that if they go out and buy products in Danish stores, they can be sure that the products do not contain dangerous chemistry. Then it is also a process. Just a few years ago, it was impossible to impose a ban on phthalates because they existed in very many products. Now a process has been set in motion so that companies are phasing them out so that a ban may be introduced in a few years' time. That is what we achieve when we take these initiatives. We are very open to having a report in committee on gradual phasing-in in order to send out a clear signal saying: to this and not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155015-2	The process is driven most efficiently and fastest and in a way, so that consumers have a wide range of products if it happens at EU level, because if Denmark alone does so, it will just mean that there are a lot of products that cannot be sold in Denmark, especially in the area of cosmetics. This will mean that people will have to buy them online, and that will mean that we will not change things. What we want to do is get them out of the products, get them out and out of the way, and that requires the market that the European Union is, which is 500 million people who can say no to something, instead of 5 million people in Denmark who just cannot get some products. So let us get the chemicals out, that is what the EU is much more effective at doing than if we do it alone in Denmark. Then I would just like to comment on the fact that the environmental authorities are getting a lot to do. Yes, it is not just because companies want to complain, it is because they want to be in a permanent conflict with the European Commission instead of being inside and using their powers to push the Commission into making these bans. I just don't think that's the right way to use your powers and your money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155113	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155129	In general, as I have also said, we are very pleased that Enhedslisten's proposal falls well into line with SF's own policy. Some of the things we have proposed ourselves in the past, so we would like to support them. B 41 is, however, the resolution that we are least enthusiastic about for some of the reasons that have been mentioned earlier, namely that Internet commerce has become so easy and convenient, and that unfortunately we believe that if a large part of the Danes suddenly cannot get the makeup they usually use, the skin care products they usually use, longer, they will order them over the net. I do not wish to reject it completely, but I would like to discuss a way in which we can put the pressure that is so important to some of the other rapporteurs who are also very concerned about this, namely by saying: should there then be a phase-in period? Should we say that in so and so many years we expect alternatives to be found in all areas, because we do not want to live with the fact that there are endocrine disruptors in something that we go and put in the face and on the body every day? But it is not in any way that we do not agree with the intention; it is just whether it is the most effective way of achieving the objective that we agree on. Let us continue to talk about this in committee and see if we can do something about it overall. We are very positive about this in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. When Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party, is not present, we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155336	As we are now at the end of the five motions for resolutions tabled by Enhedslisten in our chemical package, I would also like to thank you for a good debate and for a willingness, at least from a number of parties, to do something about endocrine disruptors. There is an unacceptable exposure of the Danish population, and we are responsible for doing something about that. This specific resolution deals with the ban on endocrine disruptors in cosmetics, and that is because there are endocrine disruptors in the cosmetic products we surround ourselves with at least in some of them. It's about products like shampoo, toothpaste, soap and creams. The Rigshospitalet clinic for growth and reproduction suspects hormone disruptors such as those found in these products to be the cause of, among other things. low sperm quality, large increase in testicular cancer, at 9%. of the Danish own children are born with what is called kryptorkism, and the falling fertility that is reflected in the fact that more and more couples need help to have children. This is a development that we need to take seriously, also because these substances can be harmful even in very small doses. This means that although the individual substance itself is not necessarily dangerous, it is the combination of substances that may prove to have a harmful effect. That's what's called the cocktail effect. It is widely recognised that there are cocktail effects, just as it is widely acknowledged that we do not have control of how it works. There I would just like to say to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who said in his rapporteur's speech that the authorities probably do not withhold information, that they do not, and they are certainly doing it as well as they can at all. They just lack the tools, they lack the tools, and right now they cannot go in and recommend a ban because they have to follow certain rules and guidelines that are about looking at the individual substance. It is very difficult for them to lift a burden of proof in terms of cocktail effects, because right now we do not know how it works. This is where it will be a political question: how much risk will we run in relation to the influence of the people? This is a political issue, because we cannot lift any final scientific evidence at this stage. It may be many, many years before we can. That is why we also have to deal with this as a political question: do we think it is an acceptable risk to the people we are currently exposing to or do we not think it is? One cannot sit back and sit down on scientific studies and say that is enough, because science does not have those tools yet, and that is exactly what we have to take seriously when we have this discussion. The substances we are dealing with now are also the ones that do not set limit values, and therefore the citizen does not have the necessary protection, as it is today. We have mentioned all the substances by their names in the motion for a resolution, and it is also an illustration of how incredibly difficult it is for the individual citizen to have to study product declarations. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned that it was written in very small letters, and that may of course be a problem, but it is very, very long and very, very complicated drug names that can be virtually impossible for the individual citizen to find around. That is also why we in the Enhedslist believe that we have a political responsibility to deal with this. We will try to land a report in committee, also on the basis of the extended hand of some parties which at least require the government to embark on a fight in the European Union to do something concrete about these drugs. Then I hope that we can also look at doing something national, because we have seen in the past that this is actually something that works. This also helps to put pressure on the European Union. So, with those comments, I would like to thank you for this afternoon's debate. Thank you to the Minister and thank all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155809	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Reumert Gjerding. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160408155826	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 12 April 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
