ParlaMint-DK_20160531182522	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182524	The matter entered on item 1 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182604	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182611	I can be very brief. Unfortunately, my first comment must be that we do need to express our criticism of the fact that we are in this situation where we have to deal with this proposal as a matter of urgency. It is clear that there are some external factors that mean that we have been under pressure, and that is understandable, but that we only get the documents as late as we have done and have as little time as we have, is, of course, quite dubious. Having said that, we are of course going constructively into the work. We also support, as a starting point, the intentions behind the proposal. The part dealing specifically with the right to vacation for educational and cash benefits recipients who are converted into integration benefits is quite unproblematic and, of course, we would like to help solve the problems that are there. In relation to the two-year deadline, we have a number of questions to answer in committee and, of course, before we have an answer to them, we cannot give definitive commitments. However, as I have said, we are in principle in favour, because we think that the criterion of integration is a reasonable criterion, as long as it provides an incentive to seek family reunification if you want it as early as possible in a child's life as possible, and we think that is a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182737	There is a brief comment from Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182740	If this bill is implemented, it will mean that there will be integration potential assessments of children aged 6 years. Do the Socialists really think that's fair? When that legislation is introduced, it also means that there are children of 6 years of age who may end up in a situation where Danish authorities turn their thumbs down and say: No, you are not integratable. Do the Socialists support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182811	I think that Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen should look at this in a slightly different way. This isn't about punishing someone or keeping someone out, but it's about giving an incentive to seek family reunification as early as possible. For example, we imagine. a Somali man or woman who has a spouse in his country of origin and a child in his country of origin and who would like to apply for family reunification, it is clearly better that this happens as early as possible and not as late as possible. It is therefore clearly better that this happens to the child at 6 years of age or even younger than at 14 years of age. Therefore, it is clear that there is an incentive, because it is easier to be declared integral, the younger you are, in fact, a good thing. Then I recognise that there are, of course, some questions that arise as to where the specific limit lies. It has always been six years, but there has just been an opportunity to have an exception compared to these two years, and these are some of the things we need to have asked about in committee, and the minister has to answer why you are setting the limit exactly where you put it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531182918	This does not alter the fact that children aged 6 and 7 today are not subject to an integration assessment. They can be brought together with their mother or father here in Denmark if the parents otherwise meet the requirements. This law will mean that six-year-old and seven-year-old children will have to be subjected to an integration potential assessment with the risk of having a refusal, as it now means. Firstly, do the Socialists really support integration potential assessments of six-year-old and seven-year-old children? Secondly, can I understand the Socialists' announcement on the platform that one might be interested in raising the age limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183003	I really think I made it quite clear when I spoke for the first time, namely that we do not see this as something that needs to be put in place to keep someone out or to punish someone. On the contrary, we see it as a tool to ensure that family reunification is sought as early as possible. It is also clear that there are a number of questions that arise when you change the rules, because we ourselves were involved by a broad majority in the Parliament, and I am just beginning to believe that the author's party was also involved, probably with some slightly different motives, but nevertheless. It is clear that, now that we are changing them, because we are forced to do so by the ruling of the European Court of Justice, we need to have both a legal assessment and a political assessment by the Minister, so that we can see if it is right that it is exactly where it is. As a starting point, we are positive in relation to the principle behind the change that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183054	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183056	Thank you to the rapporteur. In my optics, it's a mix-up made in this bill. I do not agree with the way the Minister has made the bill. It is now necessary to see whether children as young as six years of age are integrable. What I really want to ask is the second question about the holiday allowance. Does the Socialists agree that it might be appropriate to divide up the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183134	That was a nice short answer. I hope we can agree on this and get a majority for it in committee, so I am really, really glad about it. Having said that, I would like to ask whether the Social Democratic Party really thinks it appropriate to see in the future, by means of this law, whether children as young as six years of age are integrable, as the Danish language so well states.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183202	Now I sense a certain polemic undertone at Josephine Fock. I guess you don't usually have that in that party. But the way it was expressed was hardly meant to be understood literally. Let me try to repeat what I said before. We think it is important that there is such a criterion. That is why we also helped to make the legislation that was introduced by a broad majority in the Folketing some years ago. Why? Because it is much, much better to make sure that children who are to be brought together to Denmark come to Denmark as early as possible. That is why it is good that there are some incentives. Therefore, it is good to say that if a child is younger, if a child has other forms of attachment, language skills, etc., it must of course count positively on family reunification cases. I also think it is important to emphasise what kind of family reunification cases are involved. It could, for example, be done. be a family with a father living in Denmark and a mother living in Somalia. There may be no direct connection to each place. Then there are some criteria to determine whether it is reasonable to have family reunification or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183311	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183313	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned in the introduction, and I agree with the rapporteur that it is scandalous to implement urgent legislation in this way over two days. However, the rapporteur's party has voted to ensure that it can be carried out at this rate, i.e. in two days. The previous rapporteur said that these are actually two completely different elements that need to be rushed through. Will the rapporteur explain whether the rapporteur and his party consider it urgent that it should be implemented in two days?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183351	I do not think it is fair that it should be implemented in two days. I would have liked to have had much longer. Now we are in the situation we are in and the alternative, which is, of course, to postpone it considerably longer, is hardly a viable path. That is why we have chosen to support it, even though we are also criticising it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183412	Will the rapporteur explain why it is so urgent to implement this legislation on child integration assessment as much as six years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183426	There are two elements to this. One is about holiday money. It is simply that the people this is about should be able to get that holiday money. The second part is about family reunification. There has been an unintended situation in Danish legislation. After all, we supported the original legislation. Then there was a ruling by the European Court of Justice. Of course, we must respond to this as soon as possible so that we can correct our legislation so that it is in line with what we believe. I think that is quite reasonable. That we only have two days, I'd have liked to see it be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183500	Thank you, sir. Dan Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. We are going to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183511	Thank you. I can already tell you that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. The proposed amendment means that, in future, it will not be decisive for the assessment of integration whether the application for family reunification has been submitted more or less than 2 years after the parent in question fulfils the conditions for family reunification. In cases of family reunification with children where the child and the other parent live in the home country and the child are over 6 years old, the starting point will always be that the residence permit is conditional on the child having or having the opportunity to obtain such a link with Denmark that there is considered to be a basis for successful integration in this country, and that requirement will then apply regardless of when the application for family reunification has been made. That means tightening up the existing rules, and we think that this is a very reasonable tightening up. It is quite reasonable and then it is also an attempt to close a gap which the European Court of Justice has struck in the Danish rules on foreigners. I think it is quite good to act quickly on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. So we support that part. The second part of the bill contains a change in the law which states that as from 1 July a number of foreigners have also been granted a residence permit under the Government of Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt. The proposal then proposes that there should be a transitional provision which allows the persons concerned to take up the paid holiday for 12 months in the future. It's not something that's grown in our garden, but we say yes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183635	Martin Henriksen, would you wait a minute? That's how we have a red phone up here that's ringing. It does not normally do so during the sitting, so I would like to ask that we take a break of 1⁄2 minutes. It could be fire, it could be other things. We just want to clarify what it is before we continue. It would be a pity to destroy the rapporteur's speech. Martin Henriksen (DF): It was actually finished, so the phone call was fine. There's been a fire alarm. Of course, we have to respond to that, but our people are telling us that we can continue the meeting, because it was certainly not right here. But they're gonna have to tell us what's going on. I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to make several comments, because it is a little disturbing to have such a telephone ringing and a fire truck in the background.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183746	I don't think I'm burning up anymore. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183756	Then I shall see if there are any brief comments to Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen. It's from Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183801	Thank you. Does the rapporteur agree that to the part relating to family reunification with children there is absolutely no argument that it should be dealt with urgently? In other words, we could wait until after the summer break to bring Danish legislation into line with this EU judgment if, moreover, it is felt that EU judgments and so on should be observed. There is no such urgent matter. We could wait until after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183837	I do not agree with that. I think it is important that, when Danish immigration policy is broken, we try to patch that gap as quickly as possible. It will also be the case that once a judgment has been delivered, one will also see that the way in which the rules are administered will start to conform to the judgment. There, I think, it is appropriate that we then go after what is adopted in the Folketing, instead of going after what comes from the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183859	But can the rapporteur refer to somewhere where the EU says that Danish law and practice must be changed now, not after the summer break, so that a consultation process could be achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183914	It is usually the case that when there is a judgment, you apply it. And if I know changing governments correctly, they will be quick to correct when there is a ruling from the European Court of Justice. We therefore prefer to see clarity in this area from the Danish People's Party. Clarity will then be through the legislation that the majority hopefully adopts, so that it is not the European Court of Justice that will ultimately decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183938	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531183948	Thank you very much. There is no reason to hide the fact that this bill is a solid tightening up of the rules in the area of family reunification. The proposal ensures that all children over 6 years of age in the future must be assessed as a starting point if one of the parents lives in the home country. This applies in the future regardless of when the application for family reunification is submitted. The bill has been tabled by the government after the Genc ruling was handed down by the European Court of Justice, as it has opened up a gap in the Danish rules. That hole will not be ignored by the Left and we believe that the hole must be closed as soon as possible. That is why urgent procedure is also needed. We are not interested in the fact that it must be easier to be brought together in the family of Denmark if it is not fair, and especially if we do not meet the requirement of successful integration. The Left is on the goal of a responsible and rigorous immigration policy and integration policy, including in the area of family reunification. We must be able to assess integration so that the people who come here have the best chance of being integrated. We will lose that opportunity as a result of the EU judgment if we do not carry out this tightening up. For the sake of good order, I should like to mention that, of course, the Left also supports the second main element of the draft law, which makes it possible to spend paid holidays when you move from cash or education to integration benefits. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they regret that they cannot be here tonight, but that, of course, they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184121	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184123	Can the rapporteur of the Left describe a six-year-old child who, in the view of the Left, cannot be integrated? Because that's gonna be the consequence of this law. Today there really is an age limit of 8 years before you risk being exposed to a so-called integration potential assessment. Now, too, 6- and 7-year-old children must be exposed to integration potential assessments. Could the Left not describe to me and to the public when a 6-year-old child is not integrated into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184157	I think that the rapporteur for the Socialist Group has given some excellent examples in the past. After all, it is not for us politicians to assess it, but let us say that there is a child who is largely associated with one of his parents, such as the United Kingdom. lives in Somalia, while the child has no connection with the other parent, and the parent has lived in Denmark for a very, very long time. Then, as I said, it is not us politicians who have to assess the individual case, but there may be cases where it is estimated that the child has much greater ties with the parent who lives in the home country. More complicated, it's not really complicated. After all, we are already carrying out these assessments today, as the rapporteur himself said, of children who are six years old and whose parents have been here for up to two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184246	In the judgment before us, paragraph 66 states that one is not only concerned about this two-year rule; one is also concerned about whether the Danish rules sufficiently ensure that the assessment of the potential for integration of a child on, for example, a child on a child's birthday is sufficient. 7 or 10 years shall be carried out on the basis of sufficiently precise objective and non-discriminatory criteria. Can the rapporteur point out how this bill does Danish legislation in any way in line with this concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184325	I would say that is just above my technical skills here on a stand-by basis, but the fact is that we are doing so here in the wake of an EU judgment, and we are doing so in order to comply with the EU rules, so that the family reunifications we have take place in a way that the refugee children who come up here do not run the risk of being removed from the one parent in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184355	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184359	I would like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that, in order to comply with this EU judgment, the government could have made other choices as well. The government could have chosen to drop the integration suitability assessment of children; the government could have chosen to set an age limit of e.g. 8 or 10 or 15 years, thereby meeting the requirements of the EU judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184425	Yes, we could have done a number of things, but we have done what we think is most appropriate in order to comply with the EU judgment. And there is also something about the protection of children. There is no one, and I do not think the rapporteur or the rapporteur's party have any interest in bringing together children in the family, where the child is torn away from a parent to whom it may be much more attached, and a homeland to which it may be much more attached, so as to come to Denmark to a parent it may not even know, and a country it does not even know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184456	I should just like to understand this: it is therefore the rapporteur's view that, in order to ensure the best interests of the child, it is necessary to carry out an integration assessment of children of up to six years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184512	There are a number of things. You do it, for example. because of the child's best interests and because Denmark should not become a magnet for family reunifications. But this is something you do to go in and assess where the child has an attachment, whether it is to the home country or to parents. So of course it is a broader picture where it is a mixture of the child's best interests, the parents, and what makes the most sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184532	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184535	Thank you. I took note of what I heard the Minister say this morning on the radio, namely that she is not really sure that this is not contrary to human rights. Is that something that worries the Left? Are you sure that we are not now putting in place another urgent legislation which we will then have sentenced at the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184600	With all due respect, I do not think that we would implement a bill if we thought it was contrary to human rights. Without having to put words into the Minister's mouth, I would say that I am quite sure that the Minister would not go out and say that. What we have said, also about other measures, is that we are willing to accept a certain process risk, because it is important for us to have responsible family reunification rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184621	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184623	I'm sorry if I got it wrong. It is quite true, as the Minister said, that she recognises that there may be a procedural risk in this. But the Left doesn't think that's a problem? In fact, it could be interpreted as speculating on tightening the law a little too much, because then there is a risk of a process. But then it goes on for at least a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184648	We are only implementing legislation which, in our best judgment, is within the international framework that exists. But we have also said that we are willing to go to the edge, and law is not always so black and white. That is why we are willing to accept a certain procedural risk because we have faced a refugee situation where we were about to end up as a refugee magnet. You only have to look at Sweden to see what happens if you do not pursue a responsible immigration policy. What we do, we think, is within the dial, but we are willing to implement such a consistent policy that we also accept a certain risk to the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184725	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. It does not challenge any more short remarks. Then I welcome Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen on behalf of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531184733	Thank you. Firstly, Enhedslisten proposes along with among others. The Radical Left, the Alternative and the SF, that the bill we are dealing with here urgently will be split into two. There are simply no factual arguments for two such different legislative amendments to be dealt with in the same legislative proposal. In addition, the one amendment to the law, namely the fact that beneficiaries of integration benefits, who have previously been on cash benefits, must be allowed to spend their holidays, is extremely simple. By the way, it is a proposal supported by the Enhedslisten. The second part of the draft law, namely the part about reducing children's opportunity to be brought together with their parents, is extremely complicated and certainly not a proposal supported by Enhedslisten. I think it is a bad thing that so various legislative changes are mixed together in a legislative proposal. The Enhedslisten supports an urgent examination of the part of the bill relating to the possibility of taking holidays for beneficiaries of integration benefits. It is an urgent task to ensure that they are given the opportunity to take a holiday if they have obtained the right to holiday under the Act on Activities. The Enhedslisten, on the other hand, strongly opposes urgent treatment of the part of the bill dealing with family reunification with children. This is a piece of deeply complicated legislation that concerns both human rights and EU rules. There is a need for a proper legislative process, in which, among other things, we need to do something about it. I would like to see a proper consultation process done, so that, for example, we can do something about it. The Department of Human Rights, the Council of Lawyers, Save the Children and other organisations dealing with this area can make their qualified assessment of the bill. It is therefore not just for fun or for appearances that we are conducting hearings before a legislative proposal is tabled. In fact, it is because civil society very often has very relevant considerations or objections or proposals that we politicians do well to listen to. It is precisely the involvement of civil society that is a fundamental principle of our people's rule, both because it is democratic, but also because it simply ensures better regulation. This kind of emergency treatment, in which I think inflation has actually begun in the area of foreigners, is disrespectful to our people's rule. Then there is the very content of the law. First, there is the part relating to the possibility for integration benefit recipients to take a holiday if they have earned that right under the Act on Active Activities. In other words, it seems that the government has been too busy tightening up the rules in the field of foreigners, and in this respect there is therefore a relationship that has been forgotten. It can then be said that it is at least a good thing in the midst of all the misery and poverty that the rules on integration benefit create, moreover, that this is being corrected. That part of the bill supports the Enhedslisten. The second part of the draft law, namely that relating to the possibility of family reunification for children, concerns me deeply and disagrees with it. In 2012, Enhedslisten helped to make an agreement with the Liberal Alliance and the then government on family reunification with children. We made a deal, which includes... This meant that in practice no assessments of a child's ability to integrate into Denmark should be made when a child is younger than 8 years of age. This was thus achieved by introducing a limit of six years. Children under the age of 6 are not assessed after the change of law. But since these two years are added, it really meant that today we are not evaluating children under the age of 8. Now we will also be assessing the integration of children aged 6 and 7. I fully recognise that the European Court of Justice, in its judgment of 12 April 2016, says that the 2-year rule has nothing to do with the possibility of successful integration and that it risks leading to unbiased discrimination. The government's conclusion is that a draft law is being implemented in a hurry, which tightens the rules for family reunification with children, so that all children over the age of 6 must be assessed as a starting point. Firstly, I cannot see any factual arguments for rushing this through without having a proper consultation process. If there is any paper or letter from the European Union in which they say that we cannot wait to change the law until after the summer break, I would very much like to see it. Secondly, the government chooses to respond to this judgment by concluding that all children, regardless of whether the application has been submitted within two years, are now subject to an integration assessment. This means that the law means that more children must be assessed for integration in relation to today. The Enhedslisten is vertically opposed to that. We think it is unreasonable to claim that a child of 6 years of age or, for that matter, 8 years or 14 years of age does not have the prospect of successful integration. I guess that's how the wording of the law is. Of course, a 6-year-old child can be integrated. In addition, we actually believe that it should be a fundamental principle that children should have the right to be with their parents. If you allow Mom or Dad to be in Denmark, you must also leave any children who are here. So for the part where we have to do it. Well, you're not. You could have reacted differently. One could, for example: have abolished it here with the integration potential assessment, or the age limit for integration potential assessments could have been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185324	Thank you to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen. There are no brief comments, so I should like to welcome Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185340	The Liberal Alliance is part of the three-quarters majority in the Folketing, which, together with the other bourgeois parties and the Socialists, has voted in favour of us being able to deal urgently with this proposal. It has two elements which we can see to be urgent. When I start talking about it, it is because we are generally very reluctant in the Liberal Alliance to contribute to exemptions so that there can be urgent proceedings here in the Folketing, because of course we are starting from the point of view that matters need to be dealt with thoroughly and properly. But sometimes it may be necessary, and so it is in these two cases. One is about people who have gone from education and cash assistance to integration benefit and who had already saved up the right to holiday on their previous benefits. You allow mercy to go for it, so to speak, and say that they can then be allowed to enjoy the already earned holiday. We think this is quite fair. Since this is something that is going to happen this year, it has to be said that it is urgent and therefore it has made sense to grant a derogation. The second is family reunification for children. There has been an EU judgment that means that you can no longer have this two-year exemption, which has been so far in the cases of family reunification with children, where the other parent is still living in the home country. In other words, the exception rule is removed and the general rule is maintained, namely that children under the age of 6 may automatically be taken to stay, but there must be this integration assessment of children from the age of 6 onwards. We welcome the fact that, for once, the government is reacting quickly to the things that come from the European Union, so that we do not have to be tormented with later cases of doubt, so that we can no longer do so in a proper way, such as this. is seen in the PESO negotiations, where there is only cause to criticise the government. Then a question has been raised as to whether to divide the bill into two. Since these are obviously two completely different elements, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the fact that we have to split the legislative proposal into two so that we can vote for one and against the other, if we wish to do so. We are always appealing to other parties to take account of us when you are in that situation and there is a diversity of content, which is why, of course, we will always stretch to the limit so that other parties are not put into the unpleasant situation, and that is why we support a division. I know that it is technically impossible to include it in the report, which I have been taught about, but I can tell you here that after the division we will be supporting both halves when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185647	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. I have a brief comment to make. I just wanted to tell you first that the insane microwave was found and neutralized so there was no actual fire out of it. It's just so you know what happened. At least there's no risk here. The first brief remark is from Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185713	Thank you. First of all, I think it is positive that the Liberal Alliance supports the division of the legislative proposal into two. I think there should be very good arguments if we are to rush through a legislative proposal because, among other things, it is necessary. means that civil society is not being heard. You do not manage to have the consultation process that you normally have, you do not manage to get all the initiatives from civil society that you normally have, and which I think it is very often very relevant to listen to. Is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance aware that there had to be something that meant that we could not wait to change the law until after the summer recess, so that we had a normal legislative process with the consultation deadlines, etc., which usually apply in order to ensure a proper quality of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185805	I therefore agree with Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen that there must be good reasons for urgent legislation. We, like the government, have considered this to be the case in this case, and we consider this to be the case in view of the fact that the EU judgment referred to earlier has fallen. We think it is appropriate to put the legal situation in place as soon as possible. If this had now been a very complicated piece of legislation, perhaps we would have been more reluctant, but it is only the exception that is actually being removed. That is why it is really more simple than it is presented immediately in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185845	I am surprised that the rapporteur says that it should be so terribly simple and that it is only about the 2-year rule. As I mentioned earlier, there are among others. in paragraph 66, a reference by the European Court of Justice to concern whether the assessment of this integration potential is carried out on the basis of sufficiently precise, objective and non-discriminatory criteria. If the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance thinks that this EU judgment is so simple and simple, can the rapporteur explain paragraph 66 of the judgment and whether this amendment is consistent with that premise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185928	We can at least ask the Minister to explain how this is going on and, if necessary, to explain whether it is possible to clarify something in this respect. What is essential is the question of the derogation. And you have to remember that there were also some rules left before 2012, before Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen and myself and others helped to change them last. So I really don't think you're getting on any other basis than you were.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531185955	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for his efforts. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531190012	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say at the outset that there are two things in this draft law that we find very regrettable. Firstly, and this has already been mentioned, we think it is highly questionable that we should once again have an urgent procedure. After all, there is a reason why we have the ordinary legislative process that we have, namely that it is important to have all the relevant parties consulted. There is an imminent risk that, when we deal with urgent matters, it will lead to unintended consequences in the legislation and, indeed, to lawlessness. Perhaps that is what we are talking about here, when we also have to deal with it about holidays. You might say that's been sloppy. Secondly, we find the confusion between the two proposals, which we have also referred to, in a draft law of criticism. There I very much hope that we can obtain a majority in committee to split up the bill. This is once again an example, which I think we have seen a great many of, of confusing proposals which have nothing to do with each other. The part dealing with errors in the legislation on extending the scope of the reception of integration benefits has nothing to do with the family reunification rules. In reality, I cannot imagine that there will be a great deal of debate on that part of the bill. At least we can back that up. So we would very much like to see a split of the proposal. As I said, I can support the part of the bill that is about correcting the error in Law No. 300, so that people who are put on an integration allowance can, of course, have the holiday to which they are entitled. On the other hand, what we cannot support is the part of the draft law which concerns the rules for family reunification. Of course, it is quite clear that we must respond to a ruling by the European Court of Justice. However, I do not see any reason why it should be dealt with urgently, nor do I see that the model chosen by the government and the minister is the right one. The Minister spoke on Danmarks Radio this morning, as I heard her and it is possible, it is a misquote, and then I regret that it may be at odds with human rights. Is that a misquote? The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing No, it was me). Sorry, it was the minister who made a mistake. I also think that is what I heard, and I was slightly surprised by it. Of course, I find it deeply regrettable that a minister for an area in question can say: what we are doing here may be at odds with human rights. The alternative does not seem to be the right way to go about taking another so-called 'process risk' - at least it was a quote from the rapporteur of the Left. I basically take the view that children should have the opportunity to live with their parents here in Denmark. That is why we also take the view that the most proper way to comply with the ruling of the European Court of Justice would be to abolish completely the assessment requirement for successful integration for children. That is why I have to propose that the bill be split up. In that case, the alternative can vote in favour of it on holiday rights. If it is not split up, we will vote against the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531190338	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments and therefore the next rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, is welcome up here if she wants to use her word. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531190358	Thank you. In the Radical Left, together with other parties, as was pointed out here, we have asked for this bill to be divided into two. It makes no sense for us to decide on the right to holiday for people who are now going on integration benefits, while at the same time, in the same draft law, we have to deal with tighter rules for family reunification with children as young as six years of age. It is therefore somewhat sloppy, especially when, at the same time, we have to deal urgently with a legislative proposal which, in this way, so seriously interferes with the opportunities for young children to be with their parents. In fact, we think this is reprehensible. I fully agree that the government has become accustomed to urgent legislation, but I believe that it is showing a constant disrespect for the people's regime and, above all, for all those people who could contribute to consultation and make us more aware of the consequences of this proposal. Civil society, organizations that know so much about this, are not being heard. And, most of all, this means that as legislators we should not be informed at the level that we should be able to legislate. It is a tendency that there is no need to discuss anything anymore, nor is it necessary for all of us to become wiser. Never mind the input of experts, never mind that the elected representatives, we have a real knowledge of what is being voted on. Apparently, there is a majority. What is this power arrogance? What kind of circus show are we forced to take part in? One thing is that the minister gives priority to scolding young boys on Nørrebro to hang out on the street corner without even wondering whether they are actually doing an education or job, but should we not take what is going on here in the house, at the home of our democracy, quite a bit more serious than that? In addition, we, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, are fundamentally opposed to children being assessed on whether they meet criteria of integration suitability. Children of 6 years of age have the right to be with their parents, even when their parents are in another country. They should have. The government could have reacted in many other ways to live up to the EU judgment. One could have set the limit by 8 years, one could of course also have completely dropped the integration suitability assessment, or one could have legislated in a process so that there was time to hear experts, civil society, the people about whom the legislation is about. We're really sorry it didn't. However, we are, of course, pleased that it appears that a majority is in place so that we can vote on the two different parts of the legislative proposal. We support, of course, the fact that people who now turn to integration benefits, but had actually earned vacation, can take their holidays. So we would like to vote in favour of this part, but not in favour of this part, which deals with the right of children to be with their parents and whether or not they are part of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531190746	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments, and that is why I should like to welcome Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531190802	Thank you, President. I am very pleased to be called up that way. Re-election to the President, I think. Oh. As our rapporteur, sir. Jacob Mark, who cannot be present, I should like to say the following on behalf of the SF: In the SF, we are sceptical about the government's proposal to abolish the 2-year period in cases of family reunification with children. The proposal will mean that, compared to today, more children over the age of 6, who are to be reunited with a resident parent, must be assessed for integration. At the same time, the bill extends the target group, since younger children from 6 to 8 years of age must now also be able to assess integration. We believe that children should continue to have special rights in the case of family reunification. Small children should not be assessed for integration until they may, according to estimates, be combined with their resident parent. We agree that there are already a number of exceptions to the rule of having to be assessed, but that does not change the fact that this proposal reduces children's chances of being reunited with a resident parent. We recognise that it can prevent good integration if a parent consciously waits to apply for family reunification until their children are almost adults and that it can subsequently give rise to more challenges in integrating the child well into Danish society. However, we do not believe that this should lead to a general abolition of the two-year period, which goes beyond all the other children who might have benefited from the rule. It is, of course, crucial that we adapt Danish legislation in the light of the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Genc case, but we believe that there should be other ways of adapting the legislation, which does not, at a general level, undermine the rights of children. We will therefore ask a number of questions in committee. With regard to the second part of the draft law, which concerns transitional rules for people who are transferred to integration benefits, we are positive in ensuring that the current recipients of educational and cash benefits can take their paid holidays even if they are later granted integration benefits. In this context, we would suggest that the bill be split up and here we agree with a number of other parties so that it will be possible to vote separately on the two parts of the bill. In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is unfortunate that the government may want to deal with a legislative proposal as a matter of urgency once again. This means that we will have a very squeezed committee procedure and that a proper consultation process will not have been carried out prior to the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191037	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191049	I would like to thank you for the speeches that have been made so far. There is a need for us to close as soon as possible the gap in the law on foreigners that has arisen after the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Genc case has been handed down. The draft law makes it possible to call again for successful integration in matters of family reunification with children, and it is absolutely necessary to make demands such as these. At the same time, the draft law corrects the fact that no decision was taken on the right to earn holiday for those who are soon to pass from, for example. In the spring, we expanded the circle of beneficiaries of the integration benefit. With the bill, we will have the opportunity to correct the two elements. The draft law will therefore enable us to call again for successful integration in matters of family reunification with children. Pending the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Genc case, it has been the case that family reunification with a child, if the child and the other parent live abroad and the child are more than 6 years old, is based on the fact that there is a basis for successful integration in Denmark. However, the requirement is inter alia: have not been submitted if the application was submitted within 2 years of the parent's meeting the conditions for family reunification with the child. The European Court of Justice has recently handed down a judgment in the so-called Genc case, which specifically referred to the two-year requirement. The judgment concludes that because the claim is made only for applications submitted after the two-year period, the proportionality requirement is not met and the claim cannot therefore be justified. The EU judgment means that the basic rule of successful integration cannot be applied, and we cannot therefore, without a change of law, demand successful integration. The government believes it is important that we can demand successful integration in these matters. The legislative proposal is about abolishing the two-year deadline while maintaining the demand for successful integration. This will bring the rule into line with Denmark's obligations. The draft law means that all children over 6 years of age in the future must be assessed as a starting point if a parent lives in the home country. This applies regardless of when the application for family reunification is made. The two-year deadline has meant that in practice only children who are at least eight years of age have been assessed for integration. The abolition of the two-year period also means that children from 6 to 8 years of age must also be assessed for integration. The second element of the draft law is that we did not take into account the transitional problem involved when we adopted the bill in March, which extends the scope of the benefits of integration. The bill will take effect from 1 July, so obviously it is urgent to find a solution to this particular problem. The fact is that recipients of cash benefits earn the right to vacation, so that during the holiday they receive cash benefits or educational assistance. This does not apply to beneficiaries of integration benefits. In other words, people on integration benefit do not earn entitlement to holiday and thus integration benefit during holidays. With the bill, we ensure that those who have earned a holiday in the cash benefits system will also have the right to hold it even if they are transferred to a new benefit. We must remember that this is a transitional provision here. The bill must be dealt with as soon as possible. This is because the gap in the law on foreigners, which has arisen since the EU judgment, must be closed as soon as possible. In this way, we will ensure that the integration requirement will apply to as many foreigners as possible. A majority in the Folketing has, of course, wanted an integration requirement to be made in these matters, and that is why we are now proposing that the legal situation be restored as far as possible. At the same time, we must manage the rights in the transition from cash aid to education aid and from education aid to integration benefit. As I said, the extension of the scope of the integration allowance will take effect as from 1 July, so it is obvious that the transitional rule is urgently needed. Against this background, the government has asked the Danish Parliament for urgent consideration of the draft law, and I am very pleased to note that there is a majority in favour of an urgent procedure here today. That is why the draft law is being consulted at the same time as it is tabled, and we propose that the law should enter into force quickly. In relation to the family reunification part, we propose that the rules should apply to applications submitted from the time of the legislative proposal. Finally, I would like to thank you for the support that has been given to the draft law here today, although, of course, I have also heard the criticisms that have been made. I am, of course, very much looking forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am also available to answer questions if there is consultation or otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191617	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, the first from Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191621	Thank you. As the Minister rightly says, the target group of children who are now subject to integration potential assessment will be expanded, because six- and seven-year-old children too now need to be assessed with the risk that this will mean for them to be told: No, we do not think you are integratable. You can't come and be with your mother or father here in Denmark. Today the limit is actually 8 years. What is the government's argument for expanding the target group? Because you could have just said: then we raise the age limit; that is, we set a limit of 8 years. What is the argument that 6- and 7-year-old children should also be exposed to this integration potential assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191713	Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen is quite right in saying that eight years could also have been said. Ten years could also have been said, and many other things could have been said. But we have chosen to use the six-year limit, and we have it because we want a real tightening up in this area, and we get that with this. I think that is quite clear, and there is absolutely no reason to hide it. But let me also say that it is of course important that it is both accurate, objective and, of course, non-discriminatory when making these assessments of the suitability for integration. That is why I do not think it is going on in the way that Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen says when Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen uses a language such as that one is exposed to and that one is in danger of being told that one is not fit for integration. It's not like that. It is objective; it is as precise as anything like that; and it is, of course, non-discriminatory. But here is a political disagreement, and I think we can stand by that as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191817	I am pleased that the Minister is precisely using the words precise, objective and non-discriminatory criteria. But it's actually exactly part of this EU judgment. So, the EU judgment is not just about the two-year limit. Concern is also expressed as to whether the assessment of the integration potential of a child of e.g. 7 or 10 years shall be carried out on the basis of precise, objective and non-discriminatory criteria. Can the Minister say with certainty that it will be in line with the judgment, i.e. also paragraph 66, when this amendment of the law is implemented, or is this another area where you run a procedural risk, as you call it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191907	Now I know that a written question has actually been asked precisely on paragraph 66. But, of course, it has been taken into account and, as I remember from the premise itself, it is not, in fact, that eyebrows or anything are raised. As I understand it, and as I remember it, it is a remark that it has to be precise and non-discriminatory and, of course, objective. Not by saying that it has not been so far, but it is simply a clarification that it must of course also be forward-looking. But now there is a written answer to the question that has been asked, and that will of course be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191949	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531191952	Thank you. Can the Minister say whether there are any examples of a European judgment that Denmark has had to correct and that has then been dealt with urgently in two days?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192010	I simply cannot answer that on a stand-by basis. There will certainly be examples of this. It may also be that there can be no such thing, but I can at least say that the government has found it absolutely necessary to implement this legislation urgently precisely in order to close the gap there is, and we have then taken the opportunity to make a further tightening up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192032	That's the emergency part I was asking about. I will, of course, ask that question in writing. Can the Minister then account for, assess, make it probable that this is the reason why you want to set the age limit at 6 years • how many children it is then between 6 and 8 years, which you estimate will be non-integrated and therefore is part of the tightening that the Minister himself puts forward as the purpose of the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192105	Now it is not actually the case that we know exactly who will seek family reunification in Denmark. That is why, of course, I cannot answer the question with an exact number. But what I can say is that we want this tightening up because we think it is quite reasonable. And yes, there is a political disagreement, and we may as well stand by that, and we can discuss it easily, and it is quite relevant to discuss it, but here the waters will probably just separate in the Folketing; I think we have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192132	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192135	Thank you for the floor. Where the waters part is, I find it extremely difficult to see that a 6-year-old child is not integral. What is it about a 6-year-old child who does not integrate if it comes to Denmark at 6 years of age? Could the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192154	I can say that the criteria used are, and must be, as broad as possible, and then an assessment must be carried out which is as objective and as precise as possible and which, of course, must not be discriminatory either. But some of the emphasis is on, for example. language, it is attachment and what the parents intend to bring together. You look at it widely when you assess whether a child is fit to integrate, and then there are certainly some six-year-olds who want to be, and some six-year-olds who don't want to be, but it's not up to me to judge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192233	It is quite clear that we there have a political disagreement, because I find it very difficult to imagine that a 6-year-old child is not integral if it comes to Denmark at the time it is 6 years old. Now I said from the platform that I had heard the Minister say in P1 this morning that this bill could be at odds with human rights. How is it that the Minister can put forward a proposal which the Minister himself believes is at odds with human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192304	This proposal is not at odds with human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192309	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160531192328	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, and I should like to thank everyone for their work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 1 June 2016, at 3 pm. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
