ParlaMint-DK_20160503101025	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101030	The matter entered as item 1 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101055	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101112	Thank you for that, President. Sun and solar energy will also play a greater role in the years to come than we might have thought just a few years ago, because developments are going really, really fast. It's nice when something gets cheaper. That is why I believe that we also agree in the energy conciliation circle that we must continue to ensure that solar energy is developed. It is also important for us to say that the objectives we have already set in the energy conciliation must, of course, be met. That is why we also expect the Social Democrats to achieve the objectives we have set for the expansion of solar cells. Today, however, when we support the draft law tabled by the Minister on the abolition of the so-called 60-40 scheme, this is due to the fact that, in the month we have just gone through, an entirely exorbitant number of applications have been received. Where, at the beginning of April, 2.6 MW of this scheme had been installed, applications for more than 4 000 MW were received only during April. In fact, there are now so many applications that it equals seven and a half times Krieger's Krieger, i.e. the large offshore wind farm, which will be set up in a few years' time. Just as it is important to stick to the agreements we have made and to stand firm to the objectives of energy conciliation, we, as politicians, of course also have an obligation to intervene if something develops fundamentally and completely differently than we had thought. For there will of course also be a bill with such a large expansion of solar energy as we have not foreseen and which we have not taken into account. Against this background, the Socialists support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101259	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101308	As the previous rapporteur mentioned, the draft law here is about repealing the so-called 60-40 scheme on aid to solar cells. This is because the scheme seems to be running out of control. In the near future, applications for approval of aid for solar installations totalling 4,500 MW have been received. This is a quite violent process, especially given that only 2.6 MW of installations have been approved so far, i.e. a two thousand doubling of the scheme in a very short time if all those who have applied for aid are granted. If the aid is granted, it is equivalent to the grant of PSO aid of approx. 1.4 billion kr. a year in the first year of the support period, and over the entire period of 10 years we will reach a total of 11 billion. kr. In other words, it is a huge bill that the Danes, Danish electricity consumers and Danish companies will pay if this scheme is allowed to continue. Another dimension of the consequences of allowing the scheme to continue is that it will be a quite considerable part of Denmark's area that will be patched up with solar cells. In various media today, I have seen the Minister quote that these solar cells will fill more than the entire area of Samsø. I can also figure out that my own municipality, Hvidovre, will be patched up with solar cells several times if these applications are allowed to be met. So you have to ask yourself whether that is what Denmark should look like: solar cells all over the place? I have to say that the answer from the Danish People's Party is no. We have been warning for a long time that the PSO support schemes are very expensive, and here we see another example of the fact that if you do not fence those schemes well and thoroughly, things can get out of hand, and that is what has been happening here. Therefore, it is probably no surprise that the Danish People's Party supports the bill here for the abolition of the so-called 60-40 scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101535	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101542	Thank you for that, President. The purpose of the bill here is to abolish the 60-40 subsidy scheme for solar installations and, as has already been mentioned from the platform, the reason why very suddenly a very large number of applications for commitments to this scheme have been received is a number well above the common objective we have in our conciliation circle. Therefore, of course, the Left supports that we take due care and immediately put an end to the current regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101632	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101636	We have here a fairly far-reaching proposal which completely cancels a system, and I am a little concerned that when you do so, there are some plants that we really would have liked to have been implemented that would then be cancelled. Then I think it is quite thought-provoking that when you look at these figures and see what is economically possible, you can see that there must have been a huge development in solar energy and the prices on solar cells. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the fact that we are about to adopt a legislative proposal which, as such, abolishes the development of renewable energy which is cheaper than Krieger's Krieger. I would like to know whether this is the kind of green realism that the Left prioritises in its governance and whether this is the way to prioritise when faced with a specific case, where it seems that it is possible to have a cheaper expansion of renewable energy by investing in solar cells than on Krieger's Krieger.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101745	That is a very good question from the rapporteur, and thank you for that. For the rapporteur is quite right in saying that this has some potential for solar cells in the future, and it is not the case that we should never again invest in solar energy. However, the reason why there is a need to shout at arms at the moment is that, under the current system, which has been running since 1999, we have an installed volume of 2.6 MW, then suddenly there is over approx. 14 days received applications for 4,000 MW. So this is a massive influx, which of course we will have to deal with, and that is also why I hope there is broad support for us now, first and foremost, to have a slowing down and then, in the energy conciliation circle, to be able to discuss what we are doing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101845	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101848	I can easily see that there are good arguments for slowing down. What I'm just very worried about is that you don't get started again after you've done this total braking, and that it's all the plants that are on the way to being approved that are being stopped with this scheme. I would very much like to see more use being made of roofing for solar panels, and I think it is a little strange that it is so much surprising for everyone. In other words, it is not long since we could see such a nice graph showing the expansion in the solar field, and one can clearly see that the number of field plants has been increasing over the past year. Does this surprise the rapporteur altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101929	No. After all, we have noticed the approach to the scheme that interest has been increasing, and we are, of course, delighted about that. However, I would be more concerned if the rapporteur had now foreseen this expansion and had not shouted in arms. Because there would then be no one other than the rapporteur who had foreseen this major expansion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503101952	We shall then thank the rapporteur and pass on the floor to Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102003	After all, this draft law envisages the complete abolition of this 60-40 scheme, which has not been economically attractive for a very long time, and in any case it has come as a surprise to some experts that there could be such an interest in putting up new solar installations. If you look at what the Danish Energy Agency has had in the past from forecasts, they had as far back as 2014 it was a long time ago a forecast that said 1 GW solar cells in 2035. Now energynet.dk then believes that 6 GW could be a scenario in 20 years. But here in 2016 we are faced with a reality where solar installations are set up, covering 0.8 GW, and if it were the case that this bill was not adopted today, then we would have the prospect of perhaps being able to round 5 GW in a very short time. I believe that this should give rise to a review of part of our energy policy and to a review of what is a realistic scenario and how to ensure the best expansion of renewable energy. In the Enhedslisten we support the fact that we get a larger share of solar cells into our energy supply. When we're gonna get to 100 percent. renewable energy, it is a plus to have a mix where it is not wind power that covers it all, but where there is a sensible mix with other energy sources and where solar energy should be much higher in priority. We should have a thorough discussion on whether the price development indicated by these applications should not lead to priority being given to solar cells in its energy planning. I think it would be very good to have a discussion in the energy conciliation circle, whether there is something that needs to be re-examined or whether something should be promoted because it looks reasonable. We have discussed these issues in the past, the last time, when we discussed another aid scheme for 20 MW solar panels. There we had some amendments on the part of the Enhedslisten, and we tried to promote that it could be a little smaller without it becoming small plants. But there the Minister chose the line that we should have an invitation to tender which was not restricted and in which there was thus no restriction that it might be installations that were set up on the ground compared to the fact that at that time it could have been chosen to give priority to the tender, that it was roofing areas and technical installations that would have to be set up on the solar panels. I think that would have been a much better solution than what we are now dealing with. And you've been able to see that this was coming. The largest facility in Denmark is at Asnæs. That's about. 60 MW and 80 ha. I think it is reasonable to ask whether this is the right use of agricultural land. Is this the right use of good agricultural land? I think it has been exciting to see that the Board of Technology has been looking at what it really is for some area wishes that are in Denmark, to what extent they want to come against each other and what it is that one should up- or down-priority. It is quite clear that the downgrading of agriculture was very apparent in the conclusions of the meetings and debates which were held in connection with the work of the Technology Council. I have to admit that it is not sacred for Enhedslisten that you could not have solar cells on agricultural land, because if you look at the energy efficiency of 1 ha of solar cells, then it is higher than 1 ha of cereals. And if you have an agricultural production where you then take the grain and put it in a pig and thus waste most of the energy to produce meat, then it goes completely wrong. So we are not totally rejecting the fact that we could have more solar cells out in the landscape, but we think it would be very good to have good planning. And it is not, of course, when it is just coincidences that exist and when it is they who come first with an application that is being promoted. That is why it would be nice to have a little more detail in a committee procedure, what is going on in society and what kind of participation is behind it. Because we would very much like to promote more popular involvement in our solar PV expansion, and we can do that if we are looking for municipalities, housing associations, solar-lows, to go together and try to set up a large plant at the local sports hall or rent a roof with the local farmer. That is the kind of expansion we would very much like to see promoted, and I think we should have a serious discussion on that in the energy conciliation circle. There are some conditions for the current solar low, which is too rigid, namely that you have to stay max. Two kilometers away. If you go to the countryside a little, I think it would be reasonable to accept a longer distance from your solar installations. We look forward to a thorough examination of the committee. We have a number of questions that we have sent in advance and we have also asked for technical assistance. I do not see why it should not be possible to table an amendment which would allow installations to continue to be placed on roofs under this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102509	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102514	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten whether Enhedslisten agrees with me that when you see such a violent development in precisely the scheme that we are discussing today, it indicates that it may be because the support is too high; that is that there are investors who can see a really good, with a modern expression, businesscase in that they can just build off solar cells and get the support that this scheme can provide. For me, it looks as if there has now been a really good economy in this area, and as if the price of new solar cells and their operation, compared with the amount of aid that you can get, will make a really big profit. That's why some investors want to build around here. Does the Enhedslisten agree with me that this is probably the case when you see such an explosive development, and that if you let the scheme continue, it is really establishing a direct hose from the pockets of electricity consumers down to the investors who want to build these solar cells?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102612	I think this is an interesting development, because with the solar aid schemes that are here, there is then a national aid which will currently amount to 48 cents per annum. kilowatt-hour with the low electricity prices we have. In other words, if we include the aid requested for these solar installations, then we have something that would be socially cheaper to set up rather than to implement the coastal mills, and it would be much cheaper to implement Krieger's Krieger. I think that this should be considered, i.e. if this does not give rise to the fact that we could actually make a faster transition to renewable energy, where we could take and put more solar cells into the total energy mix. What we need to achieve is that we get better use of the flow and that we get more solutions where we use our knowledge wisely. That's where we're missing these tax and subsidy analyses, which are collecting dust over in the Ministry or in the Ministry of Finance. I do not know exactly where they have ended up, but we miss them so that we can have the proper political debate on what kind of expansion we need to invest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102711	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102715	I would say that we may agree that if we can get the renewable energy expansion planned at Krieger's Krieger in another way, just cheaper, then that is probably what we should do. I think we can agree on that. However, what I really asked was whether the rapporteur agrees with me that when we see such an explosive development as we see in this case, it indicates that the aid is too high and that we could probably get the same expansion of solar cells just with lower subsidies, simply because with reduced aid we also reduce the profits that investors get while it can still run away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102747	Well, I would very much like to delve into the committee procedure whether this 60-40 scheme is a bit too lucrative. Maybe it is; maybe it's just a picture that this is a more secure capital placement than investing in shares and bonds that have an extremely low return and a high risk on the stock side at the moment. Then you look elsewhere, and when there is such a national aid scheme here, where there is, in fact, a subsidy for 20 years on some production plants which are reasonably well developed and without the great risk, then I think it is more a picture of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102820	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102831	Thank you. It seems to me calmly to note that this is a picture of subsidy Denmark running completely off the rails, and in the Liberal Alliance we should therefore regret the fact that it is once again necessary to repair the patchwork of subsidies and taxes which today constitute Danish energy policy. The draft law here raises a number of questions which we look forward to having answered during the day, but as a starting point we recognize the need to intervene now, even though the matter has suddenly come up here in the Folketing. An increase of 11 billion. kr. On the other hand, we cannot in any way participate in the far too high PSO collections, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102919	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503102928	The alternative is not in the conciliation circle, and we can see the problem that has suddenly come up here. It's a huge pile of applications that we see here, covering 4,500 MW. We feel that, in the alternative, we think that one of the most important things we are facing now is the climate crisis that we are talking about in many contexts. And one of the things we need in our energy system now is to expand with some of the technologies other than wind turbines. Wind turbines are the backbone of the renewable energy system we are building, but we also need, for example, that: solar cells and other renewable energy technologies come into play to a much greater extent. Having said that, however, we can also see the problem of the sudden emergence of such a huge mess as this one is, and that is why we have a proposal. I come up with an amendment which is about us trying to figure out if we can't knit this scheme a little more wisely together. What I think is important is that we get a lot of solar cells established on all the useful roof surfaces around Denmark. That is where the solar cells should primarily be installed in the years to come, and it may also be that we need some field installations around, but preferably not in the caliber and the magnitude that we see with these applications. So our amendment is about us proposing that section 47 (1). 7, in the law, must be changed to the installation of the plants on roof surfaces, and therefore no aid can be granted for installations which are set up on fields directly on the ground. If that amendment were to fall, we would be leaning towards voting against the proposal, although we can see that there is a problem. What I would have liked here was that we immediately got an indication that a new scheme will be knitted together as quickly as possible, which will ensure that we get a rapid solar expansion, because it is very problematic to stop completely without knowing what will happen to the solar cells in Denmark. So if we can have that talk in the committee work today, I will be very curious and constructive and see what it can end with when the day is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103219	Thank you. Then we have a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103223	Thank you. I think it sounds like a good amendment to go in and see if one can refrain from abolishing this system completely, but instead get some sense into the proposal and get it guided so that it is on roof surfaces that the solar cells come up. I think it would be very nice to have a committee hearing. I have been told orally that my request for technical assistance to have some amendments tabled so far will not be accepted, and in those amendments I could easily see that some exceptions, such as those outlined here by the Alternative's rapporteur, were made, in other words that roofing facilities could continue to be set up under this scheme. I think that would be a very good solution, and I hope that we will be able to identify this in this heated, rapid committee procedure, which will take place in the course of the afternoon. Before the second and third readings, all the questions we have sent in must be answered, so I look forward to a larger circle of parties supporting the use of roof surfaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103335	I am glad to hear that, and I hope that more people will consider going constructively into that talk. I also think that what is interesting is to get the scheme knitted together so that there is a better response to the development of the PV market, and I have asked a question about that. I hope we can talk about that too. It's an important angle in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103353	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103357	Yes, it is also an opportunity to place restrictions. But another possibility could be to have an annual ceiling on how many megawatts you will accept to accommodate under this scheme. Because then it'll be manageable, and then we'll have a handle to turn on. And when we reach December 3rd, the pot may be closed. This is what we experienced when there was a pool for the municipalities. It took 3 hours and then 20 MW had been torn away, and several municipalities were disappointed that they were not met.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103431	That is the advantage that pool schemes have, you might say, because then we know how much money we can spend. However, it also has a stop and go effect on those who act on the market and produce and install solar installations. I would like us to find a completely third solution which could provide a more solid market and a smooth, fixed establishment per year. years of new solar installations in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103456	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103504	We often have the discussion here in the Danish Parliament as to whether the green transition can pay for Denmark. I do not think that so many people are in any doubt that it can pay off economically, but we are also discussing how much it really is battling in relation to the climate and the world's climate, as it is an infinitely small part of the world's CO2 but the reason why we in the Radical Left are firmly convinced that it actually is the country in the world that has the greatest expertise in energy conversion, especially in a green direction, and therefore also a country with which incredibly many large countries in the world, emerging economies, want to cooperate. The reason we are an interesting partner is that we are not only good at technically converting to renewable energy, but that we are world champions in making it cheap and cost-effective. That is why we are in the unique situation that, after the energy settlement of 2012, we are now approaching something that can go to 80 per cent. renewable energy in our electricity and district heating by 2020. But that is not what makes us interesting; the interesting thing is that we do it while we have market prices that are far below the average in Europe including and when we look at developments, it goes one way: for every year that goes, it looks as if Danish electricity prices are becoming more competitive. The fact that we can combine the green transition with low electricity prices is what makes the Danish green transition something the rest of the world notices. That is why we also need to take action when the green transition suddenly changes character and becomes disproportionate. This particular case we are now dealing with is an example of the fact that technology development is indeed true, as several parties have said, that it is a happy situation going so fast that our support systems have difficulty keeping up, understood in the sense that they need to be adjusted and adapted until we get there, and I do not think there are many years left for the technologies to stand by. It is difficult, and it is, among other things, because whatever form of energy we had to choose today, whether it was wind, sun, coal or power, the current electricity prices would not be able to receive any investment in new production. That is why, it might be said, one has a market failure at the moment because the new investment in new production is not integrated into electricity prices. This is one of the things we hope to be able to look at in the forthcoming energy conciliation. The Radical Left supports this proposal because we believe that the green transition must be as cheap and efficient as possible. This is one of the things that makes the Danish green transition something very special in the world. I would like to ask the Minister two questions which I hope he can answer when he has the floor. One is: When we made this deal, the idea was that we should set up 60 MW more solar cells by 2020. If we adopt this proposal now, I would like to know whether the Minister is expecting us to reach the 60 MW agreed in the energy agreement. The second question is whether the Minister could not give a commitment to perhaps call the energy conciliation group for a more fundamental discussion of what we are doing about this area forward-looking. I am saying this because I understand that there are many different views on solar cells, where they should be and how many there should be, but I do not think that is realistic to get this under control in the course of the committee's proceedings today, when it has to be done quickly. It's also quite technically complicated. So perhaps I think it would be nice to be able to have a more thorough discussion on that issue and I would like to know if the Minister could give a commitment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103903	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103908	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I do not think I could quite hear from the rapporteur's speech whether it is in the Radical Left's opinion that it is timely to make an immediate slow-down today with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103927	Yes, I think I said quite loudly and clearly but I'm happy to say again that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103931	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503103938	Thank you. It is quite clear that we are currently engaged in a major transformation of Danish energy into more renewable energy. It is positive and it is good and it is important that it continues, both in relation to wind, but also in relation to sun. And it has to be said that solar energy has gradually turned out to be cheaper than the wind energy we have, and therefore there is also potential to expand further in the field of solar energy. That is why, of course, we must also be aware of this when things happen in this case, namely that there are applications which will almost mean that we will physically cover Samsø once and a half. And that is why we are faced with a very special challenge. We have sympathy for the Minister's bill and have two things to which we want answers in this debate. One is that the SF, like the Radical Left, believes that we must meet the commitments that lie in the energy conciliation, namely that we must deliver 60 MW solar cells by 2020. I expect that to happen, but if it does not happen and if there are applications before and they also have to be implemented, how will the Minister ensure that we achieve it? It is very important for the SF that we get firm guarantees for it. The second element is, of course, whether you can look at some of what I hear from the solar people, the Danish Solar Cell Association, namely whether it will be possible to approve the net settlement without subsidies, i.e. to make it easier than it is today. This means that you do not get PSP, but that you will actually have the opportunity to get a connection to the network. It is also a question which I would appreciate being answered. I have also put the questions in writing, but I think it is important for the further reading of the committee that there is no doubt that we will reach the 60 MW. It is crucial for SF that we reach both our climate targets, but also our energy ambitions in the solar field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104125	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104132	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we support this bill which repeals this 60-40 aid scheme, which has existed since 1999. And it does seem paradoxical when solar cells are a technology that develops rapidly, which has great potential and which has now also proved to be in fact more competitive than what has been assumed. Because in reality, this aid scheme was not considered particularly attractive, and yet a lot of applications have been made which are beating us down in this way. Many figures have been given: seven and a half times Krieger Flak, one and a half times Samsø's area, a two thousand doubling of the scheme. The figures are fairly clear, it must be said. 2.6 MW has been set up in the scheme, and applications now amount to 4,500 MW. I am a little surprised that there has not been any ceiling in the legislation we have today, but it must be because it has been considered so unrealistic that this situation would ever arise, and that is why we are in the situation we are facing today. But it is clear that if you accept this two thousand doubling of the system, it has some economic consequences: 1.4 billion. kr. in PES in the first year rising to 11 billion. kr. over the years. It depends, of course, on the evolution of the market price of electricity, that is clear. However, it goes without saying that we need to act in the situation we are in right now, and that is why we are also supporting the legislative proposal. We would also like to support the call to the Minister that we can meet as soon as possible in the energy conciliation circle to discuss how to ensure normalisation in this area, because it is clear that there are also lots of households and others who have sought within the framework intended for the scheme, which end up in a sluggish situation due to the draft law today. But in those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104337	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104345	Thank you for that, President. Let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law and also for the positive reception by the vast majority of parties in the Folketing. As has been shown, the purpose of the draft law is to abolish the 60-40 aid scheme for solar installations. An exorbitant number of applications for commitments for the 60-40 aid scheme has been received. On Friday evening April 29th there were applications for a total of approx. 4,500 MW. Applications of approx. 4,000 MW. By comparison, capacity equivalent to 2.6 MW was installed on the scheme at the beginning of April. Furthermore, in our policy agreement on the solar PV system from 2013, we have provided for an extension of the scheme to a total of 60 MW by 2020. Energinet.dk has processed the applications as they have been received. This means that the PRS tax potentially increases significantly for each day that can be committed under the scheme. I therefore hope for your goodwill and understanding that it is essential that this bill be adopted today. Indeed, this would lead to the termination of the 60-40 aid scheme in order to ensure that no aid is granted for the continued expansion of solar installations under the 60-40 aid scheme. I would also like to thank the parties for their support for dispensing with the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. I have given priority to urgent consideration of the legislative proposal so that we can quickly and effectively get ahead of developments in the cost of solar energy expansion that is developing too rapidly. We are therefore taking action against an aid scheme which has developed in an entirely unforeseen direction. In the future, I will look into whether and how we can prevent a similar situation from occurring. Then a few questions have been asked to me. I would like to assure Martin Lidegaard, Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mette Abildgaard that we will sit down and look at how we deal with this in the future. We are going to deal with the fact that, with the commitments that have been made, we are already above the framework set for 2020 compared to the 60 MW that was provided. With the number of applications promised on Friday afternoon, we are over 60 MW. It is not just applications but commitments that have been made, and it is clear, of course, that it is not certain that all commitments mean that a PV plant is being built. And if we do not reach the 60 MW, let us sit down and discuss it. Unfortunately, however, I believe that I must inform the Danish Parliament that the challenge will probably be different, namely that we will instead sit down and discuss how the extra cost that has come will be dealt with, because there are likely to be support commitments for more than 60 MW, and that will be dealt with. I would also like to say to the Danish Parliament that it has been my firm belief that it was absolutely essential to intervene and to take responsibility for dealing with the situation in which we have come. That is why I also decided on Friday afternoon to first examine the possibility of issuing a notice which could close the system. As this proved impossible, I chose to work to ensure that we can now carry out three treatments, so that the huge extra bill we could risk putting on societies and businesses and citizens is handled and so that it becomes as small as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104822	Thank you, Minister. I must point out that even if you are a minister, you still have to address the fellow members of the parliament with Mr. and Mrs. There was a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104836	I understand, however, that the Minister has proposed that action be taken. What I am concerned about is whether this intervention goes too far in relation to some of the types of plant which we would like to see promoted and which are not automatically on large land. And I hope that we can find a solution where they will continue to be set up so that we do not just note that 60 MW has been reached and then nothing more will happen. What we have been able to experience in the past with solar PV expansion is that if there is a certain market and if there is a certain amount of electrical installers that are in the process of installing installations, then there is a cheapening of it all. We risk having a total stop effect here, as we have seen in Denmark in the past, and I think it would be much more socially beneficial if we had a solar market that runs all the time and where solutions are constantly being developed. Then I also find it interesting that we have come there, that now we actually have a renewable energy extension that is cheaper than Krieger's Krieger. Is it an example of green realism that you want to continue with Krieger's Krieger and put an end to these solar systems?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503104950	Thank you, Madam President. I would say that it is absolutely crucial that things are linked. In relation to the question that has been raised, whether the scheme could now be adjusted in a different way.I can also see that Enhedslisten is considering an amendment.I just have to say that it will require state aid approval, and therefore it will not be possible to deal with it within this legislative proposal. And that could be a risk of delaying the process. Then it is quite right, as the questioner points out, that this could well be a cheaper solution than so much other renewable energy we are implementing. I am prepared to take a look at this too, not least when we are going to start turning energy policy together from 2020 to 2030. I expect that we will call for negotiations on this in the coming year and that there we will have a discussion on how to organise our support systems. But this has also given me the opportunity to consider whether it is not also necessary for us to have a ceiling in the various aid schemes so that we avoid a situation like this arising again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503105055	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503105058	Well, I think it is interesting to discuss these things, i.e. whether there should be a ceiling on the various aid schemes. Because you have, among other things. I can see that the social cost of biogas has also gone out there, and that, as far as I understand, has not yet been dealt with. I think it is interesting that we can have a discussion on what kind of renewable energy sources we should be aiming for most. And I think it is a good thing that the Minister is saying here that the Minister is prepared to look at those conditions, because there is therefore a potential here for solar cells which I think has been overlooked so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503105129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503105132	Thank you for the commitment to discuss how we can deal with a ceiling on the various aid schemes. Whether this is possible and how it can be handled, I would very, very much like to discuss it. When I have chosen to intervene here, it is because there is an extra bill of no less than 11 billion. kr. for the next 10 years, if we do not deal with this, and I would simply think it would be quite irresponsible if I had not done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503105156	We thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. As no one else has been asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00 with extended Question Time with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130020	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130029	Thank you. Sunday was the 1st of May, a day of struggle for working Denmark, a day of celebration for the many who rise every day, go to work and keep the wheels running. We should all appreciate them, whether they attended the meetings or not. That is why we must increase the gain by working rather than not working, and we must do that because the gain for many Danes is simply too small. That is one challenge. Another challenge is that they and we risk facing a future where our standard of living does not match our expectations. We're getting fewer people available. Employment is increasing. More people are at work. The Danes have more money in their hands. This is very positive, but growth remains low. GDP growth has been adjusted down, not only at home, but also at the IMF and today the European Commission. The price of oil has fallen. There's a refugee pressure. Although we are pursuing a strict immigration policy that works in the sense that Denmark is less severely affected than our neighbouring countries, there are still major challenges that increase the pressure on public funds. We must address that, otherwise we will not have the standard of living we want in the future. I fully understand that we are now nearing the end of the parliamentary year. The government has soon been a government for a year, so it won't be long before it's all the government's fault, and if it's not our fault, it's somebody else's fault: the guilt of the refugees, the guilt of globalisation, the guilt of the tax burden, the fault of market forces. Some people will be blamed, and I listen to everything and I am receptive to all the inputs, but I would also like to say quite quietly that I think it is a little important that we put aside polemics and parade proposals and spend time finding sustainable solutions. It can be done. We have proved this in the tripartite negotiations with the social partners. Here we find ways of new and better integration. Here we are in the process of finding new ways of internships. Here we are in the process of finding the solutions that previously drowned in spin and tactics. This is essentially the same starting point that we have when, after the summer break, we have to present a 2025 plan for Denmark. We want an overall plan for Denmark to help make work worthwhile; an overall plan for Denmark to create an opportunity to improve our common core welfare; an overall plan for Denmark to contribute to more growth and greater prosperity. I would like to urge everyone to join this debate constructively. The Danes deserve that. We owe it to the Danes. I can already hear some people saying that this plan will be absolutely crucial to the future of the government. And then that's it! But in reality it is much more serious. This plan will be crucial for Denmark's future. So is our foreign policy. Last Sunday I received the foreign policy statement that the government launched after the elections. It points, among other things, to: That is why the government will now launch a broad debate on where to put the emphasis, a debate which must also involve the business community, the organisations, the people and, of course, the Danish Parliament, which will hold a hearing here on 11 May. One of our priorities is the Kingdom Community. Last week I met Chairman Kim Kielsen and Layerman Aksel V. Johannese at the annual Kingdom meeting. It was held at the ruby mine at the Fishenæsset south of Nuuk. It was in every way a well-chosen framework · not only shined the sun, but the mine also brings hope for a strengthened Greenlandic mining and a strengthened Greenlandic economy. The Kingdom meeting confirmed to me that we have a strong kingdom community. We are good at working together and finding common solutions. We must be in the future too. We have to be in the Kingdom community, and we have to be in this house too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130420	Thank you. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister have both up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, where the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. In the second round of the largest party, the questioner and the Prime Minister have again up to 2 minutes' speaking time, but the two follow-up questions and answers can only last 1⁄2 minutes each. We start today with our North Atlantic friends. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130451	Thank you very much. I am particularly pleased that we have extended Question Time today because, like so many others, I have been looking forward to reading the foreign policy analysis published yesterday by Ambassador Taksøe-Jensen. After all, the Prime Minister is also a minister of the Kingdom Community, as he also mentioned a little bit, which is why it is also obvious to discuss the future foreign policy of the Kingdom Community here today. I would like to commend the government for the initiative with the explanation, and for the fact that the Prime Minister has thought Greenland and the Arctic so actively into the mission of the investigation and thus also suggests that the Arctic will have a central role in the future years' foreign policy for the kingdom. But when you look at the mandate, you can see that there is a lot of focus on Danish interests and foreign policy, but we must also note that Denmark is only Arctic power if Greenland is with more or less. Greenland takes up about 20%. of the Arctic, and therefore it is most important message from Inuit Ataqatigiit that Greenland must obviously have an active role in everything that concerns Greenland and the Arctic. It can be said that the legislative framework is in place in relation to the Ilulissat Declaration, but also the Self-Government Act, which obliges Denmark to involve Greenland in everything relating to foreign policy and security policy issues of importance to Greenland. One of the concrete recommendations, as there is, is an Arctic Security Policy Forum, and some of the challenges for autonomous nations are, of course, among others. to ensure that the Greenlandic people are heard, that the Arctic people are heard, but also that you have the opportunity to sit at the negotiating table. So I think it might be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's and the Minister for the Commonwealth's position on the involvement of the people of Greenland, but also the political system in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130650	Here you go. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130652	Thank you. I fully agree that the Kingdom of Denmark is an Arctic power because the Kingdom of Denmark includes Greenland. If that were not the case, we would not, as a kingdom, be a great Arctic power. After all, the foreign policy of the Kingdom is the foreign policy of the Kingdom, which is why we have also emphasized that there is a strong focus on this in the analysis we have commissioned, and I have also noted with satisfaction that Ambassador Peter Taksøe-Jensen has been in dialogue with Greenland in preparing this analysis. A standing invitation was given to both Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Greenland accepted it, and I think it has been positive. As far as the specific question of a security policy extension to the Arctic Council is concerned, it is one of the proposals that the government does not agree with the debtor that there is a need for. In this sense, we believe that the security policy dimension of Arctic cooperation is an intergovernmental gap between the real Arctic stakeholders and where what is being developed under the Arctic Council is an institutional framework that includes more and more people, South Korea, the European Union and others. So exactly on this point, the government does not intend to pursue the proposal contained in the report of the solver.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130828	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130831	Thank you very much. The basis for cooperation on foreign policy is, as I said, the law of self-government, and one of the things that is emphasised is to promote equality. Another thing that I also think is extremely important in cooperation on foreign policy is that it is constructive cooperation. As I said, I think there are a large number of these recommendations which are really interesting. One of them is that trade policy and foreign policy are being combined to a much greater extent than is currently being done, and I think that is very positive. There is one point I would like to make. on an Arctic investment fund • something for which I have also worked very much, and for which there is also broad political support in Greenland; something which is in fact also a declared goal for the Greenland Government, Naala Suisut. So even though responsibility for the business area is a reclaimed area for Greenland, I also think there is a common understanding that we also need to work together, because although we are the world's largest island, we have a very small population and we need to look at who we can enter into partnerships with. Does the Prime Minister agree with the need to establish an Arctic Investment Fund? We see that this is something to which the Greenlandic Parliament, the Greenlandic Government and the business community in Greenland and Denmark and, above all, the pension funds are in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130954	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503130957	First of all, may I say that I am pleased that this idea is being welcomed and that trade policy is being given the other foreign policy tools. I believe that there is great potential in that too, and that is one of the reasons why I have already signalled that we must pursue the idea of creating a foreign policy forum in the government, which can ensure that also trade ministries pursue the overall strategy that has been put in place and that we will have the greatest possible spread and impact of, for example, the European Union. our export efforts. I am completely open, as I was when I was Prime Minister last time, to have closer cooperation with both the Faroe Islands and Greenland in these contexts, if there is a wish. In fact, it is also the prayer of prayer to the next. For initiatives must be taken in Greenland, and I have not yet met with any desire to establish a joint Danish-Greenland business fund or anything else from Naalaksuisut. So it has to be based on the fact that Greenland is preparing its position. I have a great deal of attention to this and have also had the opportunity to discuss it with Kim Kielsen in recent days. Many of them are reminiscent of ours with a demography that is developing at a disadvantage and that sort of thing, and we would also like to support it, but it is of course with respect for the fact that areas have been taken home. There will then have to be a specific discussion about this, it simply has to be based on the official initiative of Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131133	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131134	Thank you very much. We can only agree on this, so the call for the Government of Greenland to take a greater initiative and to be a little more proactive in relation to this is being passed on. Another area on which the investigation is focused is defence. Today it is very limited how many Greenlanders are involved in the defence's task solution, which is why I really think that some of the recommendations that point to voluntary preparedness are very interesting, and it is also a matter for which Inuit Ataqatigiit has been fighting for many years and for which there is also political support in Greenland. Nor should there be any doubt that this is something that will benefit not only Greenlandic society, but also the Kingdom community, if it is to strengthen education and competence building in defence also in Greenland. The Greenlanders have a knowledge of the language, and they have a knowledge of the area, of nature and geography, so you can say that it makes very good sense to prepare a voluntary response. Another point that is being pointed out is to strengthen maritime safety, and it is also the establishment of satellite monitoring in relation to monitoring Greenland waters. Now I have fought for the Greenland MPs also to be able to take part in the relevant conciliation, and I think it is quite obvious that we have the opportunity to participate in, for example. The defense settlement. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131301	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131302	Well, the focus of the investigator's report in this area, I fully agree, and it will also be among the first things the government intends to follow up on. We are close to completing a bid for a future defense-anchored task solution in the Arctic. Historically, a work was set in motion.I think it was back in 2014 that has pulled out both because of the parliamentary elections in Denmark, but also because of elections in the Faroe Islands and not least in Greenland. But it is my expectation that this spring we will be able to follow up on it. I have taken note of both Peter Taksøe-Jensen's considerations in this respect and also what the questioner is asking about, and I have also had the opportunity to discuss it with President Kim Kielsen. I am not going to anticipate the conclusions yet, but there is no doubt that there is a need for a strengthened task solution and, just as we in Denmark have a good tradition of pulling voluntary forces over preparedness, I also believe, as a starting point, that this is an option that needs to be verified in relation to Greenland. We will return with a concrete proposal during the spring, i.e. before the Danish Parliament goes on summer vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131421	Thank you. Thank you to the questioner and Prime Minister. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131434	In Peter Taksøe-Jensen's analysis it is made clear that Denmark should focus much more on Danish national interests in the future. Neither the governments of Greenland nor the Faroe Islands nor the autonomous regimes are mentioned in a single word nor in the chapter on the Arctic itself. Does the Prime Minister agree with Peter Taksøe-Jensen that it should not be a core task for the Danish foreign service to also represent Greenlandic and Faroese interests externally? And who's suggesting the PM should do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131514	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131516	However, I do not agree with the premise of the question. For it is the case that foreign policy under the Constitution is, after all, a foreign policy on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark, which includes the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131532	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131534	Greenland has a direct right of negotiation in the field of foreign policy as far as matters are concerned. But when it comes to external policy, I can see that, according to Peter Taksøe-Jensen's investigation, Denmark is now about to act as an Arctic great power and show international leadership, including in the Arctic. Arctic Council is a natural common platform with all eight Arctic nations. The report mentions Arctic 5 with a single word. Otherwise, there is no mention of Arctic 5, which is Russia, the United States, Canada, Norway and Denmark and Greenland together. In the context of the Ilulissat Declaration and the Itilleq Declaration, it is also not mentioned how the role of the Greenlandic authorities will be in this context. How does the Prime Minister intend to strengthen the Kingdom when Greenland and the Greenlandic people are not included in the actual implementation according to the explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131632	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131634	I don't know if we're talking past each other here. Well, I think there are two dimensions to this discussion. One is about how the Kingdom should position itself internationally. That's what this investigation has focused on: how are we going to give priority to our foreign policy? What are the interests of the Kingdom of Denmark? Then there is another dimension that is about how we in the Kingdom of Denmark should make our decisions, fine our positions. And it goes without saying that we need close cooperation between the three parts of the Kingdom community. There we have historical agreements with each other on how prior involvement should take place if foreign policy measures are to be taken which particularly affect Greenland and/or the Faroe Islands. As has rightly been said, we have the possibility that Greenland and the Faroe Islands, on behalf of Denmark, will conclude international agreements where the international agreements focus specifically on Greenland and/or the Faroe Islands. Then there are the general foreign policy measures which, as it were, have the same effect on the whole of the Kingdom community. when we have recently decided to increase our contribution to the fight against ISIL. And I am very focused on the whole work of having a good dialogue between the three parts of the Kingdom community. We discussed it as recently as the Kingdom meeting, and our officials meet on 26 May, I think, for example. to look at this DFG scheme, i.e. Denmark, as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, to see if the model can be fine tuned, made more flexible, made more dynamic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131816	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131818	The strategic interests of the defence are very much in Peter Taksøe-Jensen's investigation. As we know, the Americans are present in Greenland, up in Thule Air Base, but in the investigation itself the Americans' presence in Greenland is not mentioned or treated. I'd like to know what the Prime Minister thinks about it. In relation to the sea surveying tasks in Greenland, it is so that the autonomy of Greenland and the Danish government has a joint cooperation agreement that over so many years then and so many years sea surveying must have taken place. But you will not live up to that agreement, since you have moved the jobs from here to Jutland, which has meant that most of the employees have resigned from their positions. When Denmark is about to be a major power in the Arctic region but cannot meet its obligations in terms of sea surveying, how will it be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131919	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503131921	May I first say quite generally what it says and does not say in that explanation. It says what it says, and I haven't done the investigation yet. After all, the purpose of the investigation is to provide a basis for a foreign policy discussion, in which I would also like to invite Mrs Aleqa Hammond to take part, and I did so in my opening remarks. What we need now is to get everyone in Parliament, the business community, organisations, NGOs and others to play ball against the plankwork Peter Taksøe-Jensen has set up, so to speak, and there of course we are responsive. Unfortunately, in relation to the specific issue of the production of charts, it is true that there is a loss of production in connection with the relocation of jobs. From the outset, the government has been fully open about this. We want to spread state jobs I know that this is also a discussion going on in Greenland with the aim of supporting regional growth. We have said from the outset that it may well have an impact in a transitional phase. We shall then organise this in such a way that we do not compromise safety at sea and it is also a subject I discussed with President Kim Kielsen this weekend. We are doing everything we can to meet the ambitions we have to increase seed card production to the best possible extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132049	Thank you, Prime Minister. And thank you to the questioner. The next question is Mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132103	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is an excellent move to focus on foreign policy with the Taksøe-Jensen report, and I must admit that I have not yet got to the bottom of my studies. But I note briefly that the Commonwealth is rarely mentioned and peace is with it, but another synonym for the three-level Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark is frequently found in all parts that include the Arctic superpower. The recommendations act among other things. on the need to strengthen the position of the three nations in the Arctic as a unified superpower, for one is far stronger as a single entity than one separately in the Arctic future. In other chapters, the report, for which the Prime Minister has commissioned and written terms of reference, deals only with Denmark's foreign policy interests, Denmark's values and Denmark's role in the world community. I am surprised that the report does not mention, in a word, the serious trade war a few years ago between the Faroe Islands, on the one hand, and the European Union and Denmark, on the other hand, on the rights of pelagic fisheries. My question to the Prime Minister today is whether, on the basis of the Taksøe-Jensen report, he intends to invite a trialogue on foreign policy matters with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, so that all three countries will have the opportunity to discuss foreign policy matters on their own merits and interests. I think it would be beneficial for all parties, because the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament should sooner rather than later acknowledge the fact that the Faroe Islands and Greenland do not always have the same foreign policy interests as Denmark. I need only mention the fact that both countries are outside the European Union while Denmark is a member of the European Union and that Taksøe-Jensen recommends that the European Union should continue to be the focal point of trade policy, which is an essential part of foreign policy. These obvious conflicting interests cannot just be buried as if they never existed... they are still lying away smoldering latently. The nations of the North Atlantic need all the foreign policy tools that exist to defend the core of our economy, which is access to fisheries resources and access to markets where we can sell our goods. Back to the question: Does the Prime Minister intend to invite a genuine trialogue on foreign policy challenges, priorities and scope?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132344	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132345	Thank you. Well, we have that kind of discussion all the time. That is precisely why we have just completed a two-day meeting in Greenland, where the lagman and the Faroese Home Ruler's President also attended, and where we discussed exactly those matters that include the whole Kingdom Community. In relation to the report here, I will repeat what I said to Mrs Aleqa Hammond, namely that it is only positive if there is a record. I shall be the first to regret that you, from the Faroese side, have only now arrived. Sir. After all, Magni Arge comes from a party, Tjóðveldi, which is part of a government coalition, which has apparently made the decision that one would not proactively enter into the work of this investigation, but better late than never. So I think it is good that Tjóðveldi's representative here in the Danish Parliament is now making some contributions. We will listen to them and take part in our further work on Peter Taksøe-Jensen's investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132452	Thank you. Sir. Magni Arge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132453	Now I shall not go so far into the debate whether Tjóðveldisflokkurin has said yes or no to anything. I understood that they had refused to be part of an Arctic sub-group. We have not been invited to discuss foreign policy in its entirety and what role the Faroe Islands and Greenland have in the overall foreign policy of the Kingdom, which, if I may say so, does not only include the Arctic. That includes our entire relationship with the outside world, among other things. when it comes to negotiations on fishing rights. It is also about trade policy measures, for example. on what our trade policy relations are when Denmark enters into free trade agreements with the United States with the EU, with Japan with the EU, with Canada with the EU. Where does it leave the Faroe Islands and Greenland in such a context?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132539	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132541	I am not saying this to be unkind or anything, but I am quite aware, and the questioner is also aware, that we do not have, it can be said, exactly the same basic understanding or acceptance of what our relations are like. That is also in the wording used in the first question, where it was said that it is now called the Kingdom of Denmark. This is not something we have just come up with, because I think it was also called when Tjóðveldisflokkurin was founded. The fact is that we have a kingdom that has been given a constitution that includes Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and within the legal framework we have a cooperation which is under development and which must ensure that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have the opportunity to independently position themselves where it can be done. That's one of them. Therefore, we are currently looking at whether this DFG scheme, i.e. Denmark, as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, can be made more flexible. That's why we have rich meetings, that's why we've invited both Greenland and the Faroe Islands to influence this investigation, and that's why we have this dialogue. And I would also like it to be forward-looking, both with Mr. Magni Arge and with other Faroese representatives. There is a hearing in the Political Affairs Committee on 11 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132707	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132708	I would just like to reiterate that part of the foreign policy regime, as it exists today, with some delegations to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, is based on the idea of a single state in Denmark, and then you cannot leave more than a certain amount of responsibility to the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the context of foreign policy. At the same time, however, the Faroe Islands have assumed all the financial responsibility for the Faroese Finance Act and the Faroese welfare. We're covering 87 per cent ourselves. of the Finance Act today, but we can only defend our welfare and our society's best interests if we are also able to act in the field of foreign policy. And we cannot be limited by discussions about the Constitution or about the unitary state, because the unitary state does not exist in the way you think it did 100 years ago. It's all changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132759	Thank you. The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132801	In this, however, the questioner has an argument for what is the point of view of the questioner, namely that the Faroe Islands should separate themselves from Denmark, and full respect for it. I do not agree with that. I have said many times and it will be a little repetitive if it is the only thing that our dialogue in Question Times should be about that if you make that decision in the Faroe Islands, I will respect it, but regret it. But until that decision has been taken, the situation is that we have a Kingdom community. I would like to report as the first to create the greatest possible flexibility within the framework of the Constitution in order to create space for both the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be able to dispose of in their own interests, it can be said, as far as possible. That's my attitude. That's why I'm attending rich meetings. That's why we've started a job to see if this and now I repeat myself DFG scheme, Denmark, as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, can be made more flexible in its operational use. That is why I said a moment ago that I was open to discussing closer trade cooperation as well, even though it is basically a matter of homeland. I would like to be very, very pragmatic, but I cannot shake that fact and personally do not want to see what is said about us being in a Kingdom community with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132919	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to the questioner. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503132932	Thank you. I think I'll share an experience with the Prime Minister here as an introduction, because now we've been through this exercise sometimes gradually. And it's usually the case that when I prepare for this, the Prime Minister has given an interview, or there's been a move from the government, or there's been a call for something that you can play ball up. There is a disagreement, there is something that needs to be clarified, there may be something on which we need to reach agreement. I was just able to see that before today there were no quotes, there was no interview, there was no play, we could discuss it because the Prime Minister is in a slightly more silent period. That's how I think you can put it. That is why I think I have to take a different approach and try to use this question time to do some kind of status, namely an assessment of how things are really going with Denmark since the change of government. After all, the Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed that the Prime Minister does not want to be Prime Minister at all costs. Four guiding stars have been set out to define whether the government is a success, and let us look at the four areas: 1) fewer people must be on public support; 2) more private jobs must be created; 3) the core welfare must be strengthened; and 4) there must be an immediate slowing down in the number of asylum seekers. After all, the status is that GDP is lower than when the government took over. Growth this year has almost halved and growth targets have been downgraded three times in a row. The government has chosen not to call for growth negotiations. Instead, money has been spent on a housing job scheme which, according to the tax minister, does not provide many jobs, and the same is true in relation to facilitating the inheritance tax. It appears that labour market reform has generated more children in poverty than it has created jobs. The re-prioritisation contribution is probably more negative than it provides welfare, and the increased influx of refugees means that billions are now missing in the treasury. So very briefly: can the Prime Minister confirm that our country's gross domestic product has fallen since the change of government and is the Prime Minister really satisfied with the status that can be done today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133140	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133142	No, I cannot confirm that gross domestic product has fallen. I can't confirm that. I can confirm that the forward-looking growth forecasts have been adjusted down, just as they unfortunately did every time in the time of Mrs Mette Frederiksens's government. Each time a new forecast was presented, growth was downgraded. I would like to say that the record that was set at that time is not a record that I have an ambition to maintain throughout this four-year parliamentary term. It is not, but it is the facts. I have to say that this very quickly is a step back from the yoke of responsibility after 10 months when you draw that picture. I just want to address one thing: the one with the re-priority contribution and the core welfare that is being starved. In other words, when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was a minister, the real funding for the municipalities fell by 3 billion in the region. kr. over the period. In 2016, the municipalities actually have 0.5 billion. kr. more available than they had in 2015. They have real growth. I shall not be able to say whether this is the first time in relation to the entire period of government, because I cannot memorize that. It may have been stone on the road, but if you see it during one of the previous reigns, there was a real reduction in the service framework of the municipalities. We've changed that. There is real growth in the municipalities this year. There is a grant for the hospital, which is 0.5 billion. kr. greater than the one proposed by the previous government. I can say with certainty that yes, there is pressure from the flow of refugees, but it is of course for nothing to count against what it would have been if the previous government had continued. This can be seen in the vote in this Chamber. In all the tightenings we have put in place in connection with integration benefits, family reunification rules and everything else, S and R have fought against. So you can try to think how they would have dealt with this refugee situation that occurred last autumn in a government of Thorning-Østergaard. You wouldn't have been able to act on it. We have acted and I shall not draw any paradise picture of it, because we are still under pressure and more must be done safely. But I can only truthfully say that while in our neighbouring countries there has been a growth in the number of asylum seekers of 100 or more percent, in Denmark it has been much more moderate. It is an expression of a new policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133409	Thank you. Then there are follow-up questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133411	You can choose to try to rewrite history, or you can relate to what it looks like today. Now it is the Prime Minister who has gone to the polls to ensure an immediate list. I know it hasn't happened. If we look at GDP, it is true that today the seasonalally adjusted GDP is lower for the fourth quarter of 2015, than it was for the second quarter of 2015, when the government took over power. And what we need is to see together that growth is not going very well. I am not trying to put a blame on what I am trying to do to get the Prime Minister there, that we start the necessary discussion on how to support it. And there we have said very clearly that the few resources available should be given careful priority. It is just fresh enough that a Prime Minister, who is alone in wanting to introduce a minus growth • there are no other prime minister candidates who are in favour of minus growth in the country's municipalities and who have introduced a re-priority contribution that means budgeting with minus growth, claims that it has no impact on our welfare societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133519	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133521	But it would suit all of us if we tried to stick to the truth as far as possible. I don't have a suggestion to have minus growth, I don't. I chose to stop spending, which indicates that there is no real growth, but that there is really the same thing in the public sector when it comes to correcting for wage and price increases. That's what I went to the polls for. Could I deliver it? No, I couldn't, because there wasn't a majority for that. That is why we are currently pursuing a policy of real growth in public expenditure. There is no negative growth in public expenditure. There is real growth in public expenditure. The health sector has been added to 2.4 billion this year. kr. That's 0.5 billion. kr. more than that, Mrs Mette Frederiksen went to the polls. The municipalities have a real growth of 0.5 billion this year. kr. This contrasts with the reduction under the previous government. Then there is no point in saying that I am pursuing a negative growth policy. I don't. Is it true, then, that we have thoughts of a change of priority contribution in order to ensure that we always have an opportunity to decide whether a tax crown spent on public consumption is being used in the right place? Yeah, that's right. Is it true that this has meant that the municipalities have less this year? No, that's not true. They have 0.5 billion. kr. more, just as we already have a political agreement with regard to 2017, which will mean that the re-priority contribution that the government wants in the municipal economic agreements, where negotiations have not yet started, will be returned to the municipalities. Thus, before we have even started the municipal economic negotiations, we can already see that there will be no so-called minus growth in the municipalities in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133657	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133658	I think that, for the sake of continued dialogue and continued cooperation, I would ask the Prime Minister to describe where I spoke untruely in what I said before, because that is not a fair way of discussing. The government is proposing a change of priority contribution. We can pretend it's just a re-priority contribution, but it's minus growth. It is to move money from the country's municipalities • potentially primary school, day care, care for the elderly, disability area • for other purposes. The fact that we are then some in the Folketing who have had the Left, quite forced, to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which ensures that the money is returned is not, of course, the achievement of the Left. I am aware that it was not the Left that proposed this proposal for adoption. I know it's other parties in the Folketing who have run that process. What I am asking the Prime Minister to deal with is a status, after a year has passed, when we have a low growth rate, when people have not been able to move from public support to active labour market life, where there has been no immediate slowing down in the area of asylum, and where, as far as I can see, the government is not going to give serious priority to our welfare, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133809	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133811	Where was miscounted? It was there when Mrs Mette Frederiksen said it was then after my memory, but I think it will last if you hit on the fact that I am the only prime minister candidate who is in favour of minus growth. Well, that's definitely incorrect. I'm not in favour of minus growth. I'm not going in for less growth. I am basically in favour of us having more growth in this society. I also agree that it is too low. That is also why we have taken a number of initiatives in the field of business policy. We did it in connection with the Finance Act, we relaxed NO x We are in the process of opening up the inheritance charges. We removed some of the taxes that the previous government had imposed and burdened us with, advertising fees and other things. We made targeted tax cuts for business at 4 billion. kr. We have created a housing job scheme to ensure that the craft trades also have something to tear in, also out there, where there is a little longer between houses. We have moved 4,000 state jobs to ensure that more life is coming throughout Denmark. Most of us have apparently had the support of the Social Democratic Party until we had to vote in this Chamber on the latter. As far as DIIS is concerned, the courage failed. Aarhus is not good enough; the intellectual capacity obviously does not allow you to have a research institute there. I just don't understand. We are doing a number of things, but if we are going to have a political discussion, we have to start from the fact that we have a real description of each other's intentions. And I have no intention of reducing growth in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133944	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503133947	Now it's actually starting to get really interesting, because if the government doesn't want negative growth, we can make an agreement now. The adoption text adopted here in the Danish Parliament that the so-called "reprioritised contribution' should be transferred back to the municipalities of the country only applies for 2017. If the government and the Prime Minister are not in favour of minus growth, it must mean that today the Prime Minister can promise that the money from the re-priority contribution that all the municipalities of the country and all the mayors of the country and many others call negative growth and not a re-priority contribution, also for the years 2018 and 2019 is returned to the municipalities crown for crown. Will the Prime Minister promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134030	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134031	Now I repeat myself: I am not in favour of negative growth in the public sector. Does this mean that I will be throwing cement over the public sector with the division of labour between municipalities, states and regions? No, I don't want to be a part of that. I want to pursue a responsible economic policy that allows us to have a limited real growth throughout the public sector, which we must then use with the utmost care. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. We have had to find the money needed to lift it up. That is why we are now adding 2 billion to the police. kr. extra. That's how we have to attack it. If we sit here in advance and decide that certain parts of the public sector will have to have certain given sizes for a long time to come, we will go wrong in the city. What we need is to pursue an economic policy that allows room for growth in welfare expenditure. If we look at it, we have taken on board a plan which, unfortunately, is not linked in the sense that the room for manoeuvre until 2020 is only 10 billion. kr. In my opinion, this is not enough to meet my ambitions, and I do not believe Mrs Mette Frederiks's ambitions either. So, if we are to be constructive, we must sit down and that is what we are inviting to do immediately after the summer holidays, and look at how we have taken forward-looking decisions that ensure that we have some room for manoeuvre to do what I really think everyone would like to do, namely to ensure that we have a police force that works, some hospitals where patients can operate when they are sick, some public schools that can teach children something, so that they have a proper basis for life. It's gonna take some decisions. And I am sorry that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is already beginning to exclude herself from that debate in one of the weekend's newspapers by saying in advance what cannot be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134220	Thank you. Then there are two follow-up questions, and I must point out that they must last 1⁄2 minutes each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134226	Of course, from the Social Democrats we say no to top tax concessions in a situation where it will not be socially fair or sound economic policy, as long as there are so few resources available. And much else we can negotiate in the autumn, and I hope we will do the same. But we have to stick to what the Prime Minister says, because when I talk about minus growth, I talk about it in municipal budgets. If the Prime Minister is today saying that the Prime Minister is not in favour of minus growth in the municipalities' economy, it is not difficult to answer whether the money, with the re-priority contribution taken from the municipalities and from the close welfare, is also returned in 2018 and 2019. The PM doesn't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134306	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134307	I answered that in a way because I said that I am not in favour of negative growth in the public sector. I am in favour of pursuing an economic policy that allows us to have limited real growth in the public sector. Where real growth is to be placed is based on a political discussion. I do not have a majority alone, so far from it, but it is also based on an ongoing position on where the money is most needed. It cannot be the case that we say in advance that because a particular sector has a certain budget, that is what has to be locked if the need is elsewhere. If it is the case that there is a need for equipment in the hospital sector, then that is where we need to arm ourselves; if there is a need for equipment in the primary school sector, that is where we need to arm ourselves; and if there is a need for equipment in the police force, that is where we need to arm ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134355	Then it's the last round, and it's only 1⁄2 minutes each. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134359	But that also means that what the Prime Minister is saying today is that there can easily be minus growth in municipal budgets in the coming years. After all, it is not just any sector that the Prime Minister makes it sound like. It's our care for the elderly. It's our disabled. It's our day care center. It's our primary school. I find it problematic that the Prime Minister should continue to say that we must then pursue the right economic policy, because the right economic policy is not being pursued. Growth is too low. Money is being burned for tax cuts that we could use for other purposes. I can only conclude that the Prime Minister has today confirmed that there may well be less growth in municipal budgets in the coming years, and I think this is the wrong priority when the financial framework is as limited as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134446	Thank you. The Prime Minister of the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134448	The right economic policy? In other words, the right economic policy is a policy that promotes growth as a prerequisite for prosperity as a prerequisite for welfare. That is why we have removed some of the taxes that were a burden on our business community, which were detrimental to job creation. That is why we have invested in the fact that small master craftsmen, who have a major task in solving the internship situation, are getting some activity. That is why we are liberalising the law of plans, and I hope that it will end with an agreement that also includes the social democracy, so that there can be some activity out there. That is why we have set in motion a trialogue which, after it was buried under the last government, has already shown its first results, and it will be the first of several results to support the fact that we have the really educated population in the future, because that is basically a prerequisite for growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134535	Thank you. Thank you to the questioner, thank you to the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134543	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for his Of course, he spoke quite rightly about the growth prospects, which are not quite as flashy as we would like, about the examination of foreign policy that has been done and so on. But the Prime Minister also had many things to mention, because it is some time since we have had such an hour of questioning here last time. One of the things that has happened since we last had a Question Time is that a tripartite agreement has been concluded, which the Prime Minister himself also touched on, here also most recently in her reply to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. This is the tripartite agreement that gives me the need to ask the Prime Minister a question of principle. Because when you look at the tripartite agreement, it is striking that it is going to turn refugees into immigrants from day one. It is clear from the tripartite agreement that, in fact, the period during which people's right to asylum is being examined must begin to clarify job opportunities. Where the asylum seeker should then be placed in the municipality, he must be on the basis of where he can get a job. You have to be able to get in with a lower salary than others. Businesses must receive a bonus if they hire you, and you have to earn a right from day one. I have to admit that when I read the tripartite agreement, there is no place I can find anything to stress the temporary nature of refugee policy. There is nothing about what competences people need at the time of their return home and hopefully help with, for example. to build their countries up where they come from. So what I need to ask the Prime Minister today is: has the Prime Minister completely abandoned the basic approach that there is a difference between refugee policy and immigration policy; that refugees are some who have to flee war and misery and who, for a temporary period, have to be helped until they return while immigrants are people you integrate? I think there is a need to clarify this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134806	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503134809	No, I certainly haven't left it. I have an ambition that Denmark should be open to people who can and will, but not to those who cannot and those who do not. I have an ambition that we should reduce the number of asylum seekers, that the money should go further in the neighbourhood, that it would ideally be best if there were no spontaneous refugees, to put it bluntly. So it does not shake the reality that there are refugees in Denmark, both those who were here when we took over the government and those who came here later because Europe broke down. Together we have taken a series of initiatives to try to limit it with any effect, but not with sufficient effect. That is why we are facing a challenge with people who are thus granted asylum under the conventions and therefore entitled to be here, albeit temporarily, until the situation is such that they can go home. There I am faced with the very practical challenge that, if we do not make sure that those people earn their own money, then we must earn it for them. It will be a burden on our budgets, it will be a burden on the Danes to an extent that will crowd out everything else. That is the task we have sought to solve together with the social partners. So are there any other assignments left? Yes, there is. I agree with it on a temporary basis, and I would also like to enter into closer discussions, including with the Danish People's Party and others. Some initiatives have already been taken and more can probably be taken so that we can have a repatriation sight with the people who are here. But whatever it is, and I think that is a theme we will return to in the next session, it does not shake the fact that we have some people who are in Denmark, and if the alternative is public support, it is better that they get to work and earn their own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135001	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135002	But it is precisely these final remarks that cause many Danes, I think, to experience that you capitulate, so that you like to accept the state of things and say that there is nothing to do. If you want to maintain a perspective that refugees coming to Denmark are being helped temporarily, why on earth should they earn the benefit right from day one, they get into a low-wage job where companies get a bonus to hire them? The whole basis of the tripartite agreement is to make people's stay permanent; people stay here forever. We send Danish soldiers to help create peaceful conditions so that you can live in Syria or return; there are quite a lot of people living in Syria in advance. But how are we to get the Syrians who come here to think in their minds about the situation when they return home, if everything we meet them with is integration in relation to permanentisation in the Danish labour market and in Denmark, by the way? The Prime Minister has said that even if it is a great success, you get half of it at work. So that it is a financial burden anyway, the Danish employment rate is approx. 70% Economically, however, it is a huge burden on Danish society. But what I want is to maintain the perspective that these people are here on a temporary basis and that they are actually returning home on the day the opportunity to return is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135126	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135128	But I do not disagree with the perspective, and now it is the case that if one's residence basis falls away, it will fall away, and so it does, whether one has some kind of benefit right or not, and that is something that we must stick to. For me, it is more an expression of the fact that there is not just the simple solution. I basically agree that we must bring down the number of people we have fought for. Immediately after the parliamentary elections, we took initiatives, which also proved effective, and we saw how the figures went down immediately after the introduction of integration benefits and a number of other tightenings. Then Europe broke open and everything came out of control. In this situation, the instruments we have put into use have made it less hard on Denmark than our neighbouring countries. Does that mean we're not challenged? No, it doesn't mean that. That is why we also need to discuss what more can be done in the future. At the moment there is the situation because of the Turkey That should not be an excuse for us not to move on. That is why I would like to state here that I consider it a natural thing in the next Assembly to follow up on the results of the tripartite agreement. The Tripartite Agreement has a very pragmatic starting point: when people are here, it is better that they support themselves. There is also a perspective that is about the fact that when peace settles, people have to go home, and I am happy to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135302	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135304	In other words, we have received an answer here in the Danish Parliament from the government that since New Year's, 279 asylum seekers have withdrawn their application. Well, that indicates that everything isn't black and white. Clearly, then, there are some people who consider that they can return to the countries from which they have come, even though they have acquired refugee status. And I guess it illustrates very well that this is also about whether you make sure that the people who have had the opportunity to come here by means of traffickers actually meet with a society that says: you get help if you are refugees, yes, but it is temporary, and you come back when it is possible, so that they are also mentally geared into it. When I read the trialogue agreement, and that is why I am addressing it today, I think it is so sad reading, because there is no place that is about how to secure the competences of these people in terms of their return home. All of this is about how they should have competences in relation to staying in Denmark and staying on the Danish labour market. That is why I believe that the tripartite agreement in the way it is put together will in fact be a capitulation in relation to the view that refugees have temporary status and have to return when the opportunity is there. That is why I would have liked the Prime Minister's attention to this, and I am glad that it seems to have been successful so that we can hopefully get back on track. I would like to do so before Parliament adopts the tripartite agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135422	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135424	I would like to say that if you are going to return to any other country from which you might escape, whether it is flight as an escape, because you are being persecuted, or that is, I had almost said the flight to America, the dream of a better life, I would say that the skills you are able to reap in Denmark will stand up for yourself. I'd say so. Therefore, there are two reasons why we think we would like to change the historical failure that has been where we have accepted that people have been walking around Denmark for years as refugees and have been at the mercy of society, with an employment rate of 30%. As a result. Change it! Because if we could just get it to the level that is among the non-western peoples of Denmark in general, we could release 2.5 billion. kr. And I could then hear discussion before that I and Mrs Mette Frederiksen could have a discussion about whether that money could not be needed somewhere. So it has the dual aim of starting from a reality and ensuring that people support themselves. But it is also intended that if people get greasy into social systems and live on public support, what kind of perspective is there for them to return at all afterwards? I am now repeating myself by saying that we are also focusing on repatriation agreements. We have extended the transitional period from one year to three years, and I do not regard that door as closed. This is a discussion to which we shall return.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135548	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135558	Thank you. My question is about retirement age. I don't think I'm the only one who got worried when we read the Extra magazine this morning. After all, the Finance Minister, and also the rapporteur for the Left, are opening the door to raising the retirement age once again. First, it was the post-earnings that were round-shaven. Then you raised your retirement age. Now we are again considering saying to the Danes: fewer years of retirement. After all, Denmark already has one of Europe's highest retirement ages and, according to economic wise men, also one of the most sustainable economies. Apparently that's not enough for the government. We know who this is going to suffer the most: the people who have a short education or no education have; the people who have hard physical work. It's the cashier. It's the bricklayer. It's the SOSU. It's the scaffolding worker. They are the ones who are at risk of going straight from the labour market to sick beds. By the way, they are already at risk with the rules we currently have. I find it very worrying that people with such hard physical work risk working until they reach their seventies. We must remember that we are talking about people who have worked very many years, worked hard and paid their taxes. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: can the Prime Minister confirm what the Ekstra Bladet is proposing today, namely that the government is considering setting up the retirement age again, or can we put this story in the grave?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135745	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135748	I haven't ruined my morning mood by reading the Ekstra Bladet. I will avoid that as far as possible. So I am not able to comment on the specific content of that article. I haven't read it. I have to admit that. About the question of retirement age etc. After all, the government has no plans other than to comply with what we have already agreed in the agreements that we ourselves have historically made, which means that we increase the retirement age at intervals. It's a chance every five years. And other current plans than that, of course, we do not have at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135825	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135827	I do not think that was a particularly reassuring answer because it was not an answer: we have no current plans at the moment, but yet we can hear both the Left Finance and the Left Finance Minister say that it may well be that we have to raise the retirement age again. I think this is a very, very central issue, and I think that many Danes are getting worried when they hear the Prime Minister's party say that it may well be that we have to raise the retirement age again. I think it would be fair for the Prime Minister to give a clear answer to this very relevant question for all people in Denmark: can we count on the rules for withdrawal today, or will the Left again raise the pensionable age? So instead of that for the moment no current plans No, it's a duck. The left is not going to raise the pensionable age. I think there are many Danes who really want answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135935	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503135937	One thing can certainly be said with certainty: the Left is not going to do anything alone because it does not extend our mandates. What we have said is that, after the summer break, we will put a plan forward for Denmark. It's not a plan that exists now. We'll put it forward after the summer vacation. Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen now said a little cocky that there was a sustainable economy, and I shall come after you. Well, the situation is that the room for manoeuvre by 2020 has been reduced to 10 billion. kr. Because of various factors: the fall in oil prices, the pressure on refugees, etc. Looking further ahead, we also face a series of challenges. That is why the responsible person is to throw a long light on the Danish economy and see what the perspective is. That is what we intend to do. In this context, it would be extremely unwise to stand and say a great deal in advance about what you want and what you do not want. What I can say is that when we have all been on summer vacation, the government will present a plan for the Danish economy in 2025 perspective. We will also present some suggestions as to what we think may have to be adjusted to ensure that there is room for manoeuvre so that we can maintain a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140100	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140101	I would like to say on the subject of the economy: excuse me, over the past many years billions of dollars have been spent on lowering taxes on such things as the Prime Minister and people like me, and right now a majority in the Folketing is planning to spend up to 90 billion. kr. On fighter planes. Well, politics is priority. There were other ways to give priority. It could also have failed to give priority to tax relief for billions of dollars. In addition, I would like to say about the retirement age: the Prime Minister can retire in nine years' time, when the Prime Minister is 60 years old. It won't be touched, it'll stand firm. Then the parliamentary pension and the minister's pension begin to tick into the PM's account. I think it would be right for the Prime Minister and the Left to tell the Danes what the Left and what the Prime Minister's position is on retirement age. Apparently, the PM won't tell us today. I think there are many who are rightly concerned when they hear the Minister for Finance open up this. The Prime Minister says, "Well, we don't have a majority." No, but the Prime Minister must be able to answer whether the position of the Left is that the retirement age should be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140213	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140216	But I've answered that question. We have no plans to change anything. I have then indicated that, on the other hand, we have a plan to present after the summer break a perspective for the Danish economy in 2025 and that we will come up with what we might find the opportunity for proposals to ensure a room for manoeuvre. You can't deduce anything else from that except that we're going to do that. It is true that politics consists of prioritising, and there are a lot of historical decisions which Enhedslisten has stayed out of, and which could then have been left out of. Then you would have had a poorer country. You could do that. If we had not historically made tax reforms that ensured that we had a fairly competitive income tax system in Denmark, then the tax agreement in 2009 and the tax agreement in 2012 and if decisions had not been taken historically to ensure that we have also got some business framework conditions that are just about competitive, and we could have failed to do so, then we could have had lower employment, higher unemployment and even lower growth. That could be done, but that would not have been a good idea, and so I would reserve the right to make all the proposals I would like to make in the future, which are about ensuring that the Danish economy is also sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140330	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to the questioner. The next one is sir. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140341	Thank you for that and also thank you for the opening words on the autumn debates. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that this will be very, very crucial negotiations for Denmark's future. At the same time, I think it is absurd to hear such a revival of the election campaign orchestrated by Mette Frederiksen, as if there were no money to make tax cuts. I mean, we have studies that show that if only all municipalities do it as well as the best municipalities in this country, for example. Frederiksberg, there's 29 billion. kr. to collect in efficiency improvements without reducing the service level at all. It is money that is just picking up, and it is not changing rules in any way whatsoever. It can be done under the existing rules if you just take inspiration from the best-run municipalities. It's just getting started. Moreover, a large part of that money could go to lighten the tax at the bottom and give the people who go to work every day the help that they are told that they are allowed to keep a little more of their own money. I just think we should get started on that, and I think that would be a good working policy, by the way, on 1 May. That is the one part of our challenge, namely to create growth. The second part is the refugee debate. The Liberal Alliance has proposed that we introduce a complete ban on asylum in Denmark for two years in order to have an overview of the situation and, moreover, to be able to afford much more help in the neighbourhoods, namely by starting to spend the money that we save on it in the neighbourhoods instead of where we can help much more. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position on our proposal for a permanent asylum freeze in Denmark for two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140521	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140523	May I not first congratulate the product development, for there is a bit from the proposal for those thoughts about open borders and closed boxes ■ but that is now just said. If it conceals a concern about the fact that there are too many asylum seekers, then that is a concern I share, and it is also something we have worked hard to address with 34 tightenings, border controls, etc. At present we have a situation in which we have a limited influx. So, in December there were about 100 asylum seekers a day, and last week there were about 10 a day. If it was the expression of a firm, permanent, forward-looking trend, maybe we could handle it. That is also the reason why I do not think that anything else needs to be done at the moment other than what we are already doing with border controls and tightening up. Then there is a need to do something next to that, according to the discussion with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl before, to get those who are not in employment done self-help. There is a perspective that we would also like to discuss, which is about getting people to go home again. That's what it looks like right now. By the way, we'll keep this under extremely close surveillance. If I do not just clap and say that we should do so, then it is because we would still like to contribute to the finding of a real, permanent European solution that means that we are not just pushing this problem from one country to the next, but that Europe is collectively ensuring that it is protected in such a way that there is no pressure on Europe. That'd be the best part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140714	Here you go, sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140717	First of all, I would like to comment on the Prime Minister's preliminary remark, which I choose to regard as more polemical than real policy, about open borders and closed boxes, because I believe that the Prime Minister is fully aware that open borders we never intended to be introduced into a situation where public funds are available. It is absolutely conditional that you cannot have it if you come to Denmark. So immigrants who come to get a job that has a contract with a Danish employer, we warmly welcome, but we have a different situation with regard to refugees, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister recognises that. When it is so important for us to try to get pressure on this agenda to stop spontaneous asylum, it is because it actually has incredibly many unfortunate consequences that we do not have a stop. Because it gives people the feeling that they can escape from the first safe country to which they come. After all, no one comes to Denmark seeking asylum which has not been in a safe country before they come to Denmark. So none of them are really refugees, they are migrants. We have to see this because they have been in a safe country. But along the way they have risked their lives to the very highest degree. Last year we saw 2 000 people dying alone in the Mediterranean. So there is a call to take our proposal for a complete stop to asylum-seeking in Denmark, spread it beyond Europe, take the initiative to lift it up at European level, and that is what I would like to hear if the Prime Minister is willing to take that ball up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140841	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503140843	But that is the idea we are pursuing from the Danish side, in a European context, to have a European policy that sends a strong signal to people in Africa and elsewhere that there is no open door into Europe. That is why we have reached the agreement with Turkey to ensure that people coming from Syria can also be returned to Turkey. It will therefore be more effective if we can bring about a European system that works. And right now, and here I am not saying that there are no problems, there is a development that is drawing the right path on a Western Balkans route that has been shut down, because of the Turkey Agreement, because of the Austrian initiative, and also because of a position, that is, the Austrian route, which I believe will have an impact on a possible alternative route across the Mediterranean. We're keeping all this under surveillance. I note that right now, the figures have fallen from 100 a day to 10 a day. And in this situation, that is, right now, there is no basis for taking more, you might say, own, isolated Danish initiatives. We need to use our voice to push for a European solution. And with that I do not exclude, I do not rule out that if things suddenly change, the position can also change.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141015	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141017	I just have to say that I simply do not agree with the Prime Minister. And I also think it is wrong to take isolated figures from January and then compare them with the figures from September or October. You have to compare January with January. And only the figure given by the Prime Minister here outlines by 10 a day, if it just continues and it is quite unrealistic that it does not increase during the year 3,650 on an annual basis. And that means that it is at least, because we know that the period of the year we are in now is where absolutely the least comes if we compare with the years back. So that's why we think it's important. It is also important that we do not just wait for an overall European solution to be found. Sometimes some countries also have to take the lead. We already see that there are initiatives taking place in Austria and elsewhere where there are some, because the European system is as slow as it is in this area, taking some initiatives which then pressure the other countries to lift the ball and move on with it. And that's why we want something to be done about this area. Because it is important that we send a signal to the people, the unhappy people who are on the run, that it doesn't help anything to start moving up through Europe • women along the way on this flight are being raped, children spend the night in forests. There are so many unhappy fates because we have given them an illusion that it is actually possible to obtain asylum when you get through all those countries, for example. all the way up to Denmark. So, take an initiative!
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141133	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141141	Yes, we have taken a number of initiatives. Because I think it is fair to say that the position we took together in Denmark in the autumn and over the autumn and over the winter, about the initiatives in which we tightened up, both on the conditions of residence, on temporary and other matters, were initiatives which were not what I would like to use such comme il faut or mainstream when we took them, and which, of course, have helped to get some sense into this debate, including in a number of other countries. You can look around, and then you can see what initiatives have subsequently been taken in Norway, in Sweden, in Germany to some extent, in Austria. Overall, it has contributed to a completely different realism in the European debate on how we deal with this. Overall, this has led to the opening of the way for an agreement to be reached which is then also challenged from some quarters, but still with Turkey, which has precisely the purpose of Mr. Anders Samuelsen asks, and I agree with him, that Europe cannot send out a signal that Europe is open to all. That simply cannot be done. And that signal is being sent. We follow it closely, and I think we should act when it is wise. I'm not here to rule out anything. I say that with the figures we have at present, there is some sort of control over the situation. If it develops, we must, of course, be prepared to take further initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141313	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen and the Prime Minister. The next person to ask the Prime Minister is sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141324	Thank you. My first question, no, actually the first two questions are on foreign policy issues, and the Prime Minister is prepared. In fact, I would like to commend the Prime Minister for having asked Peter Taksøe-Jensen to make the report he has made. It is interesting to get an external look at Danish foreign policy and use the report to actually seriously discuss in the Parliament Hall and the parties between how we think Denmark should act on the big stage. There are some things in the report that the alternative agrees with, and something that we absolutely disagree with. What is positive is the weighting of Europe and cooperation in Europe. We think it is sensible that we should use our development aid wherever it is intended, and not at home. Then there is something we are critical of. That is the very narrow national perspective that lies in it. Does this ensure our security, that is, the security issue and the economic issue? Our position when it comes to foreign policy is that Denmark should not just be the best country in It must also be the best country for It takes us seriously, and we look out and see what the two basic biggest challenges we have globally are. What is it that causes the most conflict? One is, of course, the totally biased inequality between rich and poor, so the global inequality agenda is crucial for us. The second is, of course, the climate challenge, and there I would very much like to ask the Prime Minister about the two fundamental challenges, the global inequality and the climate crisis: how should this be reflected in Danish foreign policy? That is the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141511	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141513	I think it should be reflected in this way that it should be a priority, and I do not think there is any disharmony between having an ambition on the one hand to be the best country for the world and, on the other hand, to have a focused foreign policy. But of course it is based on the realization, which I believe we agree on at some level, that our resources, in other words human, economic, technological, diplomatic, will never solve all the world's problems. That is why we must give priority to this. What is being proposed, which I basically agree with, is to give priority to some considerations as to whether there is an additional Danish interest. I mean, if we do something good for, for example... The climate, it is good to do something for the climate, no matter where we do something good for the climate. But is there any further consideration of whether there is a further Danish interest, whether there is a partnership option, whether there are others other than us who are making promises? What happens if we're not there? Will the assignment be lifted by someone else? Are we just a little supplement, or are we making all the difference? That brings us to the third point: can we make a difference? Is there an impact on what we do? To put down such a filter when making decisions about which countries to operate, I do not think that is out of line with the ambition to be the best country for the world. In it is another idea that I myself find charming, namely that, in relation to the new UN objectives, which are all important, we are considering Danish thinking about which of these important objectives Denmark has the best chance of supporting it. And then you'll see that, among other things. remain on such issues that relate to the climate, i.e. about green technology, about water, where we have strong Danish competences both at authority level, because we have regulated the area as we do, but also derived from business. Then I think it is rational to try to put it in some form of system and say that then we will make a difference where we can make the greatest difference and, moreover, do so in a way where it also has a positive effect on ourselves. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141715	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141717	I will be pleased with the answer given by the Prime Minister and hope that these are not just good words down here in the Chamber, but that you can actually read it in concrete action afterwards. When I read the report, I miss an assessment of the global inequality that we see today, which is a huge conflict-forming factor at all levels. This is supported, of course, by the climate crisis we are also in the middle of, but I take it as a sincere feedback from the Prime Minister that the Prime Minister also believes that Denmark should not only be the best country in the world, but also for the world. Of course, I'm glad. One of the major issues at the moment in terms of foreign policy is, of course, Denmark's position in relation to the TTIP negotiations between Europe and the United States. The alternative has criticised several times that the negotiations are very opaque. What's going on behind the doors? Yesterday, a lot of papers were leaked from these debates, which at least worry me and worry the alternative, as to whether we sell out of our environmental standards at European level, whether we sell out in relation to our consumer safety and also in relation to work protection and quality in our workplaces. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister in relation to what has now been leaked: does that put the TTIP negotiations in a new light from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141850	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503141852	Without being able to claim that I have been familiar with all leaked papers, just as I did not get to read the Extra magazine this morning, I can say something in terms of attitude. Basically, we are positive about a transatlantic trade agreement, TTIP. And why are we? That is because if you have to take a quick answer to the helicopter, you have to say that some of what I think you will basically decide is whether you want to belong to those who in the future set the rules, the world has to play by, or whether you want to be the ones who will play by some rules in the future. We are therefore in a global development where Asia is growing from and where there will be a unique chance if you look at the United States and Europe together with the big economy, which is linked to it, in order to maintain the privilege of setting standards in the world. I would rather go into that work and be involved in setting standards with the Americans, for which the rest of the world must adjust, than let the US economy and Europe's economy insane at some point in history, when I have left it and live in a world where everything is dictated from elsewhere. So, overall, we're positive. We are also in a Danish interest, because Danish prosperity stands and falls with us trading with the rest of the world. That is what has created Denmark. Accessing unbureaucratically an even larger market would be good for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142018	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142020	I agree, of course, that it would be nice if we were to lay down the rules of the game and formulate the rules of the game, but the papers that have now been leaked suggest that they are American rules of the game, and that is why I asked the question. The last question that comes now is, after all, the question of Members, the Members of the Alternative, to the Prime Minister, and it is perhaps not surprising that last week the Ethics Council came out with the recommendation that we should lower our meat production and meat consumption, assuming that meat production is one of the most CO2 production. Then the Minister of Climate Change clearly went out and said that he strongly disagreed with the recommendation of the Ethical Council. The members of the alternative will then ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister agrees with his climate minister and whether it is really true that one cannot see the sense of reducing meat consumption when the scientific evidence is that it is one of the largest CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142123	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142125	Then put the steak on the plate, you might say. I am very surprisingly in agreement with my minister. Each of us has to think about how to put his own diet together, and I think that there can be good advice from him that he should not be over-consumer of beef. Having said that, it is now my certain impression that the beef we produce in Denmark is also produced with the prospect of making it as sustainable as possible. I am familiar with the fact that I have to be careful now, because I stand in Parliament and speak under ministerial responsibility, so I take the small reservation that Danish conventional milk is the milk the world over with the lowest CO2 has researched in feed systems, and because, when we talk about conventional milk production, it takes place in stables where methane gas is under control and such things. So you can say: what should Denmark's contribution be to humanity? Should it be to hold onto the competences we have in terms of research and development and then try to develop a cattle production that is in harmony with nature, or should it be to turn around on our heels and not to eat beef? So that's where I'm gonna join the first team... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142237	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142247	I took note of the Prime Minister's introduction by saying that the plan to be put forward after the summer holidays was not only seemingly decisive for the government's future, but for all of it sounds important, and I think it is also, because it is almost as if on the signals coming the ostrich is on its way to taking its head up the bush and just as well as seeing the challenges right in the face and finding that Denmark is in the slightly longer term challenged if we are to have room to invest in green conversion, in the future of our children through education and not seeing the cuts, among other things. In education, we've seen the past year's time. So far, so good. When it is a plan that can be decisive for Denmark's future, I will also hurry to say that if we begin to create Denmark's future and provide us with a space to take our fate seriously in our hands, then of course the Radical Left is ready to take hold. Almost two years ago, the Prime Minister in his capacity at that time gave an interview where it was stated, and I quote: I do not want to be Prime Minister at all costs. If I'm going to be prime minister, I need room to implement my policy. A moment ago, in an answer to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Prime Minister said that the thing about keeping track of public expenditure and so on. There was no majority in favour, and that is why the policy for which a majority could be found was now being pursued. That is why I would just like to ask quite specifically: when it comes to the challenge of living happily rising faster than we had provided for in the old welfare agreement, and the derived challenges that come from it and from the oil prices and of all the other things the Prime Minister has pointed out, are we talking about a plan for Denmark's future that has such a character that the Prime Minister says it is so important to him as Prime Minister that he should have room here to implement his own policy? Or is it one of them where he says: Well, we'll see how it goes, as long as I continue as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142448	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142449	Well, I don't really think I'm being interpreted as being quite fair; well, I can easily understand it. But I think that there is a big difference between saying that I will only have one position or another if I get my whole policy implemented into every detail, and seeing what was almost set up as the opposite, namely that we make no difference. Well, this government is here because we make a huge difference, huge difference. We are making Denmark freer, richer and fairer. We are in the process of moving out 4 000 jobs, which I think can be given a state guarantee for everyone would be where they are if the previous government had continued. We have tightened up the immigration policy considerably, and I believe in a number of points also against Mr Giscard d'Estaing's report. Morten Østergaard's voices. I think we could give a backward-looking guarantee that this would not have happened if the previous government had continued. We are in the process of liberalising the law of plans. We have created a food package that will also provide Danish agriculture in a sustainable, naturally acceptable way. We are heading in the right direction, and we need to go further; that is why we are presenting a plan. It will be a little premature if I have to stand up and guarantee to some what is involved and what is not in the plan even before we have made it and, in relation to others, to define it as a matter of cabinet. That's why I think everyone's just gonna have to arm themselves with patience. We are working hard to ensure that when Tinget is gathered after the summer break, we can have a properly informed discussion about what is really up and down in the Danish economy. 'Cause I think sir... Morten Østergaard and I agree that Denmark is facing some challenges not very far into the future, which currently does not fill enough in the political debate. I think we will agree on that. We need that to be brought to light. Where will Denmark be in 10 years' time if we do not act? What kind of Denmark can we create if we act on some points? This is the debate I would like to have, but I think it should be on an enlightened basis, even before I take a position on which parts of the plan are then the expression of a cabinet issue for the government at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142649	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142651	What I just notice is that when it comes to this issue of creating Denmark's future, I didn't quite learn much more about whether it belongs to the PM in the category of things that you put your post on, or whether it belongs to the category of things where you have to let it go like this day and road. However, when I still hope for some development in the Prime Minister's views, it is because about a year ago I was thinking about what could be done to address exactly the issue that the government has now found to be of interest to. On that occasion, the Prime Minister said that he thought that the focus I had on retirement was a masochistic and I would just like to ask whether it is still the Prime Minister's view that it is masochistic to say to all of us who can that we need to be a little longer on the labour market, so that we can then in turn afford to invest in education instead of cutting down, investing in research instead of cutting down, having an offensive green conversion. Is it still masochistic in the Prime Minister's view, and is that the approach you want to take in relation to the work on this plan for the future of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142758	Prime Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142800	So, one can at least listen to it in the debate that the way in which Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen took it down on this point referred to it and spoke it out, it would be possible to settle for her if we had that view, Mr President. Morten Østergaard did, didn't he? Then you can define what you want. We are not getting much closer to this than saying that what we have set out to do is to spend the time over the summer on the light of where the world is right now and here, with an IMF that is turning down global growth expectations, with a development of fossil fuels that contains some good points for the real economy, but quite a lot bad for the national economy, with an immigration pressure on Europe, with the productivity development that is, or perhaps rather not, there is an overall view of where Denmark is in ten years' time if we are sitting on our hands. Where can Denmark be if we take our hands out of our pocket and do either one or the other? I therefore reserve the right to take the time required to submit a plan after the summer break. That would be unwise of me, and I do not want to be, at least not in areas where I can see for myself that it would be unwise to stand and say in advance that there is something we will certainly do or something we will certainly not do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142923	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503142924	Yes, I take that as an admission that it is probably not quite as masochistic as it has been in any case. And that is a good thing, because what we can hope for if the will happens and we can find a majority that will promise is that we will then replace the policy that has been pursued, where priority has been given to the expense of future generations, that is to say, where training has been reduced where real investment should be made, reduced to research where real investment should be made, in order to be able to afford, yes, what do I know, more policemen or various other government priorities. This is not a way to create the future of Denmark. That is why my final appeal is, in fact, that one finds the courage to stick to the fact that if we are to start creating Denmark's future together, it will probably require some of us all. There is no point in the government pursuing a policy in which, instead of asking us all to help to get to grips with the least already, that is to say, the recipients of cash aid who have to live too little less, or newly arrived refugees who have to do too little less than those we already believe will have a minimum level of subsistence. In any case, I would say that if it is masochism to ask all of us who can to work a little longer, then I do not know what kind of word one has to put on it to ask those who have the least to do for less.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143043	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143045	I think that was very well said, and it is a fine call to the government, which I share, in other words at the level of abstraction, that everyone needs to take action. That is also what I tried to stress in my introductory remarks to this Question Time one and a half hours ago, namely that there is a need for parties not to position themselves in such a cementy position in advance that nothing can be done. I believe that it will serve all of us that there will now be a few months to say that Denmark's full challenges will be unfolded on the basis that we can then also have a joint discussion on how to deal with them. I think there is something in that things have to be taken in the right order. At least that is what we insist on by saying that, in 2020, when we have a room for manoeuvre that has disappeared due to a number of things that have come from outside, that is, oil prices, migratory pressures and other things, then it would be wise to throw the light a little further out and have an enlightened space before deciding how to go into it, where to sit down and how to position yourself. I'm gonna take all the questions that have fallen from sir. Morten Østergaard here, as a signal that this debate would like the Radical Left to join, and I would like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143201	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. We move on with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143208	The Prime Minister began in his introduction by reversing the Taksøe report. The recommendation on how Danish foreign policy should be forward-looking was published yesterday, and I see both bad and cinnamon in the package. It is a good thing that it has been established that the Iraq war was clearly a mistake and that development aid is best used in developing countries and not in Denmark, while what is bad is, of course, that Danish foreign policy still needs to focus on wars of aggression and that we should militarily equip massively. So I'd like to use this opportunity to follow up on this report. It will also be important to know whether the Prime Minister intends to use his specially appointed adviser to introduce it into Danish foreign policy. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can imagine that the defence budget will grow in the coming years, while at the same time the Minister for Finance has asked the municipalities to stop whining about forced cuts in the area of older people, children and primary schools during the KL summit. So, can the Prime Minister imagine that we are cutting welfare to finance increased military spending?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143321	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143323	May I not recommend that you read that statement one more time? I admit that one minute is not a long time, but I do not think that the record entirely matches the impression that I am left with after reading this report. In relation to the more substantive, that is, the future of defence expenditure, the situation is that we have a defence settlement that lasts until 2017, and in good time before we want to invite negotiations. What one can at least pull out of this analysis is that the security policy situation which led to the defence settlement we now have has changed. We all helped to take a significant peace-dividing home after the fall of the Berlin Wall, with a picture of a cooperative Europe and a Russia that would integrate, and we are in a different situation now. We are faced with a situation in which the Russian Foreign Minister hints, and perhaps even more than hints, that if Sweden thinks of integrating more closely into NATO cooperation, it threatens. I was in Poland recently, and I was able to hear my Polish colleague say about, you might say, the challenges of Polish territory. There are some dimensions here that we need to take seriously. So do we have an ambition to say in advance that more money needs to be spent? I think it is clear that this is not at all how we were born in relation to any sector, but we have the ambition that we should be able to solve the tasks satisfactorily, and therefore we cannot stand here and say that there is no need for a future defence settlement to add more resources to defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143505	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143507	I know that the Prime Minister, like me, knows that there is only one bag of money, and if you want to spend more money on defence, you have to take it elsewhere in the state budget. I would say that there should be no doubt that the SF would like to find the money within defence budgets and move them around. We have done so in the past, but we are not willing to take money from welfare to defence. Furthermore, I do not disagree with the Prime Minister that what is currently happening in Russia, or, for that matter, the question of whether Poland and the whole Baltic region should have increased observation. I also note that in his report, Peter Taksøe-Jensen recommends that there is more focus than necessarily in the Middle East, where he says you should think very carefully. Does it promote the desired purpose of the activities in the Middle East, contribute to peace, create more security and stability in Denmark? I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether it would not be appropriate to follow up that recommendation precisely by analysing how our military efforts have worked. We have been involved in the Iraq War in 2003, in Afghanistan, later in Libya and now in Iraq again. Has it all contributed to more peace and stability? You could do a cost-benefit analysis of whether it's come back okay. In addition, there are 60 people who have actually been killed in battle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143625	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143627	I think that when we talk about security and defence of Western values, we cannot just do cost-benefit analyses. I do not know how to put democracy precisely on an economic formula or genocide or anything else. Is the lost year of life in the country where people are killed because we do not intervene, which is to be counted into it does not affect the Danish state budget or how should we do so? I can say that we will go to the defence negotiations when they start, with the ambition of putting forward something that matches the new security policy situation we find ourselves in. What was the starting point when we settled last time was that this whole idea, whether there was a territorial defence at all, was mostly such an academic exercise because there was no threat. That picture has changed, and of course we need to take a look at that. With that, I did not say anything in advance about what kind of financial framework we want to lay down. I have just said that it would not be wise either in a situation where the previous government has signed up to a Wales declaration that we must pursue certain objectives to stand in advance and say that there will be no need to add more money to Danish defences. So may I not say about the money and one bag that is right (First Vice-President Yes!). But that is not more true than that one can also pursue a policy that makes the bags bigger, is it not? And that is why, in the autumn, we will be presenting a plan for Denmark, which will have the aim of giving us more room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143758	Thank you. It's the last round. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143800	There should be no doubt that if Danish society gets richer, there are of course different things that can be prioritised: tax rebates for the richest or more expenses in the defence, or you can choose, for example. to say that the Danes should be allowed to have more time with their children or better welfare. This is, of course, a matter of priority. There should be no doubt about where we stand. In relation to the whole debate on the defence budget, I think it is a little interesting that the Prime Minister says that they should start soon. That is why it would be good if the Prime Minister could tell us when to start, because as far as I know, the defence settlement will not run until 2017. We then have a topical discussion about the F-16s, which are challenged by the fact that they are worn out, and we need to have a discussion about new aircraft. It must enter the new defence settlement after 2017. Or does the PM think it's part of this conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143855	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143857	Well, the defence settlement runs until the end of 2017, so in 2017 a new defence settlement will have to be made. It is not the same as not having to make any arrangements at all in the intervening period. I have already said earlier in Question Time that we are now making a move in relation to the Arctic area and the tasks of defence there. At least to some extent this has been taken into account in the existing defence settlement, where there is a framework, and it must be implemented wisely. We would like that to be settled. Yes, I can also say that during this month we will come up with our proposal on how to replace worn-out F-16s with a new contribution that will ensure that we also continue to have a capacity in this area and can live up to our international obligations and play the role that Denmark is currently doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143951	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503143959	After all, this was a very interesting debate which the Prime Minister and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr had going on. I'd really like to follow that up a little bit. Now it is the case that we in the Conservative People's Party have made a vision of 2034 about a society in which those born this year will be 18 years old and about what kind of society they are going to take over. It should be a society with more security and more opportunities. There is plenty to do: lower taxes, a better primary school, more nature, a fight with parallel communities in Shadow Denmark. But all this presupposes that we have a sovereign and an independent nation that can take care of itself. Without security, we cannot act as people, and a secure world requires that there are nations that take international responsibility for defending the democratic values that we pay so much tribute to, and fight terrorism and take action against genocide. I think it's interesting that we have sworn an oath. We have sworn an oath in NATO. We have sworn that we are helping each other and will contribute and that it is not the United States that each time faces the greatest challenge. Everyone wants to use the defense. Not everyone wants to pay. That's a lot of effort. We fully agree that you have to go up to 2%. of GDP. We won't be there tomorrow. We're all in on that. It'll take time. We are pleased that Taksøe-Jensen has now announced that this is also the need. We can only be satisfied with that. We need to strengthen our defence in Denmark. Now, of course, we have spoken earlier today about nuclear welfare. We've been talking about the fact that there shouldn't be zero growth or minus growth. When we say that there has to be a small real growth, then it is one of them. Something the defense could help with when it comes to how that's where we spend money, too. That is why my question is quite brief: can the Prime Minister say with certainty today that the next time we have to negotiate defence settlements, what is being put on the table will be a proposal containing more resources for defence than is currently available?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144210	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144212	Now I have tried to make it a style to answer what is being asked. That is why I have to say that I cannot give that commitment today. Because that's what was asked. I can say that, from such a quick point of view, I agree with this security policy picture drawn up in Taksøe-Jensen's investigation. I referred to it in relation to the previous questioner and also agree that we should act on it. However, to say where exactly we stand in relation to what financial framework we will be laying the foundations for some negotiations on a new defence settlement to start on 1 January 2018, I cannot do today. There is, of course, the connection that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen also said that there must be real growth in public expenditure if there is to be real growth in defence, or alternatively, you have to cut somewhere else. There have been many wishes already in this Question Time to places where we needed more money. I can see that by 2020 we do not have much money. If we drive like we're driving now that everything's put together, we don't have much extra money. That is why I think, although it will be such a boring repetition of something I have said many times during this Question Time, that the wise thing now is that after the summer break we present a bid on how the Danish economy looks, when we cast 5 years longer light into the future, what you might be able to do to ensure that there is a little more to do with, and can you create something more to do with how it should be used. Is the defense a candidate? Yeah, there's the defense also a candidate. I agree, of course, with the policy of the commitment made by my predecessor, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, on behalf of Denmark at the last NATO summit, namely to try to break the curve really, and then to pursue an ambition to arm up defence expenditure. I agree, of course, that in the long run we cannot have a system in which the United States assumes three quarters of the bill by maintaining credible defence in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144423	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144426	Thank you. Of course, I have got all the wishes that will be slammed on the table in a few hours here, very understanding that you can quickly make the money run out. The reason why I am holding on to this is not that I do not understand why we have to find the money, and I look forward very much to the debate we will have in the autumn to make society richer. It is at this point in Question Time that I would like to ask what the Prime Minister's favorite dish is, because there is so much noise, nobody listens and the press has gone. But since that is the case, we cannot agree that since we concluded the last defence settlement, there has been an increased threat from the Russians, an increased threat as far as the terrorist image is concerned...
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144512	Excuse me, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. We simply need to have something more quiet in the Chamber, it is too much noise that is here. I apologize for the interruption, but it was too much. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144520	Thank you. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: are we not just where the threat picture has changed significantly since the last defence settlement and then there are only two options: either to give more money or to move around within the existing budget? And it is not realistic to move around within the existing budget, where hopefully there will also be room for a great many fighter planes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144542	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144544	Thank you. In fact, my favorite dish is probably the butterbread that is being picked up at a very, very crooked time at night, at night, or when it is now that some sort of negotiation is about to break through. Now I'm just answering it because I was asked about it, but perhaps also as a game for that I hope as there will be an opportunity to get back on many later occasions the serious question raised here. Because I think we basically agree on the analysis. But I just have to make the reservation that I cannot act on it without also having the room to do so. The first place we are going to meet this discussion will in fact be, if not for so long and with certainty, before the end of the defence settlement. For the government will present a concrete proposal during this month on how to replace the existing F-16 capacity. And it goes without saying that we cannot do this without there being an economic dimension in it too. So it's a theme we're going to return to relatively quickly. It will be the Secretary of Defense who is running those negotiations, and he will be the one serving the bread of butter, but I hope that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen will also show up and that there will be a basis for taking it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144706	It's the last round. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144708	I think anyone can look at me that I'm going to do that. Then I would like to end somewhere else, but at the same time in a ball street that is about defence. After all, we are indescribably pleased with the amendment of the law that came here recently, where we took a stand that our veterans have been throwing balls in the public system, namely the law for which we were passed, it is 14 days ago and which says that there is an intercommunal payment, so that it is not the municipality that has the veteran home that has it all. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he will help to make a special effort for the case of returned veterans and returned veterans. I think it is extremely provocative for people who have been sent out to fight for the security and freedom of all of us, to experience that they have to fight over and over again with, for example. The Department of Occupational Injuries. Veterans can report frustrating events, and cases of ptsd are dismissed. So, the veterans who have been laying around with the Taliban are told that they have not been exceptionally threatened. We cannot deal with this here, but I just want to know if the Prime Minister will help us put a particular focus on it and also be ready to give special treatment to our veterans who have fought for us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144829	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144832	Thank you. I fully share the gratitude we must feel in relation to our veterans, young men and women and also more mature men and women who have been sent to Denmark on dangerous missions. Fortunately, most people come home stronger than they went out, but others return home with scars on their body and soul. We are, of course, grateful for that effort, which is why we must, of course, also take responsibility for bringing them forward in life. That is why I am proud to be the Prime Minister who had the privilege of being Prime Minister when we made a veteran policy back in 2009. And the government has announced that we would like to follow up and adjust and improve it. Of course, there will be a question of this, and we look forward to working together on this. There is no doubt that one of the challenges we face, which has at least been there, has been to make what can be said of civil authorities to understand what particular challenges we face here, because we simply have not historically had that tradition and that challenge. And if we can do something more there for • with a terrible, new-fashioned Danish expression • to smooth the processes, that is something I would like to declare open to. But the government is making a move.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503144949	Thank you, Prime Minister. Question time's over. We move on to the agenda where there are votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145001	Member of the Folketing Andreas Steenberg applied for leave from 10 May 2016 in accordance with Article 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145024	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the Second Deputy of the Radical Left in Western Jutland's Greater District, Johannes Lebech, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 10 May 2016 on the occasion of Andreas Steenberg's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to join this leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145054	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 108 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145154	In the Enhedslisten, we were against the progress reform even when it was adopted in 2013, and there we have already seen here how the progress reform has since caused major problems in universities. It is both about the number of re-exams that have exploded, and students who will have to drop out or go down with stress. On the whole, universities are also at their knees financially, and that is why I think it is very reasonable that this initiative was taken last year to look at the adaptation of the drive reform. Unfortunately, it has to be said that from our point of view in the Enhedslisten, we are very, very far from being in line with this adjustment, because the financial framework is still the same, the responsibility has just been shifted to universities, and in fact it will mean that each student can be subject to much tougher sanctions. One of the things that I think is very, very serious is that is also why I am going up and taking the floor here today is that this adaptation also means the introduction of user charges into our education system. If e.g. In other words, a teacher or nurse who is in the process of or has taken a professional course must continue to study at the university, they may be subject to user charges of between DKr 8,000. and 20,000 kroner. It is insanely much money in that situation and can therefore cut people off from taking an education. At first reading, several of the rapporteurs just mentioned that this was actually the idea, namely that people would be excluded from further education, and I think that is a very strange way of conducting education policy. The last thing I want to say to you is that an additional element has been included in this bill, which is about opening up a general character requirement for quota 1. The University of Copenhagen has already announced that they will make a general claim on the grade 6, and so it can both hit small subjects that will have to close, but it may also mean that young people who come from a non-academic background get much harder to enter and get an education at Copenhagen University in the first place, but also at our other universities if this becomes a general trend. So basically, I just have to say that we in the Enhedslist think it is a pity that the parties behind the drive reform do not realise that there are some fundamental problems in this reform, and instead of making such small patchwork solutions as what we are seeing now, and moreover also introducing user charges, which I think are very, very serious, I would urge those parties to put their efforts into shutting the reform down completely, because we are simply not getting any more skilled students chasing them through the system in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145433	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145443	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 8 (LA). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145513	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145531	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145558	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145619	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 16 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145647	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145712	Thank you. I would like to explain why the Danish People's Party has tabled amendments to the motion for a resolution on the suspensive effect on people with disabilities. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wants suspensive effect on people with disabilities who had not improved their ability to function so that they did not suddenly have no help in their daily lives. A complaint may extend over several years, when the citizen will have to cope without the assistance and support he or she has been denied. Several citizens and a number of disability organisations and the Council of Lawyers have repeatedly pointed out the problem. The everyday life of people with disabilities is made more difficult during the period in which they are unduly deprived of the help that helps to maintain their normal way of life. This can affect their quality of life, impair their ability to function, impair their job situation and affect family life and affect them severely mentally all conditions which can cause irreparable damage. It was a wish of several parties to clarify the target group for suspensive effect, since it was not considered clear enough in the resolution. In order to obtain 90 mandates for this resolution, we have therefore accepted and clarified the wishes. It is a great day today, because we are going to help a great many people so that they are not taken hostage in a lengthy process of complaint. I can say a lot about the process in this process, but I will not. Instead, I would like to thank the parties that support and those who have supported all the way through. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Ministry, who have helped in drafting the amendments. It is then that we want to shout loudly, but out of respect for the President, I shall refrain from doing so, but I welcome all the positive feedback we have received on the motion for a resolution. The Multiple Sclerosis Society has written, and I quote: "Now we are finally getting the right focus on the fact that it cannot be the individual person who has to pay a high price for the system's shortcomings. ▪ And the Muscleswind Foundation writes that it is epoch-making that the Danish Parliament is finally thinking in those lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145936	Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503145944	I certainly understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, wants to shout hurrah. There is reason to do so. We have really taken an important step here. If you refer to the process, it is to be perfectly honest where it can be a little annoying as a minister when some of those very important, insistent rapporteurs come before a minister, and that is what I have to admit has been the case here. I think it is a crucially important initiative that we are taking now in relation to the discussion about when there should be suspensive effect when citizens with disabilities experience that the decision they have got to the municipality is simply not the correct one. I certainly hope that, with the adoption of this amendment, and thus the overall limited motion for a resolution, we will agree that this is an important step in an overall effort to simplify the adult provisions of the Services Act, so that the municipal case officer also gives the correct decisions, understandable decisions, so that the individual citizen does not find the need to complain about the decisions to the same extent as is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150059	Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150105	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee), on Amendment No 1. 3 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (S, V, LA, RV and KF), or on Amendment No 3. 4, by a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee)? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150125	The debate is now devoted to the whole of the proposal. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150134	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150207	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150225	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the proposal should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150250	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150323	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150337	I think things have evolved since the first reading in such a way that, in all silence, I would urge the government to withdraw their proposal, alternatively, that we have to vote it down. I was thinking that as the answer to Mr. Mogens Jensen's question, virtually no advantage is in moving DIIS to Aarhus. There are plenty of drawbacks, an incredible lot of expenses and a lot of waste on the roads. If we moved DIIS to Aarhus, we also had to ask them to make a subdivision in Copenhagen, so we had them over here in the significant time when we need them. That would be completely meaningless. Perhaps it is such a general trend that when you have to make a foreign policy, you put a single person to it, and then he can sit and mess with it, instead of making it a common process, and when you have to have a debate on foreign policy, you can move it to Aarhus, where none of us have time to run over anyway, at least not on weekdays. Of course, the Århusians have time for it, and it will be very fine; they could have a small exclusive club over there. I was thinking something. What would the government say if we proposed that we now move the Prime Minister's Office to Aarhus? On the one hand, there could be many good reasons for this at this time with the government we have. Maybe they did a little less damage in politics. But on the other hand, what the hell have we done to the Århusians? There's really no need to bother them. After all, there were several of the proposals which were not so difficult, for example. Those who move work into the country because there was a reasonable, objective, professional reason where there was something to get, i.e. where there was little added value in moving the workplace somewhere else. There's no such thing in this proposal. If the Minister still thinks there's just one good argument... one good argument... I'd like to listen to it, but then I'd ask him to tell it from here. This is simply the most flagrantly bad proposal I have seen while I have been sitting here. Fortunately, I haven't been sitting here that long. But please tell me one good argument for us to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150559	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, but these are short remarks that are made from the platform, so that the answer is again from here. Here you go, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150608	Thank you. If Enhedslisten goes to the platform here at second reading and asks for good arguments for doing so here, then one could turn it around and ask what good reasons there are to say no to moving a research institution, DIIS, with approx. 100 employees to Denmark's second largest city, one of the largest university cities and one of the most prominent university cities in Europe. At the same time, there is already a very, very close collaboration between Aarhus University and DIIS today. So, is it because Enhedslisten believes that you can't have such research institutions in Aarhus? Is it because Enhedslisten really feels that you can only have it in Copenhagen? So, what is the justification? Did Mr. Christian Juhl ever been to Aarhus? By Mr. Christian Juhl not well that maintaining the research level is absolutely something that will be possible in Aarhus? When Mr. Christian Juhl has apparently advocated looking for good reasons, I would like to hear just one good reason why it will not be possible to place it in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150716	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150720	It's very easy there's one reason. Former mayors who would like to be re-elected to the Danish Parliament would, of course, like to have it for Aarhus. But 98%. of the people attending the meetings live in the capital. When you make sure that 2,628 physical meetings, which are primarily held for people living in the capital, are now to be held in Aarhus, then there is something that tells me that there are only arguments to vote against this proposal. I mean, I don't run village politics or whatever it's called. I don't find any suggestions in favour of my circle and say: Now all you have to do is vote for me, because I've got seven jobs moved to Roskilde, Silkeborg, or where the hell it can be. It's too flat. Try to be honest. Try to take a position on something other than that the rapporteur has just happened to be the mayor of that area and would like to be re-elected to Parliament in that area. This is an honest matter, but that is not an objective argument for a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150832	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150838	I can't exactly say that the level of political argument was higher, the second round Enhedslisten went on the platform, and that one apparently also actually thinks that Aarhus is a village, makes it even worse. But apparently that's what Enhedslisten means. We just believe from the Left that a research institution which researches foreign policy will also be able to place itself in a city such as Aarhus. And as far as the number of meetings and the like is concerned, I have to give you the information that seems to be a huge surprise to Enhedslisten that you cannot necessarily only go from Copenhagen to Aarhus; it is therefore possible to travel both ways. So it is absolutely an option, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503150925	Well, now I live next door to the village of Aarhus, so for me there is no problem. Well, I travel back and forth every week, and I also go to Aarhus if there is a good meeting, and if I have time for it. However, it seems that the rapporteur has not read the answers to the questions about what this means at all. This costs an extra travel time of 11,400 hours for the people who have to travel back and forth. And if you count the people who have to make presentations, we're up to 1,800 working days. That's completely insane.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151007	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151027	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151058	First of all, we shall vote on L 147: we shall vote on Amendment No 1. 1-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken on L 148. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151131	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151148	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151213	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151229	L 143 calls for the abolition of the differentiated treatment guarantee, which should instead be replaced by a general one. This means that there is a health assessment, which is replaced by an economic priority, and that the role of private hospitals in health care is increased. We in the Enhedslist support, of course, the right to rapid investigation and treatment, but this is not achieved by a guarantee which the proposal here proposes. That's what you get by getting more specialists. There is today, for example. lack of specialists in rheumatology, in children's psychiatry and in neurology. This issue is just getting worse with L 143. Instead of having resources moved from the specialties where competition is taking place, the proposal will give the regions priority, for resource reasons, operations such as back, hip, knee and obesity operations. Instead, there is a risk of downgrading medical patients with multiple diagnoses, of the harder psychiatric patients and of the acute patients today accounting for 75%. of all patients. Furthermore, the proposal means that we will have an even more fragmented health care system. Patients do not need more courses in different hospitals. Instead, there is a need for a coherent patient course where there is close cooperation between the different units. The unitary list sees it as a step backwards when abolishing the differentiated treatment guarantee of 30 days for life-threatening diseases and replacing it with a general one. As a consequence, some patients with relatively lighter genes are pushed forward in line in front of patients with more complicated courses. The proposal therefore does not, overall, contribute to improving health care. This alone contributes to the strengthening of the private sector in health care. This is something we have previously agreed with the Socialists on, but unfortunately the Socialists have now changed their position. That is why we have tabled an amendment so that we maintain the assurance of clarification, but so that the differentiated treatment guarantee is maintained. It is a proposal which has been supported by the Regional Council Presidents both in the capital and in North Jutland, and it is still my hope that the Socialists will vote in favour of that amendment so that we can have a united opposition to make the call for a rapid investigation, but reject the support for private hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151454	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151504	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. in favour of 25 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151549	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151604	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (RV) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 6 (RV and 1 DF (by mistake)), against 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), [for or against 0]. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and 4, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 5-7, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (RV) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 5 (RV), against 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (RV) and when the technique is ready, the vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 5 (RV), against 99 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 10, Acting by a majority? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151813	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503151925	Thank you, President. There are many people interested in this health bill in the Chamber, I hear it's nice. I have to say right away that the Socialists support this bill. There is nothing more important for us health politicians than patients' safety, and that is exactly what this bill is about. It is with great pleasure that we have arrived at a first-reading legislative proposal. In fact, over the last three years we have been working very closely on this issue and the challenges posed by the supervision of health professionals and health institutions. We have to go back to the spring of 2013, when Denmark's Radio brought a documentary about a doctor, that is, a medical professional who did not comply with what was good medical practice. At that time we had a Minister for Health, Mrs Astrid Krag, who started a coal excavation, in order to find out what the conditions in the Danish Health Authority and in Danish practice are actually. An expert opinion was obtained from an association of supervisors in Europe in order to obtain an independent assessment of a coal excavation of the Danish conditions. They made 57 recommendations regarding the supervision of doctors and other healthcare professionals and recommended and specified where improvements could be made. Based on this, the Danish Health Authority prepared an action plan with different areas of action. And then what happens? Then there will be a very, very critical relationship with a health professional. It was also Denmark's Radio that uncovered problem fields here. This meant that we actually made a very broad political agreement that the Danish Health Authority should have provided more resources and that some independent studies should be carried out in certain areas. Then we are moving towards a change of government in which the Minister for Health is working on the tactics of the Social Democratic-led government to say how we could build a health services company in a different, more efficient, more quality way. And this is where we are with regard to the proposed legislative proposal, which means that we are changing our supervisory practices from being highly reactive, a little routine, to being proactive, with a risk assessment of the various areas of health and health care, to setting up a new and better supervisory function. There's been a change in the structure of the Danish Health Authority, so we've also got a management board for patient safety, which is supposed to be in charge of this field. That is very good, and it is very welcome, because nothing is more important for a health service than proper and thorough supervision. Why? Yes, because patients, citizens, but also all those who work in the field of health need to know that things are being followed up, that things are being watched and, of course, that the necessary sanctions are being imposed if something has not happened, as it should be. In addition to these amendments, there are other elements in the draft law, and let me just mention three of them. There will be a look at the possibility of also depriving Danish health professionals of the authorisation if other countries in the Nordic countries have withdrawn the authorisation. It is also based on several bad stories that have affected patients here or in other Nordic countries, where health professionals, as is popularly said, shop from one country to another and produce a practice that is not in order according to good practice. Another element of the law is that some of the rules that are in this area are being cleaned up, and this is all helping to make the field more clear. The last thing I should like to mention is that in the field of medicine, it is intended to make a better, sensible and thorough exchange of information and data across the board, all of which will help to raise the picture of medicine consumption in Denmark, but also to bring out information that can help improve patient safety. It is a good bill, the economy is linked, and we have been negotiating politically very broadly over the last three years, and we are almost in line with the fact that all parties are involved. I am sorry that the Radical Left cannot support this bill, because it would have been strong for all parties to be involved. Nordic co-operation has also been strengthened, just as politically there is also a great deal of attention to the fact that European cooperation with regard to supervision and authorisation must also be an important part of the future. The Social Democrats are happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503152447	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503152459	If anything has taken my time here in the Folketing for the last eight years as a health rapporteur, it's a matter like this one. We all probably recognize cases such as the Omniscan scandal, the cough syrup scandal, foreign doctors who came to Denmark and could not their profession, several psychiatrist cases, which have left a lot more sick patients, for some with deaths. A great many questions have been asked, there has been a great deal of consultation and there have been legal investigations initiated which showed that supervision concealed information for us in the Health Committee. When the case of the psychiatrists came up, there was again a failed process in the supervision, where one did not respond, and where it only came out when Denmark's Radio began digging into the case. Here we have another lawyer's investigation going on. So it's definitely not over. As recently as today, I have received answers to some questions and I am still waiting for answers to some of the questions I have raised in this matter. So no matter what, those who have made the mistakes must be held responsible, because it has cost human lives and a major breach of trust to the entire Health Authority. As a patient in the Danish health care system, you should feel safe when you go to a doctor. And it's now difficult with all the cases we've seen. That is why we are now pleased that we have worked with the Minister through what future supervision should contain. I was asked at one point what supervision should contain. Yes, when there was a website, it was actually said that the supervision had to respond when there were inquiries, reviews or media that took up a case, but that was not done at the time. It is important that we have supervision that is proactive or takes the inquiries seriously and that ensures that doctors who come to Denmark do not make a series of bad recommendations. So I hope for someone that the new supervision will be proactive and respond when reports come in. For the important thing for the Danish People's Party is that citizens can feel safe and that they know that healthcare professionals know what they are dealing with and that they are well educated and factual. The proposal itself contains many points. I am not going to go over them here, because we simply do not have enough speaking time for that. But there are a few sub-points that I will go deeper into, as there may be certain challenges with them. Because, of course, we should not cut everyone loose and almost discredit every health care provider. That is why we must also ensure with this law that there is not too much time involved in the procedure when you look at whether a doctor should lose his authorisation. According to the proposal, up to two years may pass, and it may be a very long time if nothing has been done wrong. That is why I would like the Minister to answer the question as to why it should be two years. I mean, when we make a law in here, we can do it in a collection. We don't have to spend two years on that. The Minister answers in the hearings that it is expected that it will take one year, but that the 2. So I think, was it not better to say that it took one year, but that it could be extended in some cases? I think that would allow a period of time for the new supervision that might have been worked a little faster, because it is not exactly in the regimes that we have seen that we have worked quickly. Another thing is that the Data Protection Agency expressly expresses concerns about the registration and disclosure of medical information. I would like the Minister to clarify who has the opportunity to see the same information. Because in the Danish People's Party, we are very concerned about being careful about information, as well as how many people can get an insight into it. After all, we are already working on what we do with our health data and how we ensure transparency, but also ensuring that we have certain rights over our data. We must ensure that we do not compromise. We hope that the supervision will carry out the unpredicted supervision as described. Warning supervision means that everything can be changed, as the Minister also answers in the hearings. Because I do not really believe, as the Capital Region notes in the answers to the hearings, that it will be much more disturbing with unexpected visits. I have just been on many both alerted and untimely visits with section 71, which goes to secure institutions. And, in fact, it seems that there is more fuss when you give notice, because then there are a number of different parts of management and regional members, and then you can't be quite sure that it will actually be what you get from the visit that you had hoped for. So I hope that supervision will hold on to that. One final point I would like to make is that an organisation such as the Danish Psychotherapist Association does not cooperate with the authorities. I think this is a problem, as many psychotherapists have a health education and treat citizens. In 2001, the Danish Psychotherapist Association had to exclude a doctor because of patient complaints, but only 14 years later, in 2015, he was deprived of his authorisation by the Danish Health Service, and this despite the fact that he had previously lost his authorisation in Norway. So that is one thing I want to raise in committee, along with many of the other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503153043	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503153050	Thank you for the floor. The draft law on future supervision has many focal points and is probably what one might call a large overall package. In addition to creating a new supervisory framework, the term 'official doctor' and 'official medical institution' shall be deleted. This is not because there are to be changes in the distribution of tasks between the two decentralised sites west of Storebælt, but to clarify that the three units within the Patient Safety Management Board are part of a single organisational and task portfolio. I have chosen in my rapporteur's speech to focus on a few key points, and that does not mean that the other elements of the draft law are not important. It is merely an expression of the fact that speaking time in this platform is limited. One of the elements of the bill is to create a legislative legal basis for a completely new proactive, reactive and risk-based supervision of treatment sites and nursing homes. Another element is the creation of a strict set of rules for the withdrawal of authorisations and the restriction of the practice of authorised health professionals. The draft law is a consequence of the policy agreement on risk-based supervision of treatment sites, which was agreed on 11 February 2016. All parties support the agreement, except the Radical Left. The broad political support is a great strength and sends a signal that patient safety is high among the parties. The new risk-based supervision will reinforce the focus on those areas where there is a high risk to patient safety and where the consequences for errors can be fatal to the patient. I would like to acknowledge that the previous government took the initiative to initiate work in order to create health and safety. For us in the Left, patient safety and security are essential, because we have heard too many sad stories where it has been clear to everyone that the system has failed. In recent years we have been able to follow stories in the press, for example. on a psychiatrist from West Jutland who seems to have mistreated patients who have approached in good faith for treatment for serious mental disorders. On Funen we have been able to follow through the press a story about a psychiatrist who apparently has also mistreated his patients. Common to the stories is that Danish patients have often been treated with wrong preparations or excessive doses, and this has had fatal consequences for some of the patients. There have been several concerns regarding doctors to the Danish Health Service, which have not been responded to, and when the cases were finally dealt with, the damage had been done. And that's not good enough, so it's time to tighten up. The Minister for Health and the Elderly has previously led an organisational reorganisation of the new board, the Board for Patient Safety, which is to be the frontrunner. Now we have a legal basis in place so that organization and legal bases can go hand in hand. In the Nordic countries, we have strong traditions for doctors, such as is authorised in Denmark, has easily been able to obtain authorisation in Norway, and it is undoubtedly a good thing that authorized doctors in the Nordic countries can work freely. Unfortunately, we have been able to follow sad cases, including the press. a Danish doctor has worked both in Denmark and in Norway and in Sweden, and in all three countries a number of patients, relatives and doctors have complained about his treatments, just as last year a case pops up in the press where a Danish psychiatrist had been deprived of an authorisation in Norway after a sexual assault on a patient, but could continue as a psychiatrist in Denmark. For us in the Left, it is crucial that the Board for Patient Safety now has the opportunity to respond quickly in those cases and to assess whether a doctor is a danger to Danish patients and with the law in hand could deprive a given health care professional of the authorisation immediately, although there is of course also a legal certainty to go to the health care professional. Thousands of authorized health professionals carry out daily tasks with great professionalism for Danish patients. As an authorised health care professional, you take a great deal of responsibility, and it is important to stress that from my chair we all have an interest in strong and effective supervision in Denmark, whether you are a patient or a treatment. Unfortunately, the introduction of risk-based supervision is not free of charge. In order to ensure a fair distribution of the costs of the new supervision, there is political agreement among the parties to the agreement on a fee financing on the basis of a self-sustaining principle. It is graduated in such a way that the largest units pay the most and the smallest. The consultation answers show, among other things, that some associations, for example: Danish Foot therapists believe that it will hit the small units hard. The fee for a single-person clinic with a foottherapist is set at 1.891 DKK. annual. In evaluating the legislative proposal, I think it would be quite natural that there should also be an evaluation of the fee structure. In addition to being a health rapporteur, I am also an older rapporteur, and I have read with interest the consultation responses from Danish Seniors Councils and the Elders Case and Alzheimer's Association. From the outset, I understand the concern expressed in the transition from frequency-based to risk-based supervision, as well as the impatience of associations with the implementation of permanent care homes. I also think that this should be done today rather than tomorrow. Residential home residents are a particularly weak and exposed group, which requires us to keep a sharp focus on the conditions. In the Left, we will follow the area closely, and although the municipalities have an independent supervisory obligation, which I naturally expect to be met, I will read with great attention the evaluations in the area of nursing homes when they are available in approx. 3 years. On the left side, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503153619	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503153629	Thank you. Now I would like to start by saying that I am quite happy to hear the rapporteurs from both the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left say that this is a bill that has been spent a long time on. Because as a beginner I would like to say in the legislative work that I just had to sink once more when I saw this. Because I think it's a big and complex bill to have to deal with. But I can hear that there are some good reasons for this and that there are some good considerations behind it. I would also like to say that the Enhedslisten is in favour of this bill. What is involved in this is that in future, the Patient Safety Agency will take advantage of risk-based supervision, where in future it will be most focused on the practitioners and institutions where, through data acquisition and experience, it is known that the risk of failure or mistreatment is greatest. Of course, we support this in the Enhedslisten, also because it is being established that there is still the possibility of early supervision being carried out. However, we have a number of concerns about the draft law, which we would like to look at a little more closely in committee. On the one hand, we are a little concerned about the availability of the resources to carry out qualified supervision. On the one hand, we are concerned about the disappearance of the quality development resulting from more continuous supervision. After all, supervision is not just a control of possible failures. After all, supervision is also an opportunity to get some sparring in relation to quality development, to provide advice and guidance and to make some exchange of experience in the whole area. And we may be concerned about the disappearance of that function with risk-based supervision. Some of this will, of course, be remedied if, for example, there is to be an end to this. are permanently affiliated doctors at the care centres. But it is now a scheme that is only used to a very small extent by the municipalities, and it is also one that has been financed from the rate pool, which does not ensure continuous action. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned the issue of time limits, so I will not touch on that part of it very much. But there is also another part of the matter of time limits, and that is that it is said that there must be a processing period of up to 2 months in cases where a health care professional is suspected and therefore temporarily has his or her authorisation withdrawn. Some people have said in the hearings that this is a long time, and I can follow them in that way. It is clear that this is, of course, a balance between patient safety and care for the caregivers. But we will then try to find out in the committee's work whether it is not possible to set clearer deadlines in order to ensure a certain level of safety for both employees and patients. We also find it regrettable that official medical services should be abolished. We think it is important to maintain the respect and autonomy of the institution. We think it is important to maintain the function of an independent supervisory authority. We do not have much concern about the structural link with the Patient Safety Agency itself, but it is important to maintain the institution's independent reputation. In fact, we do not think that it is only about the word that it is important to maintain the function of the medical institution. As far as funding is concerned, we are pleased that the government will compensate the municipalities and regions for the additional costs they will incur in connection with the fee for risk-based supervision. It will, of course, be a form of general compensation, and that is why we would also like to pursue in committee whether there could be any burdensome imbalance in the distribution of expenditure, in other words ensuring that the compensation will also come back to the institutions that will pay for it. Finally, there is the whole question of data information. There are some considerations to take into account both patient safety and the possibility of detecting structural errors, including with a long time horizon. At the same time, there is also concern for data security and the right of citizens to know what information is being shared and with whom. It is essential to ensure that it is quite clear who has access to which data. The greater a database is built and the more accessable it is, the greater the risk of accidental use. But we would also like to pursue this in the work of the committee. So, despite the fact that we have a number of concerns, we generally take a very positive view of this and look forward to further work on the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503154059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503154112	Thank you. For a period of time, unfortunately, we have seen several examples of gross failure by health professionals, and in order to minimise this in the future, all parties have unfortunately concluded a political agreement, with the exception of the Radical Left, which is the basis for this bill. The aim of the bill is to strengthen patient safety in Denmark, which the Liberal Alliance considers very important, and that is why we support the proposal. The proposal is quite comprehensive, in fact it is 173 pages, but there are two elements in particular which are of great importance for increased patient safety. Monitoring is transformed into risk-based, where it is currently frequency-based. The bill will organise the visits so that they reflect the risks, so focus on the treatment sites that pose the greatest risk to the patient. This reduces the risk of patients being exposed to treatment that does not meet safety and quality requirements. The treatment centres are divided into five categories, which pay differentiated fees, depending on the size and number of doctors. The cost structure has been a point in the agreement that the Liberal Alliance has not entirely agreed with. We believe that it should have been possible to apply supervision to the current budget and at no extra cost to business of 17.3 million. kr. By focusing on the most risky treatment sites, this should be an optimisation of the supervision organisation and thus the possibility of improvement within the current framework. We are particularly sorry that small single-member companies, such as the United Kingdom, are not in a position to do so. Fed therapists are also charged a fee, and even though during the negotiations it came down to 1.891 DKK. a year, I still think it shouldn't have been there. Another point that is good for everything is that the rules on the withdrawal of authorisation are being tightened up. It is also very important, given the terrible things that have been going on. From now on, a health care professional will automatically be deprived of his authorisation in Denmark if it is taken away abroad, with the exception that the Liberal Alliance is very concerned that the withdrawal cannot take place if it is evident that the reason for the foreign withdrawal would not have led to the withdrawal of authorisation in Denmark. All in all, this bill is of great importance for improving patient safety in Denmark, so although we in the Liberal Alliance are opposed to the fee structure, we believe that patient safety is far above that and we therefore support the proposal. There have been some good and constructive negotiations, and the result is an agreement and a bill that will have a major impact on improving patient safety in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503154415	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503154425	Thank you for that, President. Now it has been mentioned that this bill includes a number of different elements, so I do not need to start explaining them all over again. But, overall, it is, of course, a question of switching to risk-based health surveillance. I shall start by saying, as we have also heard from the others here on the platform, that this is an agreement that has been reached in advance, one can say, and the alternative is included in the agreement, which is why the alternative also supports the proposal. And I should say hello from the SF, who will certainly not be able to come before they themselves are on the platform, and say that the SF also supports. The whole premise for this bill is very much about patient safety. We have heard this sometimes, and we support one hundred percent, that we ensure the best possible conditions for ensuring that we have as good patient safety in Denmark as possible. And I actually think we're doing really well with all the different elements that are included in this bill. One of the things that has not been said up here from the platform, and which I also think is really, really important, is that when you switch from permanent supervision or regular supervision to risk-based supervision, it means that we have greater confidence in the health workers, in other words the health professionals who work in our public institutions. And, of course, to the extent that there is no cause for suspicion, we do not go on as frequent visits as we did in the past. That element of this bill is something that we in the Alternative are really, really happy about. For over the last few decades there may have been an increasing trend towards some form of distrust of our public servants. We've gotten it harder to trust public servants to do their job well enough. And when a few stories come up where it turns out that there are some places where they don't do well enough, you get extra attention; that's clear. But we must be careful that this does not mean that we are going to punish an entire sector because some people are not doing well enough. And I think that in this draft law there is precisely the fact that we, you might say, are going after those places where there are challenges and where we know there are problems. And in this way, our optics restores confidence in the public employees out there. This is an element that I think is really central to this bill, as well as patient safety. And that is why I think it is very good that the Minister has taken the initiative and I would like to thank the Ministry for having worked so hard on this bill. I would also like to say that this is not the only area in our health services where we sometimes feel that we have such a little mistrust of employees. Now it is being corrected in relation to the supervision. One of the elements that we will certainly be looking at a little more closely from the point of view of the Alternative is the whole publication system, which can, of course, show public health professionals, if they violate the Authorization Act, in particular § 17. We have some challenges with this, because I believe that it is part of the same agenda, namely a form of control of public servants. So now that this bill goes in and gives a statement of confidence to the public employees, I hope that you can start to look at it in some of the areas where it may have to be done. But overall, of course, we support the bill, and I would like to say once again that SF welcomes them and that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503154814	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503154824	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are in favour of changing supervision so that, in future, we go for those places where there is the greatest risk of error. However, when we are outside the agreement as the only party, it is because we are opposed to spending more money on hiring more staff at the Board for Patient Safety. Firstly, it is a wrong priority. Right now, the government is forcing municipalities and regions to fire people with the re-priority contribution. Doctors and nurses run fast, and it is wrong that the Folketing then spends money on hiring more people to control. Secondly, and this is the most important argument for me, supervision costs time. This is another task that is imposed on the various departments without money being included. This may not fall over in itself, but if you can put a supervision on top, you can do it with the next and the next. And then we end up in a situation where all politicians scold that there is too much bureaucracy, but forget that each and every one of the tasks has been adopted. We would have liked to have converted supervision into risk-based supervision within the existing framework, but although there are many of us in here who talk a lot about abolishing paperwork and bureaucracy, in this case alone we stand by saying no to more control. The Radical Left will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155004	We have just one brief remark from Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155007	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I take the floor because the rapporteur says that this bill will result in bureaucracy and will cost extra money. At least in my rapporteur's speech I made it clear that there is such a difference between the Radicals and the Socialists that nothing is more important than patient safety. We spend well over 100 billion. kr. on our health services a year in Denmark. Here we have had to find funding of less than 10 million. kr. to public health institutions in order to obtain significantly better, qualified and proactive supervision. And when that is the relationship, I am very surprised that the rapporteur of the Radicals is bringing red tape and money into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155058	When I talk about money and resources, it is not only a question of what supervision costs in dollars and cents, but also the time to spend on it in the individual department.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155113-2	What is after all the change is that it goes from routine supervision, that is, as it is currently running, to just exactly focusing where you see most of the errors, or where you see the greatest risk of mistakes being made. I just think it is very unfortunate, also because the Radical Left has been a very important and constructive party throughout the process from three years ago and looking forward to now, as I outlined in my rapporteur's speech. And then the Radicals say that this will increase bureaucracy and cost money. I don't think that's the condition behind this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155156	Everything that the Socialist rapporteur says about the wisdom of transforming it into risk-based supervision, we in the Radical Left fully agree. That is why I had doubts as to whether or not we should agree to the agreement. What was decisive for me in terms of being outside the agreement was really talking to our local people from the Radicals in municipalities and regional councils. They say that it is of no use that we in the Folketing continue to impose small tasks on them. As I said, I don't think this in itself is gonna overturn the load. But if we think that we can continue to impose tasks on them all the time without the money for time being being included in it, then we all end up in a situation where we are reproaching for the fact that there is too much bureaucracy, even though it is the Folketing itself that has adopted each of the tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155242	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155244	Thank you. I just want to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur believes that we are imposing too many tasks. What are some of the tasks that the rapporteur thinks are contained in this model of supervision that we could do without? Because I understand that the rapporteur would like to have risk-based supervision and to share that starting point with the parties of the Danish Parliament. At the same time, however, the rapporteur says that there are too many tasks in this. What are some of the tasks that could be left out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155311	We wanted supervision to be changed within the existing framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155318	This means, of course, that the Radical Left would have less supervision than all the other parties of the Folketing. And that means that there are fewer tasks. Could the rapporteur not outline what such supervision would look like? What are we doing that is too much today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155338	Well, we set out to do the same exercise as what is being done here, namely to transform supervision into risk-based. But this was to happen within the existing framework, rather than having to hire more people in the Board of Patient Safety, as the rest of the Danish Parliament is now proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155401	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155410	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we support this bill, just as we are in the agreement behind the bill. But I must also say frankly that we have had many speculations along the way. But it's not really because we disagree with the king's idea behind it, namely the shift to this risk-based supervision. Of course, it makes good sense that instead of having these regulatory frequency-based supervisions, which are being carried out today on, for example, nursing homes, make it more risk-based. In other words, you put all the data, and that is for example. Causes of concern, etc., into a large engine and then on the basis of it gets the best idea of where to target your supervision. That makes a lot of sense in all kinds of ways. But there have still been many elements we have asked critically about in this process. It has been a long process; it has taken three years, as rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen, pointed out. I haven't had the pleasure of joining for that long, but I could tell from my colleagues in here that it was almost quite historic when you got this agreement. Compared to these charges, we've asked a lot about the way it's categorized. We have had difficulty in understanding that there should be no greater difference in what it costs to supervise a nursing home, where everything else is equal to many employees, and then what it costs to supervise, for example, a practicing foot therapist who has his own small clinic. We have asked a lot about this, and we also made concessions in the process, and for that we are very grateful. An independent category has been established now that some of these players, which we do not consider to be the very high risk, have been introduced, i.e. the therapists for example. We have asked a lot about whether there are any figures or other evidence that they should be subject to this supervision, but since they have not been supervised in the past, it is by nature difficult to assess the risk. This can be done a little on the basis of figures from the Patient Replacement, etc., but it does not give a comprehensive picture. We have now got them into an independent category, and then we look forward very much to the law being evaluated as 3 years. We will actually have figures on whether there was anything to be done with, for example, these therapists, physiotherapists and so on, and on the basis of this we can assess whether we had the right arrangement of these categories and of the fees in three years' time. We also in the Ministry asked incredibly much whether it was really what it cost to do a supervision, i.e. this $1,891. for the lowest category. And I've been confirmed several times that this rests in itself. No more money is required for supervision than it costs to carry out individual supervision. That is indisputable, as it were, and we have to believe that when it is the assessment that has been made. We look forward to the evaluation and we also look forward to seeing how this agreement will come about, for example in the regions. Will general practice require them to cover this new fee they have to pay? For then there will of course be an expense elsewhere in the system, in addition to the funds we have found in the conclusion of this agreement. So all in all, we are happy and satisfied with the agreement, which we think is a step in the right direction, although we have had objections along the way in the process and so still have things we might wish for differently. But that's the way it is when broad agreements are made, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155756	We thank the rapporteurs. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503155806	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill and the debate here today. Patient safety is an important priority for the government and I am pleased to be able to listen to and also note through the many good discussions we have had along the way that patient safety is something that concerns us all. So thank you for all the statements that have been made today and for the progress we have had, which I also think has been very constructive and which was about finding solutions for the benefit of patient safety. I note with satisfaction that there is broad support for us to provide the Patient Safety Agency with the right tools to carry out effective and targeted supervision for the benefit of patients with the bill here. I have also noted that the consultations we have received from the external consultation on the legislative proposal are generally positive. Unfortunately, we are all aware of the cases that have been raised in relation to the unsatisfactory handling of supervision by the former administration of specific health professionals. There were cases where the Board simply took too long to take action, just as there were cases of maladministration. Therefore, back in May 2015, we reached a broad political agreement on the organisation of future supervision. With the agreement, we took some of the first important steps on the road to better and more efficient supervision. Among other things: We promised each other to explore the possibility of making the Patient Safety Management Board's supervision of treatment sites more risk-based. We had a series of negotiations on this at the beginning of this year, and this resulted in a largely unanimous Parliament taking responsibility for redeploying the supervision of treatment sites. In this way, we can take action where the risk to patient safety is greatest. It is still a mystery to me why a party such as the Radicals chose to be outside that agreement, and I have to say that I did not become much wiser when I listened to the rapporteur's speech by the radical rapporteur. There was something about some re-priority contribution that was supposed to be responsible for getting people fired in the health care system. I mean, this government has raised the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion. kr. This is considerably more than what the radical government partner proposed when it was recently held responsible, and I think the criticism sounds rather hollow. Today Radicals are so opposed to the bill because of something about the fact that no more people are to be recruited in the Board of Patient Safety. That is a strange argument in itself. You want better supervision, but you do not want to hire someone to carry out the task you would like to have done. It ignores the fact that today we have supervision, in which we sort of close our eyes to large parts of the treatment centres, which carry out tasks in our health care, and then we focus very narrowly and very zealously on a tiny part of it. I wonder why you don't want to take responsibility for that. With this bill here, I will implement our agreement to make supervision more risk-based. I will come back to that because the draft law contains more and more. The Patient Safety Management Board must have better opportunities to intervene. The many initiatives reassure me that we are now cleaning up the store a little, and that we are on the right path to provide the Patient Safety Agency with the tools necessary to be able to take rapid action against those healthcare providers who are not aware of their responsibilities. I would like to make a few comments on the individual parts of the bill, and I would like to take first the supervision of treatment sites: action must be taken here where there are most risks to patient safety. That is why we propose to shift to risk-based supervision. It is intended that the Patient Safety Management Board can focus resources on the basis of other relevant data and take action where there is the greatest risk to patient safety. The risk-based supervision complements the Board's general reactive supervision of treatment sites. This means that the Board must continue to respond to all treatment sites where there is a concrete suspicion of a risk to patient safety. However, with a shift in supervision towards being more risk-based, we ensure that the Agency uses resources where the need is greatest. At the same time, we ensure that forces are not tied up to regular supervision of those places where there is not necessarily a risk to patient safety. As the rapporteur for the Alternative also indicated, this can be seen as a joint expression on the part of the Danish Parliament about a greater degree of confidence in our many skilled staff in our common health care system. It is about using the forces where there is the greatest danger to patient safety, and then having increased confidence in those who lift their work really well every day. On the other hand, the publication system, as the rapporteur for the Alternative also mentioned, is not about trust. It is about openness, that is to say, that our patients must have access to openness and transparency about decisions, which are, of course, criticism of serious or repeated negligence. I don't see that information we have to hide from anyone, let alone the patients. So it has nothing to do with trust. This has something to do with signaling openness to those for whom our health services are intended, namely patients. In the view of the government, effective supervision is also conditional upon the Patient Safety Agency having the right tools to be able to take rapid action against health professionals who mistreat and endanger patients. That is why I propose that the rules be tightened so that the Patient Safety Agency will have a better chance of stopping dangerous health professionals. When we tighten the rules, it is also my concern to ensure the legal certainty of health professionals at the same time. Therefore, it is no less important now that the board complies with the administrative rules of the game and deals with matters as quickly as possible. On this point, I believe that we have actually listened to the answers received and have found a reasonable balance in relation to the draft law and its comments. This is, of course, also an issue which I would like to discuss further with the members of the committee in the further consideration of the draft law. As part of the tightening, I suggest that the Patient Safety Management Board get some brand new tools in their range of response options. This concerns, among other things: on the possibility of suspending an authorisation and imposing a ban on professional activities while a case is being examined. As another essential element, I propose that health care professionals should automatically be deprived of or restricted from their Danish authorisation if they have had the right to practise the profession covered by the Danish authorisation curtailed or deprived abroad. The fact that doctors and other health professionals who may be at risk for patients can simply stop travelling from one country to another and treat patients without the supervisory authorities being able to intervene. I also propose a simplification and clean-up of the supervisory rules, so that we have simple and transparent rules for the benefit of both the supervisory authorities and the health care professionals, and I also propose an extension of the Health Data Protection Agency's access to pass on personal pharmaceutical information from the Pharmaceutical Administration Register. I do, among other things. to ensure that the Patient Safety Management Board can obtain the necessary information for their supervision. That is, for example, the case. in situations where the medical record is incomplete or even misleading. On this point too, therefore, the proposal will benefit patient safety. Finally, I would also like to mention that we are proposing a number of other relevant amendments with the bill. Among other things: legislation will reflect that last autumn I took the initiative to set up the Board of Patient Safety as a new independent board. The Patient Safety Management Board has taken over oversight tasks from the then Health Board and the treatment of patient complaints from the Patient Offers. In addition, it is proposed that the term 'official doctors' should be deleted. That was a great deal, I recall, of a completely different draft law from the previous government, and perhaps we need to have a better discussion of the relationship between it and all the other things that needed to be changed in relation to supervision. We will get it done now, but it will not affect the tasks that the Patient Safety Agency will have to perform. The administration will continue to have two decentralised units in Jutland, including: carry out supervisory tasks. With the bill, we are now setting an ambitious framework for future supervision. Now action has been taken behind the words, and with the bill I present a comprehensive package, the overall aim of which is to strengthen patient safety and ensure effective supervision, which can quickly address those healthcare professionals and healthcare providers who do not meet the requirements that can rightly be imposed on them. I am very pleased that it seems that there is broad support for the individual parts of the legislative proposal. I look forward to further discussions and, of course, make myself available for what may be of questions during committee reading. I have also noted that a number of issues have been raised here today, which the members of the committee would like to see clarified further, and we can, of course, continue to do so in committee. But thank you for the nice reception, not least for the good and constructive cooperation along the way towards the draft law's first reading here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160754	There is one question, and it is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160756	I would like to thank the Minister for his speech. I understand from the whole debate here that what has been behind this has been a number of critical cases where it can be said that supervision has not fulfilled its role in exercising control. However, as I mentioned a little in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that supervision is not the sole responsibility of monitoring. Indeed, supervision may also be positive in terms of the quality development of the institutions that are • it is like a way of doing it and it is also something that can help spread good experiences from other places. I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that this is also an important task for supervision, although we say it is risk-based. In other words, maintaining the role that supervision can play in exchanging experience and helping to develop quality throughout the sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160855	I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160903	Sir. Peder Hvelplund? No. That was enough of a question for once. There's no more for the minister. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160922	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503160932	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling a motion for a resolution on the subject. First of all, I would like to make it clear that animals must, of course, be treated properly in terms of animal welfare and that the EU animal welfare legislation must, of course, be respected. At the same time, I recognise that killing by bullfighting is not illegal in all parts of Spain and that there is no EU legislation banning this type of killing either. In fact, the Treaty of Lisbon makes it clear that EU policies must weigh up the concerns of animal welfare on the one hand and respect for the cultural traditions and regional customs of the Member States on the other, which also means bullfighting. Next, let me give you a brief account of the problem raised by the proposal. First of all, it is important to state that the current EU agricultural policy does not provide direct financial support for the rearing of bulls for slaughter by bullfighting. As the authors of the proposal are also aware, the agricultural aid received by breeders of bull calves for bullfighting is indirect aid and is understood in the sense that the basic payment, i.e. the aid previously known as the aid per hectare, is granted to all types of agricultural area and therefore also to the areas covered by those bulls. Such indirect support is difficult to prevent. At one time, the EU's agricultural aid was conditional on or linked to the production of certain products, for example. meat cattle and cereals. Over the last 20 years, however, EU agricultural support has become increasingly decoupled and more and more market-oriented. Thus the aid is no longer linked to specific forms of production, but is given to all agricultural areas and production restrictions such as milk quotas have been abolished at the same time. This is a healthy development, which I believe all the parties in the Folketing support. It is a major step in the right direction that the EU's agricultural support is currently being given to all forms of agricultural activity. In this way farmers can adjust their own production in the light of market demand. It is difficult for me to see how it is possible to establish rules to ensure that the EU's agricultural aid, which, as I said, is granted to all types of agricultural land, is not also granted to producers who breed bulls, which may later be used for bullfighting, especially when the Treaty of Lisbon specifically mentions the consideration of cultural traditions and regional customs, as bullfighting is of course. I believe that it would be contrary to Denmark's general interests to work for such a change in the common agricultural policy. Over the past many years, changing governments have been working precisely for a continued decoupling and market orientation of agricultural aid. At the same time, Denmark risks losing influence in the forthcoming negotiations on the future of EU agricultural aid if the government should actively seek to introduce complex requirements as to which forms of agricultural production can be supported and which cannot, depending on what happens to the product after it leaves the farmer. For these reasons, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but I look forward to the committee reading, where I hope we can achieve a common understanding of this complex issue, and I would like to thank you once again for submitting the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161312	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161316	Thank you. It was a rather defaitistist minister that we were faced with here, more than I had hoped for. Now there are different ways of attacking this problem. You can attack it through agricultural subsidies, but you can also try to attack it in a different way, for example. Directive 9858 on animal protection states that animals must be killed humanely. But that directive also says, and now I quote from the directive, that animals which are to participate in competitions, exhibitions and cultural or sporting activities are not covered by the directive. The Minister could of course consider whether the Minister will work to get that passage out of the directive in question, because it can hardly be said that a humane killing is to be killed in a bullfighter's race. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is a way of tackling the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161415	Thank you for the question. This is a way to tackle the problem. I recognize that. However, as a starting point, I stick to Article 13 of the Treaty of Lisbon and to the killing regulation in the view that I represent on behalf of the government. That is also why, as I have explained here, I reject the motion for a resolution, but I would like to discuss the more complex issue at committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161440	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161442	Now there are many things in the Treaty of Lisbon. Among other things, it says: This, too, of national and religious practices, etc. But is it really, hand at heart, the Minister's view that an old cultural custom in Spain to kill bulls in an arena to moro for thousands of people must be supported directly or directly by the European Union? Does the Minister not agree with the ambition that bullfighting should not take place at all in the 21st century?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161519	Whether this can be done directly or indirectly with aid, I have said in the speech that it is very, very difficult to see where a bull calf, after it has left the farmer's production facilities, for example. Spain, ends up. That is why we are not going along the path proposed by the rapporteur with the resolution. Whether or not I am concerned about bullfighting and about going to that kind of thing, I can say that no, I am not. I do not think this is a humane way of killing an animal, but I respect, as I said in the speech, that things are going on in countries with a cultural character that we respect, also according to the treaties that we agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161609	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161611	Thank you. Now we write 2016, and I can buy the premise that you have to listen to the different cultures, but frankly, the time of bullfighting has been. It is no longer a good idea for animals to be killed in this way, so I think that the Minister should consider whether the time has come to change the way animals are killed. The Minister is talking about his policy, and I know that the Left is very much in favour of democracy. Given that a majority in the European Parliament has now twice voted on this proposal for both direct and indirect support for bullfighting calves through and the European Union itself cannot find a way of following the democratic rules that the majority decides, does the Minister not feel that we should perhaps do so here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161725	Thank you for both a good question and a good reflection on this problem. In the government, we are concerned with following the treaties with which we are bound, among other things. The Treaty of Lisbon. We are, of course, listening to the signals that are also being given by the European Parliament, where we have had votes on it and where decisions and notes have also been made in the adoption of the budget. I have said that with regard to the further examination of the committee, I am happy to discuss with the committee how and how this problem might be dealt with here. It is just important that we have some fundamental principles that we salute and that we recognise, even if we may not always share the objective that they lead to, for example. as in this case bullfight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161810	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161811	It's a matter of what weighs the heaviest. There should be no doubt in the Danish People's Party that we value animal welfare more than respect for culture. Would the Minister not agree that there are more possibilities to change this, among other things? by adding a demand for humane killing or removing the clause that the rules can be waived because of cultural traditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161842	Thank you for the question. I certainly recognise that there may be different possible solutions to the problem, as Mrs Karina Due also describes. I certainly recognize that. That is also why the government is prepared to discuss with the parties of the Folketing during the committee procedure how and how this issue can be dealt with here. I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party, which sometimes has a skeptical attitude towards the European Union as a framework for these matters, can see that the way is to go through an EU track. But if we want to do something nationally from the Danish side, then we must discuss it. And we need to discuss what position the government should take on this issue at international level. As a starting point, however, we choose the path of the Treaties, as we have also explained in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161929	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161931	Thank you. The Minister refuses to follow the Danish People's Party's proposal here and refers to the committee procedure. One might be a little curious to know what the Minister is imagining. Could the Minister be willing to discuss this further in the European Union and take it that way to change it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503161956	Thank you for a good question. In the committee discussion it is natural to discuss with each other what the parties of the Folketing want in this matter. How far do we go? We also have a position on this in the government, but it is clear, as we represent a minority government, that we are, of course, listening to the parties of the Folketing also in the committee discussion as regards the position we have. But of course we also have a roof on it ourselves, and that is what I have explained in my speech. But we are happy to listen in the committee discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162031	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162032	That is, of course, always a good starting point. I would really like to hear what the Minister is saying about the fact that the European Parliament has actually chosen to interpret rules for bullfighting in such a way that they do not comply with the EU Animal Protection Directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162052	I probably do not share exactly the same view as Parliament there, because I am dealing with both the killing regulation and Article 13 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which provides a framework for how we deal with these issues. Of course, I have the impression that countries are complying at national level with good animal welfare practices, which are also indicated in the EU framework. I have a lot of respect for that. We also sometimes have discussions at home where representatives of animal welfare organisations from other countries wrinkle because, for example, we have to be honest. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. After all, there will be some peculiarities in the individual EU countries, on which there is just no agreement across countries. With us, you keep mink. In Spain there is then a policy of bullfighting and there are probably other conditions, such as the rearing of calves, which we can have a critical look at in certain places. That is why we are concerned about raising the whole animal welfare problem in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162153	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162209	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you for the proposal to the proposers. After all, we in the Social Democratic Party always think that it is both good and timely to be allowed to discuss some of the animal welfare issues that are now at issue. Nor should it be a secret that we are a party which, first of all, values animal welfare issues very much, and secondly, while we were in government, we still had the attitude, and so we still have it, that we regard bullfighting as animal cruelty. In other words, we would like to work to limit and perhaps also ultimately ban bullfighting. What we are also referring to is that the Treaty of Lisbon emphasises that animals are sensitive beings and that their welfare must be fully taken into account in defining and implementing certain EU policies. That is why we would like to call on the government here today to take this into account in general terms, on the one hand, when the European Union has to make a general policy on animal welfare and, on the other hand, in all the areas it can patch up. We also recognise the problem or nuance raised by the Minister in his rapporteur's speech, namely that it can be quite difficult through the concrete proposal put forward here by the Danish People's Party to limit the aid per hectare for the rearing of bull calves. That is why, for the time being at least, we are neither for nor against the motion for a resolution, but are waiting for further discussions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162349	There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162352	After all, it is not easy to learn what the Social Democrats think about EU policy gradually. It was also that neither- nor-tactics, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen chose another motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party on Danish welfare in Europe. And that way, we don't get very far, you have to say. But I just want to quietly do sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is aware of the fact that his colleague Mr. Dan Jørgensen to Jyllands-Posten on 23 October 2012 among others. said the following about the bullfight and EU money: "That's what Mr. Dan Jørgensen is crazy to use tax dollars to support bullfighting... bullfighting is cruelty to animals. Anyone who's seen a bullfight can see that the animals are suffering... I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Dan Jørgensen in, and therefore I simply do not understand why the Social Democrats can stand here and say that this proposal will not be supported. Then the Social Democrats must get on the ground and tell us what they want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162455	First of all, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth welcomes the fact that, as a Social Democrat rapporteur here, I am actually coming and being open to how we can now deal with the proposals put forward by the Danish People's Party. He should not be upset about that; he should be happy about that. Secondly, I do not disagree with Mr. Dan Jørgensen in that statement there. I really don't think anyone in the Social Democratic Party is. That was also the line that was drawn, while Mr. Dan Jørgensen was a minister. But we also recognise the nuance that exists and that I think we should discuss further in committee, namely that we cannot just go in and cut the aid per hectare for bull calves when we do not know whether the calves are used for bullfighting or they are used for something quite different. That is the only nuance we are really pointing to. We fully share the view on both bullfighting and the welfare of bulls.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162549	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162550	That is where I am concerned, because it is approaching a free round from the rapporteur. Because, on the one hand, we share the view of the Danish People's Party, but, on the other hand, we will not support this specific approach to the problem. That is what is problematic, because the Social Democrats are not setting another path. The fact is that it is not the European Parliament that can change this. If this is to change, it must come from the national parliaments. That is why you can sit down in the European Parliament and press the right buttons, but this is where the decision has to be taken. This is where the mandate must be given to the Minister for Agriculture or Food at any time. I do not understand why the Social Democratic Party does not go any further and say: yes, we want to go down this road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162632	Well, I kind of think we're clear. Well, we're a party that values animal welfare. We are a party which believes that as far as possible we should restrict or even ban bullfighting altogether, and we would like to be involved in discussing what tools we can use in this respect. But Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth cannot expect that just because he is tabling a motion for a resolution it is the only way forward. That is why I am saying that right now we are choosing to be neither for nor against and awaiting any discussions that may be held in committee. Then we can also discuss various tools there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162705	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162706	I would like to give a little service to the rapporteur: the Social Democratic Party voted in the European Union for the second time to ban EU funds for bull calves in relation to bullfighting. Moreover, all the parties from Denmark represented in the European Union did so. Can the rapporteur see that there is a problem in trying democratically to get something like this through in the European Union and that it cannot be done, and see that perhaps there should be an opportunity for us to push through by going in and adopting such things here in Denmark that might push them to change some of their rules in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162802	I can tell the rapporteur that I am well aware that the Social Democrats voted in favour and voted in favour every time these issues have been raised in the European Parliament. We are not here in the Danish Social Democratic Party in the Danish Parliament and are against it either. In other words, we support all the objectives and declarations of intent that lie in it. The only thing I am just pointing out here from the platform is that in reality the Danish People's Party ought to regard it as an outstretched hand. We do not feel convinced that this is the way to go in and cut the aid per hectare in general in the way proposed by the proposal, and that is why we are awaiting the committee procedure before we make our final position on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162846	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162848	In other words, the rapporteur is willing to enter into a debate on using some other means, for example. to demand that the European Union remove these exceptions, which are provided for in the law, that it is not the case that there is nothing about humane killing and such things? Are the Socialists willing to enter into a debate on taking action in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162921	We are willing to engage in every conceivable discussion that respects what has been the objective of the Treaty of Lisbon, namely that animals are sensitive beings and should therefore also be regarded as such when organising the rest of the European Union's policies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162936	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503162937	Thank you very much. Can the rapporteur not understand why the rest of us may find it a little strange that the anguish of the Social Democrats in the Danish Parliament is apparently not the same as that of the European Parliament? It can be said that the social democracy in the European Parliament is obviously not suffering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163002	The minister. No, I'm sorry, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen hasn't been here yet. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen I thank you for your appointment). The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163008	But again I just have to urge the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to be careful. It is not because we are in deep distress and we do not regard it as a major disagreement with our fellow party members in the European Parliament. We would just like to be sure, before we vote for a resolution in this Chamber, whether it is possible or what the consequences will be. That is why I am expressing a position that so far we are neither for nor against, but are waiting for the discussions that will take place during the committee procedure. However, the objective of doing more in the broad sense in the field of animal welfare and, in the narrow sense, doing more in relation to bullfighting and the welfare of bulls, we fully share.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163058	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163059	Thank you. I lost track, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163113	It's okay. You don't have to ask questions. Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, whom I was about to make Minister. He hasn't been, and I don't know if it's gonna happen at some point you never know. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163139	Thank you. In connection with the debate on motion for a resolution No. B 81 on the European Union's support for bull calf farming, I would like to start by saying that we in the Left believe that animals should of course be treated with animal protection standards and in the Left we therefore, like the authors of the motion, reject bullfighting. However, when we have this proposal today, it is also important to say that the European Union does not provide direct financial support for the rearing of bulls for the purpose of killing by bullfighting. The fact that we can still talk about so-called indirect aid is due to the fact that the European Union is paying agricultural aid to land, such as the United Kingdom. may be used for fattening cattle. It happens that some cattle are later used in bullfights, mainly in Spain. A proposal such as the one we have here would probably mean that we would have to reinstate production-dependent support in the European Union in order to avoid that the aid could indirectly go to the rearing of bulls used in bullfighting. But that would be a major step backwards in the desire for farmers to choose the form of production to be market driven. We see it as very positive that the Catalan Government and the Canary Islands have banned bullfighting, and we in the Left would like the rest of Spain to follow this. We therefore hope that there can be broad agreement in the Folketing to work to send a signal to Spain that bullfighting should be stopped. Like the previous rapporteurs in the debate that has taken place so far, we are also looking forward to having a good and thorough debate between the parties in committee and discussing how we can move forward together on this track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163344	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163346	With the Left, there are a lot of things that are difficult. I understand that, too, and I have some respect for that. But now I understand that Mr. Erling Bonnesen will not support this proposal. Well, that's what it is, but then I just wanted to know how mr. Erling Bonnesen is gonna do this. Well, what is it, sir? Erling Bonnesen imagines that we on the Danish side have to do to get rid of this? I understand that ambition, after all, we agree on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163418	We fully agree that animal welfare must be in order. Nor do I expect to hear anyone saying the opposite. What is then the problem in the proposal here is that if we were to change agricultural aid so to speak, it might have a number of other consequences. I do not think the Danish People's Party is interested in that either. So it is a little bit about trying to have some discussions with each other in committee on how we can try to move forward on this track overall in relation to animal welfare and somehow get some signals sent to Spain that we in Denmark think this is bad and that they should do something about it. But how we can sort out some common track, we need a committee procedure to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163500	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163501	Then we got a little closer. I understand that the rapporteur is thinking bilaterally, that is to say that Denmark must make contact with Spain and tell us what we mean. I can sympathize with that, I think, but that is probably not what changes things. There is likely to be a change in EU legislation. Could you, for example, do that? I think that the Left would support the introduction of the Animal Protection Directive, as I indicated to the Minister, but did not really get an answer to it. It is strange, then, that exactly animals used in circuses and bullfights and such things are not covered by the rules which, moreover, apply to the humane killing of animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163546	As I have also indicated, we are very much in agreement that we do not like bullfighting and that it should be stopped. Then it is a question of finding the common path to it. There is a lot of technology in this with regard to EU legislation and what each country can do, but at least getting a different kind of dialogue with, contact and contact with Spain was something we could try to change. Let us discuss it in committee and see where we can find common ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163612	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163620	Thank you very much. We think that this is a quite sensible motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, with which we can only agree. Bullfighting can rightly be regarded as animal cruelty, which is why the European Union should not, of course, give 1 billion. kr. through the aid per hectare as a form of indirect aid for the rearing of bull calves for bullfighting. We also think that it is time for the Danish People's Party to make its mark on the animal welfare agenda. It is of course very important that animal policy matters are also raised here in the Parliamentary Chamber and that it not only becomes cute animal pictures on election posters around when there is an election campaign. We have quite specifically missed the Danish People's Party very much when we have discussed castration of piglets. We think it is really a pity that the Danish People's Party believes that this is something that should be resolved in the EU and that Denmark cannot go alone. We missed the Danish People's Party very much when Enhedslisten tabled a motion for a resolution that all cows should be on grass, which the Danish People's Party could not support. It is therefore considered that cows are some that should be kept in stables throughout the year. This is unacceptable, and I think it is really, really a pity that we do not have the Danish People's Party with us there. We think it is really a pity that the Danish People's Party is not with us in terms of wanting to ban fixed lakes in the peril. It is an unacceptable way of keeping pigs that they should be fixated when they are given piglets. We very much miss the Danish People's Party when we propose banning fur farming. This is a totally unacceptable way of keeping mink. These are solitary animals that are kept close together in tiny tiny cages with wire nets all around. We also find it regrettable and in fact also incomprehensible that the Danish People's Party has been so active a driving force for the whole agricultural package, which is likely to cause us to have 4 million extra pigs in Denmark in conventional production, which animal welfare is totally unacceptable. So, frankly, we think there is quite a long way to go. And I would like to mention one more thing. Where was the Danish People's Party when we wanted a legal measure against the long journeys of 4 hours of pigs? Where was the support of the Danish People's Party there? So I just want to give a lot of credit for getting on the ground with something that has something to do with animal welfare. I would like us to be able to work together on other animal issues in future, too, to get cows on the grass and on the pigs. We have very, very many of them in Denmark, and there is a lot to do in the field of animal welfare. I hope that we can work together on this, and I also hope that we can do something for the minks, for fur animals, where there is also a really problematic animal welfare. But the Enhedslisten supports this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163926	There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503163929	Rarely have I heard a rapporteur's speech which supports a proposal which then contains such a svada as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding's speech did. I thought that was a little weird, but okay, Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding hasn't been a member of the Folketing for so long. Neither have I myself, but after all I have been sitting in here for 15 years otherwise, and that is why I can just say to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding that many of those things have been touched by the Danish People's Party. For example: We have tabled a motion for a resolution here in the Assembly on the ban on castration of piglets. And we have tabled motions for resolutions on other points mentioned by the rapporteur. In relation to pigs, which basically have nothing to do with this matter, everyone knows that nothing changes in relation to the conditions offered to pigs. Yes, there will be more of them, but conditions will not change. I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten to state calmly that it is probably a good idea if it is the case that you have to work together on some things, so as to keep a slightly better tone instead of just throwing yourself at a proposer, with whom you obviously agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164037	I think it is quite justified to give praise when there is reason to praise that is why I commend this motion for a resolution and criticise it when there is reason to criticise it. And I just have to say that I miss very much the Danish People's Party in the fight for Denmark's many millions of pigs, in the fight for our cows, where more and more people are kept in stables all year long and never, ever come outside, and in the fight for fur animals, for the millions of minks held under totally unacceptable conditions. So I just want to say quite clearly today from the platform that I support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to stop EU support for the rearing of bull calves, and then I hope that the Danish People's Party will join in the fight for better animal welfare for Denmark's many, many farm animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164127	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164132	Yes, but now the rapporteur must understand that if there are two parties here in the Danish Parliament who have fought in a common cause for animal welfare, then it is probably precisely the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten. So, I do not know which of our two parties has made the most proposals in this House on animal welfare, but I do believe that if Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding goes home and counts within just the last 5, 8, 10 years, she will come to the conclusion that we have probably made about the same number of proposals. We certainly also have an ambition on behalf of animals. It shares the Enhedslisten, and I think we should join forces rather than stand and throw mud at each other. It serves no purpose and is not in the interests of the animals at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164218	Well then, I look forward to and hope that when we retable the proposal that cows should go to grass, when we grab the castration of pigs, when we take hold of the ban on fixed lakes in danger wards, and when we will soon try to put fur animals on the agenda again, then this time the Danish People's Party has brought along. It will only please me very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164242	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164249	Just as Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states, which deals with animal welfare considerations in EU policies and mentions respect for Member States with regard, inter alia, to: cultural traditions, in which bullfighting is regarded as an essential consideration, the Liberal Alliance does not believe that Denmark or the EU should interfere in the cultural traditions of EU Member States or other countries as long as they do not violate human rights. I am pleased to note that several regions in Spain have already banned bullfighting, and I note that, although they have the possibility of doing so, Spain has not established a national coupled support scheme for the rearing of bull calves for bullfighting. The aid received by Spanish farmers does not go directly to the rearing of bull calves for bullfighting. The Liberal Alliance would like to see a greater degree of genuine free trade in the world, while at the same time the EU's agricultural support could be permanently abolished. Until this happens, however, the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that Danish farmers are no different from their European colleagues. Now that there is agricultural support in the European Union, I am pleased that the vast majority of EU support is now decoupled under the basic payment scheme, so that all agricultural production can receive the same support, thus controlling the form of production from the market. It would be a step backwards in the desire for farmers' choice of form of production to be market-driven, to re-introduce production-dependent subsidies or production restrictions. With these comments, I can say that the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164456	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164458	There's no way to accuse Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach for having jumped out of the closet like the big animal friend in that case. It almost sounded like sir. Carsten Bach sees an animal as such a kind of machine, and there are then some rules, and if you follow them, everything is good, and so it doesn't matter whether an animal is lured into an arena and killed to moro and pleasure, I don't know how many thousand people. I don't understand. But it may be a view of the world that I do not share with Mr. Carsten Bach. But let's start with that, sir. Carsten Bach says, starting with Article 13. If you saw, as Mr. Carsten Bach, says, must respect that they on the Spanish side have a passion for bullfighting, how can it be that Danish taxpayers should be involved in financing this? It is not usually the cup of tea of the Liberal Alliance that Danish taxpayers have to finance anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164554-2	I certainly do not agree with the questioner's interpretation of me as an animal friend. I regret to say that was quite a misinterpreting that was done there, I feel. But I would just like to say, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that cultural considerations are possible here and that we do not really believe that Denmark should interfere in any way with what they do in Spain in relation to their cultural traditions. And in relation to the taxpayer's payment, there is no direct aid. As the Minister and other rapporteurs have explained, it is also quite difficult to change this arrangement with the rules that we are probably all very happy about as they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164652	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164653	I get that. What just puzzles me is that the Liberal Alliance is otherwise such a party that guardians for itself every time taxpayers have to pay for something or when a contan aid recipient has to have money: oh, we cannot. But obviously there is no limit to the amount of money that Danish taxpayers must contribute in order to fund bullfighting in Spain. I simply do not understand that. Why is it a cardinal point for the Liberal Alliance that Danish taxpayers are helping to fund bullfighting in Spain?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164728	As I also explained in my rapporteur's speech, the Liberal Alliance would like to see a greater degree of free trade, and thus we would also like to see the EU's agricultural aid completely abolished. Since it is not possible at this stage, we believe that the basic payment scheme is quite reasonable and we want Danish agriculture to follow it, just as we want Spanish agriculture to have the opportunity to do so when it is so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164803	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164812	Thank you. The first thing I thought, when I saw this proposal, was jubii, now I can wear my bullfighter's suit in the Folketing, but unfortunately it is 10 years old, and I have a little changed body shape since I got it, so I have to put it aside. In fact, I think this proposal is really, really good. This raises a number of questions, which are also very fundamental, about what we take into account when we talk about animal welfare. Is it the life of the beast, or is it the death of the beast? It is also in principle, in relation to what we want to use public funding, including EU agricultural aid, for. We would like it to be used much more actively to bring about a transition to organic farming, but this raises a number of issues which are actually interesting to discuss and which I hope will also be part of the discussion in committee, so that we not only look at it so closely that it is just about bull calves in Spain, but that we really have a discussion about how we view EU agricultural aid in relation to animal husbandry and what requirements should follow there. I think that something important in this proposal is also to support our democratically elected institution, the European Parliament, which has actually voted on it here and made a decision that they would like us to go this way, and the Council of Ministers has then chosen not to follow that recommendation from Parliament. Of course, I think we should support this from the Danish Parliament. So all these words were actually just to say that we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503164950	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165012	We have a great deal of sympathy for this proposal and I fully share a number of the more fundamental considerations about bullfighting that have come from colleagues in this Chamber. It is clear that some practical problems can arise, if I may say so, about demarcation and so on. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen mentioned, but I should be surprised if it turns out that it is totally impossible to deal with. As far as the European Parliament is concerned, it has also dealt with this matter, as far as I know, fairly thoroughly, and as far as I can see, it should be possible to do so. In fact, we think that is a sensible way. It is not the case that bullfighting is banned; that is not what is at issue here, but that an economic means is being used for it. That is what I know the Left is very concerned about in other contexts, i.e. going in and regulating the market in different ways. Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen a book about for approx. Twenty years ago, and it is not unreasonable to use this method of regulation. If that can be done, if practically possible, we will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165131	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165150	I don't like bullfights very much, and when I was a little boy on vacation in Mallorca, I was in the middle of seeing a bullfighterrena where I disgusted at it. I am also the type who finds pleasure in watching YouTube videos with bullfighting in the case that this is a clipping of scenes where the bull gets revenge and hits the bullfighter. Who doesn't agree with these animals that are being plagued like this? I think it is disgusting to look at it as a nasty hobby, but I would say to the Danish People's Party: this is not connected. The Danish People's Party always strikes at national self-determination and respect for the culture of the nation states, and then the Danish People's Party proposes that the EU, as another cultural imperialist, should push down universal cultural standards on Spain. Objectively speaking, bullfighting is one of the least animal welfare problems one can address. It is a very small number of animals, and despite the unpleasant death, the animals have all seen a much better life than for example. the Danish pigs for fattening. So it's very selective just to address this animal welfare problem, and it's alone because you have a cultural norm that this sport is not going to be accepted. I think that the Danish People's Party must decide whether the European Union should be this great moralizing mother or whether the European Union should not be. I know how the Danish People's Party would react if the EU came and wanted to interfere in, for example. laughing catch. There are also many of them, and I think there may be just as many people to judge by the number of mails we have received here in the Parliament as internationally disgusted by looking at. I also know where the Danish People's Party has stood. It has been clearly stated that foreign countries should not interfere in the way in which catches are made in the Kingdom of Denmark, and the same must, of course, also apply to cultural standards in Spain. So, however much I and the Conservative People's Party oppose bullfighting, we must have greater respect for the nation states. We must not accept that we are simply in favour of national self-determination and national culture as long as it is used in a way that suits us. We must also respect it when it is used in a way that does not suit us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165426	There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165428	I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is busy in his everyday life. There are no longer so many members of the Conservative People's Party here in Christiansborg, and he may therefore not have had quite time to read the resolution, although it is relatively short. After all, the proposal is not about banning bullfights. The proposal is aimed at eliminating the aid per hectare granted by the European Union for bullfighting, which is, in fact, what can sustain bullfighting in Spain. At least there are indications of this in the report called Toros & Taxes. So I'm not up to that at all. The Spaniards must decide for themselves what they want. I just don't want Danish taxpayers to pay for this circus. And I don't understand that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov doesn't agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165519	It is just a bad excuse for interfering in this way with the motion for a resolution. We have some agricultural aid that we should abolish. This is true in general terms; we should not have that at all. But when we have it, it is not an excuse for selectively going in and interfering in exactly the bullfight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165538	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165541	I think that the master of bad excuses is Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov. In fact, I had the impression that the Conservative People's Party, in search of a new conservative profile, namely a green profile, had become a party that was environmentally oriented and perhaps also oriented towards animal welfare, although I freely admit that I have not heard of any resolution from the Conservative People's Party on animal welfare. But I have to understand that this is not the way to go in the Conservative People's Party. Or maybe it's a new idea you have about what profile you're gonna have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165615	It's not for nothing that Detector has baptized, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth Parliament's bulldog. I can understand his newfound interest in animal welfare, which I believe he has been pressured into by his group, because this is completely contrary to the European Union's line, which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth usually shows off. Then it is very good to talk about the fact that you cannot understand the EU policy of others, but those who are completely incomprehensible in this matter are the Danish People's Party, which cannot decide whether it is animal welfare or cultural self-determination that is the most important thing for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165643	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165644	Thank you very much. Hypothetically, if the aid provided by the European Union were to be removed, would Spain be able to continue to have a bullfight?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165658	Yes, Spain wanted that. However, it would be strange for the European Union to go in and interfere with it and to decide selectively that objectives which we support and which do not conflict with our cultural standards should be given agricultural support, but that objectives which we oppose should not be supported. Then we would somehow go in and subsidise on the basis of universal standards that we would push down over Spain's head. And that would be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165726	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165727	But is it so strange that you want a little control over what the money you give out to something is being spent on? It is certainly a very natural thing, and one does not come from Denmark and dictate that Spain should not have bullfighting; one simply says that the funds that go through the European Union should not be used for this. Moreover, there is no indication that the grink killings are receiving EU support either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165757	Well, you can make all sorts of excuses for why you think it is right that the EU should interfere in bullfighting or not, just as you could give all sorts of other reasons why the EU could interfere in grind killings in the Faroe Islands. If there were some MEPs sitting down in Spain who also had some sort of agenda to want to strengthen animal welfare and thought that laughing killing was wrong, then they could easily put some sort of scheme together, where you went in and fought it out by somehow fiddling with quotas, subsidies or something else. You can be creative and do it. But the key question is: should the EU interfere in whether or not Spain has a bullfight? And the Danish People's Party also knows that that is the purpose of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503165850	Thank you, sir. President. See, in the summer of 2014, I was in Barcelona. It was like a wonderful journey: nice weather, nice people and lovely food. We also had time for a small family trip in Las Arenas on Plaça d'Espanya. Had I visited this place in 1977, it would have been to watch one or more bulls live to enthusiasm and moro for thousands of Spaniards. Now Las Arenas is a shopping mall where you can enjoy yourself together in a completely different peaceful way. Since 2011 it has been prohibited to have bullfighting in Catalonia, and the Canary Islands have also adopted a ban, but unfortunately bullfighting is still a reality in many other parts of Spain. Animal protection associations estimate that at least 40,000 bulls die every year in bullrings around Spain. These are animals that are bred for the sole purpose of being killed to entertain people. And the bull doesn't stand a chance. Before a bullfight, the bull's horns are shredded so that it cannot defend itself properly against the matador in the ring. The bull is held in total darkness and is stabbed at the same time with spears to provoke it to display the sought-after aggressive behavior inside the arena. Probably inside the arena, the bull doesn't stand a chance. It's just about humiliating the animal and then killing it. It is a barbaric custom which does not belong anywhere in the 21st century, and it is a barbaric custom that Danish taxpayers help finance. Of course, not with our good will, but with the EU's aid per hectare, the rearing of bull calves is supported by more than 1 billion. kr. a year. According to the report "Toros & Taxes" it is also a support that helps to keep bullfighting alive. If the EU did not support the rearing of bull calves for bullfighters, the bullfighting industry would be on its way to rabunding. The European Parliament has twice, with the support of all Danish Members representing all parties in the European Parliament, adopted calls for the European Commission to ensure that EU funds are not used directly or indirectly to support bullfights or activities involving animal torture. This is among other things. After the discharge has been given to the EU's accounts. However, the EU's finance ministers have not followed up the resolution with action, and the European Parliament can only express Parliament's opinion, not impose Parliament's views. And in this case, it must be said to be a shame. More than 40,000 Danes signed a petition in 2015 to stop bullfighting. This appeal was listened to by the European Parliament, but those who can really do something are in the national parliaments and in the governments around the Member States. It is we here in the Folketing who equip the government with mandates for how to act in the European Union. We have the opportunity here today, and when the motion is put to the vote in Parliament, to send the clear message to the government that we want this kind of animal abuse stopped; that we do not help Denmark pay for animals to be killed for the sole purpose of entertaining people. I understand that the Minister is very difficult, among other things. because agricultural aid has been decoupled and released from production restrictions, as stated by Article 13 of the Treaty of Lisbon, because respect must be given to Member States in respect of religious rituals, cultural traditions or regional customs for which bullfighting is included. In other words, because the Spaniards have been tortured animals for years, we must accept it, and yes, we must not only accept it, we must also pay for it. I don't think the Danes understand that, and I don't think animal friends understand that. I have to say frankly: I think it is much more important to get rid of the aid for bullfighting than to avoid a debate on this in relation to the agricultural aid schemes. When it is the European Union that is really keeping the bullfighter industry alive, as the report mentioned earlier points out, the European Union also has a tremendous responsibility to do something about it. It may well be that you have to look at production restrictions, but it may also be that you have to attack them in a completely different way, for example. by looking at the directive on animal protection and whether it can really be true that certain animals are exempt from the rules on humane killing, just because they are part of, for example, humane killing. Bullfight, acting or something. But it is also living creatures that are involved, animals that lose their lives every day for the sole purpose of entertaining people. Denmark has informal cooperation in the EU with a number of other countries that are progressive in the field of animal welfare. You could, for example. As a government, go to these countries and ask whether we can do something about this together. But when I listen to the Minister today, it is as if it is not an option. In the European Parliament, it is quite easy to sit and vote for these things. This does not have much practical significance, because the Council can simply ignore the decisions and have done so. No, the litmus test comes to the Assembly Hall. Here it should be shown who really believes that the important thing is to get rid of the vile form of animal cruelty that bullfighting is an expression of, and who thinks that it is easier just not to tilt the boat. Therefore, on behalf of both the Danish People's Party and the animals, I should like to thank the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Socialist People's Party for their support for our proposal, and at the same time inform Mrs Zenia Stampe that the Radical Left also supports the proposal. Bullfighting appears for the first time in history in the Gilgamesh bag. During my trip to Barcelona 2 years ago, I drove past Barcelona's largest now happily abandoned bullfighterrena, La Monumental. At that time it was unused. Today it is designed for a bullfighter's museum. That is where bullfighting belongs: in a museum, not as live entertainment in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170541	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170554	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for putting forward this proposal to address the animal abuse that is taking place in Spain. I just need to hear what it takes to get the Danish People's Party to engage in the animal welfare of cows and cattle at home. I have read on the Danish People's Party's homepage in particular that the Danish People's Party believes it is natural that cows should come to grass. Therefore, I cannot understand that the Danish People's Party does not support the Enhedslisten's proposal that cows should go to grass. Is this something that the Danish People's Party wants to reconsider, so that we also take an interest in the animals we have here at home and who, in fact, do not feel well about standing on stables all year round?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170630	As I also indicated to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding when Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding was up here, surely there are not two parties more than Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party have stood up for the welfare of animals, indeed it should be the Socialist People's Party, which I think should also be taken off the hat in this respect. I have to say, however, that when it comes to suddenly embarking on other specific proposals, I must respectfully refer to the rapporteur who is in this area, Mrs Karina Due, and not go into it myself. Because there can be all kinds of reasons for that. I am the European rapporteur and I have this proposal because it is a proposal which concerns Danish European policy. So I have to refer to Mrs Karina Due in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170712	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170714	But I would very much like to continue the discussion with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in this area. However, I have to say that I believe that everyone following this debate understands it as if it is primarily about animal welfare. I think it is also important that we should then be free to discuss animal welfare and what we can cooperate on in the field of animal welfare. Because all animals are important. It is not just those in Spain who are important. After all, we also have a great responsibility for all the millions of farm animals that are at home in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170743	I do not disagree at all with Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding in that. After all, there is no doubt, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding has also found out by quoting from the Danish People's Party's Work Programme, that this is something of great concern to the Danish People's Party. However, in relation to a specific proposal from the Enhedslisten, which I am not aware of on a stand-by basis, it is very, very difficult for me to enter into a debate on whether that proposal should be supported or not to be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170808	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170811	Thank you. I have had a little difficulty in finding out how to deal with the Danish People's Party's point of view in this matter, because you could choose many approaches. However, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party and indeed the Enhedslisten believe that the European Union has an important role to play in this area too, in order to ensure better animal welfare around Europe and that we do not allow ourselves to be slowed down by national borders, but believe that we in the Danish Parliament should have a position on what is going on in Spain. One must then just assume that there could also be some in Spain who thought that some things we do in Denmark were something that they should interfere in. But I assume that the Danish People's Party will also think that is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503170904	I can at least reassure Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen by saying that people must have opinions about anything and that people are also allowed to express those views. When we take up this case, it's all about us Danish taxpayers helping to fund this circus. We are helping to finance bullfighting in Spain; we are actually helping to keep it alive. If it were not for the subsidy granted by the European Union to these people per hectare, it would simply not be possible to keep the bullfight industry in Spain alive. So, I think, it is perfectly reasonable and entirely legitimate to ask: why on earth should Danish taxpayers help to keep animal cruelty in Spain alive? I simply do not understand that, and I also believe that there are a great many Danes who simply do not understand it. So, one thing is that Spain can decide what they want to do down there, but another thing is that we should actually help to subsidise it, that we should actually help to support it. I just don't think people understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171000	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171002	In other words, Danish agriculture now also receives a dime in agricultural aid, among other things. then paid by Spanish taxpayers. That's how the system works. After all, it is not the case that Denmark is funding the whole project in the European Union. The other Member States also pay, and then you get according to what you have in agriculture. And then there has been bullfighting in Spain for quite many years before the European Union was even invented, so could it not also be possible to find a way around it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171032	That is the question. Because if we look at the actual figures, it is so that it is something that is too downward; it cannot, if you may say so, run around by itself. In fact, it can only run around because there is subsidisation on the part of the European Union. We can then say that Danish farmers also receive support, but there are no Danish farmers who drive their cows into a Danish stadium and kill them in there, while Danish spectators clap enthusiastically. Fortunately, I still have the benefit of seeing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171106	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171120	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mattias Tesfaye, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171142	Thank you for the floor. With this bill, we are fulfilling 923 of the desire of our neighbours, colleagues and family members to be able to call themselves Danish citizens. In addition, their 365 children are now Danes. On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would like to offer my warm congratulations. We look forward to sharing both the duties of citizenship and the rights of all of you. Danes can be found in many colors. We are now a multi-ethnic society. It's not good, and it's not bad either. It's just what it is. One should not believe in a certain god to be a Dane, nor should one eat anything special or dress in something special or otherwise be, feel or believe anything special. But you have to know something special: You have to know Danish because Danes talk Danish together. And you have to want something special: respect and respect the Danish constitution. I also said all that when we granted citizenship in the autumn, but since the autumn Denmark and the Danish Parliament have been through a wide-ranging debate on Danish asylum and integration policy, which is why I would also like to add something: direct contact with citizens who are now also citizens. I say this from the platform because I know that some of you are following: the country in which we live together and in which you now all have the right to vote is, as you know, in the midst of an important discussion on how we should maintain cohesion and the welfare state on the one hand, while meeting our humanitarian commitments on the other, and, moreover, how the many refugees arriving in Denmark should be integrated into our community. Integrating people from foreign cultures into a Scandinavian welfare society has proved to be harder and more expensive and associated with more cultural conflicts than most had imagined. My own father never calmed down in Denmark; I have experienced myself at the nearest level how difficult it can be to replant a human being. Culture probably binds us more strongly than most of us recognize. My father ended up going home when he got the opportunity. There are plenty of such unhappy stories about failed integration, but there is also the opposite. Today's bill should be 923 examples of the opposite. Many of you are the very example of how it can be done; that we can cope with the challenges facing our society. I would therefore ask you to interfere in the discussion with your colleagues, with your neighbors, with your family, tell about your way here to Denmark, about how you learned Danish, and especially perhaps about how you got a job. Now it is not only your right to help control Denmark, it is also your duty to add your own experiences to the joint discussions. In conclusion, congratulations to all of you who have worked hard to get your name on this bill. I hope to see you at the next citizenship day here at Christiansborg. Of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171433	Thank you for the floor. I would say that it is a little unfamiliar for me here on the platform to say that we support this bill, but we do. And we do this because this bill follows the guidelines on citizenship that we entered into with the blue parties and the social democracy, in relation to proper conditions for ensuring that the people who acquire citizenship are Danes of the heart and want Denmark. You can always ask if you can measure the Danishness on a formal basis. I think you can try. I never think that people like Abu Bilal, the Imam of the Grimhøjmosque, should have citizenship. I simply do not understand why he has had it. But you could start with, if you measure, among other things. to make sure that people speak properly Danish and really know something about Danish society. I mean, it wasn't really there. It should be perfectly obvious that this was the case. This has been the case once, but it is not the case for some parties. For example, did it work? The alternative, citizenship would be thrown into grams, for they seem to think that it is evil and gement to make demands to become Danish. It is as if they welcome the Hippie Collective Denmark with open doors, where the whole world is invited to green tea and biodynamic vegetables, in a real hallelujah humanist spirit, where everyone is invited to stay and spend the night this year and eventually become permanent residents, where they begin to change the interior design. It is clear that when you just want to be oh so good, so good and sunny in your own goodness, so it drifts like thick syrup down the walls, then it has a price, and that price pays the Danes. If we from the Danish Parliament help to create a parallel society of citizens who can neither Danish, know anything about Denmark, never know anything about Denmark, Denmark will not, if we contribute to such a systematic destruction of Denmark, then the future generations will pay the price. Then we have failed our task, then we have failed the Danes, then we have failed Denmark. That is why, of course, strict, reasonable and proper demands must be made if you want to be part of the Danish family. We would have liked to have made more stringent demands, but we stand by the agreement we made. So we say yes to the bill and welcome the new citizens into the midst of the people. We welcome the fact that, unlike just a year ago, these new Danes can speak properly Danish, know something about Denmark and hopefully the Danish society will, because that is what is meant by it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171827	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503171835	Thank you for the floor. In any case, I can reassure the House that, when you are a rare guest of Mr. Christian Langballe in his office, not being served green tea or any biodynamic. There is a guarantee of that. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for voting in favour of the bill this time. I think it is gratifying that we have managed to find a very broad solution covering a wide range of parties, from the Social Democratic Party across the middle to the Danish People's Party, which agrees on a number of criteria for how to become a Danish citizen. It is gratifying that it should no longer be such a dispute where we must stand and discuss it is, in fact, what we are doing ■ whether a lot of individuals should have citizenship or not. Today we are talking about a total of 1,288 people. It is 923 adults and 365 accompanying children who receive citizenship with their parents. We saw at the latest at citizenship day, when we had over 2,000 guests who were gathered in a huge tent down here in the palace square, how big a party day it is for those people. Some have waited a very long time to become Danish citizens, and now they finally succeed in obtaining their Danish citizenship, and they are very happy, and they are very grateful. I think we should be proud as Danes that so many would like to be part of our community that so many would like to take part in our country. This, of course, requires, first and foremost, that we know our language. It's weird to meet a Dane at some swimming pool in some resort and then couldn't talk to him. That is why it is a perfectly reasonable requirement to make, and it is also a reasonable requirement to make the people who want to be Danish citizens contribute and that they do so through work and that, moreover, they do not have debts to the public or have committed serious crime, etc. So we are happy today that we see the first result of a citizenship law, which is primarily according to the new guidelines, and that we can welcome a lot of new Danes. Finally, I would like to congratulate the many people who are on the bill. I will not read out the names, because I think I will go beyond my speaking time, so many of them are. But a great congratulations to all of you, each and every one, welcome in the circle, welcome in a lovely country, Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172111	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172124	A year ago we dealt with a bill on citizenship, L 188 called it, with 3,314 names on it. When there were more than 3,000 names on the bill at that time, it was due to the fact that the Enhedslisten, together with the Social Democrats, the Radicals and the SF, had relaxed the excessively strict rules in the so-called circular on naturalisation in 2013. It is the circular which lays down the rules on who is to be included in a bill on the notification of citizenship, who should have submitted their case to the Committee on the Rights of the Parliament and who should be refused. Then the many cases at L 188 are due, not least, to the fact that in 2013 Enhedslisten managed to press the then government to hire many more staff in the Ministry's birthright office so that it waited thousands of cases that were lying waiting to be dealt with could be settled. So the majority of the proceedings of 14 to 16 months, as notified to the applicants, did not go into the file but were in the waiting file. The basic attitude of the Enhedslisten was, and is, that 14-16 months are quite obscenely long, so we pressed the S-R-SF government to do something about the processing time, and the number of employees in the Ministry's birthright office increased from 25 in early 2013 to 85 2 years later. Now it's different times. Today we are discussing a bill on citizenship notification with 923 names on it. A year ago, it was 3.314. The only 923 names are primarily the result of the agreement reached by the Social Democrats and the Right in October 2015, which tightened the requirements for Danish citizenship. Since the 2015 elections, several have been refused because they do not comply with the new rules, and several have been refused because the majority of the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Nation has voted against granting them an exemption, even if they had one or more long-term functional reductions, which have meant that there is one or more of the requirements that they do not meet. It has become harder to become a Danish citizen, and the group of people living in Denmark without Danish citizenship is growing. In 1979 it was 2%. of the population, today it is 8 per cent. A society in which a large group of citizens live without full civil rights is not linked. It is a completely distorted development that leads to the opposite of integration, the opposite of community. I would like to end with a congratulations. The vast majority of the 923 people in today's bill, namely 817 people, have had their cases dealt with in accordance with the new strict rules. They've slipped through a needle's eye that's gotten smaller. Congratulations. I should also like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172500	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172504	Well, I don't know if the right-wing thing is meant for me, but I've always liked the word, so it won't bother me the most. What I really want to know is because I've asked Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen sometimes is just: Is there any requirement at all to give Danish citizenship by Enhedslisten? I have never heard in the time I have sat in the Folketing that Enhedslisten has said no. Everyone's gonna be there. definition have citizenship? Do the 100,000 refugees, who hopefully will not come, but who may come towards 2020, have citizenship when they arrive? Well, I'm just asking because it might be very nice to know where the limit really is, because I've never heard Enhedslisten say anything about it, even in terms of requirements and conditions. Should you even be able to speak Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172604	If sir... Christian Langballe has asked Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen several times, I think he is also well aware that we in the Enhedslisten are happy to make demands, but that we believe that those demands should be reasonable. And that is not the case with the austerity that has been done here. There the demands have been made far too tight. And what that means is that we have a society where there is an A team and a B team. How you can imagine yourself from the Danish People's Party that it benefits integration and cohesion and all the words that you run around boasting and clapping yourself on your shoulder, I do not understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172642	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172644	So, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has said exactly what the rapporteur is saying now. Of course there must be demands, but she has just never said what it is for some requirements. And that's what I really want to know. Because I am fully aware that if it were for the Enhedslisten, you opened the floodgates, and then you invited the 60 million refugees in, if possible. And then they were given citizenship afterwards. But I'm just asking from a reality point of view, because Enhedslisten is also very unrealistic in many other areas, and lives a little..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172728	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172729	I think it is primitive, and I think it is uncool, and I do not think it is constructive for this discussion that such postulates are made that Enhedslisten will remove the borders and invite 60 million refugees to Denmark. What kind of bullshit is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172753	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172757	Thank you. I would like to continue where the previous questioner left off. What are the requirements of Enhedslisten to obtain Danish citizenship? Do you think there should be language requirements and, if so, which ones? Do you think there should be a requirement that the applicant has not committed crime? And if you mean it, what kind of crime do you think should be ruled out, that Danish citizenship can be granted? And is it considered by Enhedslisten that the applicant should be self-supporting?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172829	I do not think it comes as a shock to the House that I am not the rapporteur in this area, and Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen was not able to take part here today, so in relation to the details of our view of what it takes to become a Danish citizen, I think we should ask the questions to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur as soon as the opportunity presents itself. I am sure that this has been done before, and I am sure that you have an idea of the answers, and then I think you should put them back in the position of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172855	I was just so happy to see a new face on the platform, and since we have tried to get the answers out of Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen many times, I thought it might be when there was a new rapporteur on the platform that one could actually get an answer out of his mouth. But then let's forget the details. Does Enhedslisten think that there should be a requirement that you can Danish at some level? Does the Enhedslisten believe that there must be a claim to some level that you have not committed some form of crime? And does Enhedslisten believe that there should be a requirement that one is somehow self-supporting or has been for some time? I am not going to hang the rapporteur on any details, but I just want such overall answers to the questions about language requirements, no crime and self-reliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503172945	In the Enhedslisten, we think it's good to make demands. In relation to the details of the demands to be made, I simply have to refer to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area. But we are in favour of certain requirements and reasonableness. What is happening and I would like to repeat that when you tighten as you are doing right now, so we are creating a society where there are some citizens living in this country with fundamental rights other than all of us, is that an A team and a B team are being created. And it is not beneficial for integration, and it is not beneficial for the cohesion that we all want. So you pull in the exact opposite direction of what you claim to be doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173021	Thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and the next speaker is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173029	Thank you. We should remember that the aim of giving citizenship to new Danes is to do so on a basis so that one can have a reasonable assumption that they can become part of Danish society, that they can manage in the language, that they can be integrated, that they can manage at the workplace, and that they know and also want to pursue the values on which Danish society is based. That is what is intended, and that is why I actually think that, with regard to this particular meeting and this bill, there is reason to welcome the fact that a new agreement has been reached which extends across the centre of Danish politics. For this area has been subject to change, whether there was a red majority or another majority, and therefore there is good reason to commend the Social Democrats for taking the co-responsibility that has been done in connection with the last agreement. We could, of course, be teasing to say that it was time for us to get the Social Democratic Party wrestled out of those red claws on the left, but let it be today, and let us then just rejoice that it stretches across the middle, and that we can therefore be confident that such an agreement, whose content makes it possible for there to be a reasonable expectation that integration can actually succeed, and that it is thus to the satisfaction of both the people and society that it can also last after a possible choice, where it can happen that the pieces are being moved around. And that is perhaps the best thing to be able to say here today, namely that a line has been drawn which, I hope, will be maintained if the parties that have concluded the agreement will stand up to their responsibilities. We can already see the effect of not dragging around with as many cardboard boxes as we have done, because there has been more sense in the whole procedure, and let us hope that it will also be enough after a choice, so that the new Danes can count on the rules that are, instead of what we have seen, where suddenly it happened, that all the locks were opened, and then when they were tightened up, it was absolutely terrible. It is actually unfair to the people involved, and it should be remembered that there are people at the other end of this legislation. Therefore, it is actually a day of joy, and therefore it is also with satisfaction that I welcome the new Danes who are on this bill and whose background makes it possible to say that they have a reasonable presumption that they can become a sensible part of Danish society. So welcome, and congratulations on citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173303	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173314	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate all those who have now come to the draft law on citizenship. How much it means, we got a very clear idea of when the Folketing celebrated the citizenship day. In the alternative, we asked those who visited us in our little room to write on a piece of paper, which they especially enjoyed by having become Danish. Becoming a part of democracy goes back to many of the answers. Society, respect, community and equality are other key words, like recognition and inclusion. One writes: It means a lot. Respect for Denmark for having embraced us and now made us part of the country. We're more than grateful for everything. Another writes: I am proud to have the Danish passport all around the world. The pride appears as I pull my passport out of my pocket at every airport. Many write: I have a place to call home, a future for my children. After all, the future of children is precisely what makes a great many asylum seekers risk their lives on the road to Europe, because there is no future for children where they come from. Some just write one word: security, dream. Humor's not missing. One writes: Red sausages. Another expresses it very precisely when it says: Being 100 percent involved in all aspects of Danish society. It also goes back many times that when you are in a country, it is important to be integrated, to have the right to be part of Danish society: to be recognised for the country I feel is also mine. But the most touching answer comes from Olivia in 14 years. She writes: Being like others. Imagine that we want children to feel outside the community, not to be really Danish like the other children, because the demands we make to their parents are so high that they cannot meet them, even if they have done everything to integrate, feel Danish and would like to contribute everything they can to Danish society. When it does not succeed, all the many Olivias feel that they do not belong, that they are not like the others, and then it is that parallel societies emerge and that young people become easy prey for the extreme environments that would rather let them in and make them feel welcome. The whole idea that one should earn to be Danish by being able to speak the language at a high level and pass a test of citizenship which many members of the Folketing would not be able to pass is totally detrimental to integration. It seems that Mr. Christian Langballe knows the alternative's views better than ourselves, but let me at least sign that he has a sense of humor. The alternative will, of course, make some demands for Danish citizenship, among others. That you have lived here for a certain number of years, and that you want to Denmark but not the demands that are being made today. Why would Olivia, for example? Wait 14 years to be allowed to be like everyone else? Only the psychologists will benefit from that. But until we change the rules for the granting of citizenship, I would like to welcome the fact that, once the bill is adopted, we have had a whole series of new Danish citizens who have beautifully expressed their delight in having become Danish. So welcome and congratulations. By the way, I should like to welcome the SF and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173721	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173734	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the alternative for the reception that you, as a party, gave to the new citizens. I think it was a very good idea that you had, with these post-it patches you had to set up, and I agree that it is some touching messages that the rapporteur read out. I would also like to ask the alternative something that I also tried to ask Enhedslisten about: if the alternative together with Enhedslisten had 90 mandates, perhaps also along with Radicals and SF, from which greetings are passed on to the platform, what demands should be made to obtain Danish citizenship? Because on Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, it sounds as if no demands should be made at all, as long as you are in Denmark and live in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173825	Thank you. The alternative is that you should have been in Denmark for a number of years. It can then be discussed how many years you should have been in Denmark. If you have the skills, you will learn Danish, but many do not actually have the skills, because we have had an integration policy for a number of years, which has been completely insane. So people have been kept for 3 years before they could even enter the surrounding society. It has not had to learn English or Danish, and they have not had to take any work. We all know that people who come here to seek asylum have been asked: who will take care of you? And in the first six months, they say, we have to do it ourselves. And after the first six months, they say it has to be society. We have simply disabled many of the people who came, and after that we cannot demand that they now have to learn Danish and learn something about Danish society. We do not think it is okay that some children should not have the same conditions as other children. So if you have a permanent stay in Denmark, your children should also become Danish nationals from birth. It is of no use that they should wait to become Danish citizens until their parents have learned enough Danish or can pass a citizenship test. Unfortunately, my speaking time has now expired, but I hope I have given an impression of where we are about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173943	Thank you. The joke.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503173949	That is a very clear impression, I would say. I hear that if you settle in Denmark as a foreigner and have children, those children must automatically have Danish citizenship. And I hear it as if you don't know Danish, there's probably a reason for it, and that's why you have to be able to get rid of the claim anyway. So, as I hear it, there must be almost no other requirement than that one is on the matrimony of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174022	Of course, children should only be able to become citizens if their parents are permanently resident in Denmark. If a refugee comes from Syria and applies for asylum in Denmark and has a child, it is not the case that this child should automatically become a Danish citizen. But I do not think it is fair that we should expose some children to being different from all other children. It is a huge burden for children to feel that they do not belong in the country where they grow up. After all, the children are Danish and are also fully integrated. Why should they not have the same conditions as all other children? I am particularly concerned about the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174055	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174101	There is simply something I do not understand in the recitals, because what the rapporteur outlines was, in fact, what was introduced in 1983 under the famous refugee law. Then we had that thing with free choice on all shelves, and that one could just come and so on. etc. Then the premise of the rapporteur must be that these people must then be better integrated than they would be if people who come and want Danish citizenship were to be required. It must simply be the case that if you do not make demands, people learn Danish, and then they just become good and decent Danes. But that's not the reality. It has nothing to do with reality. What has changed is that we are beginning to make firm demands that if you want to be here in Denmark, and especially if you want citizenship, you have to be able to speak. But the rapporteur does not think we should be able to do so. I cannot understand how you can participate in a government of the people if you do not know the Danish language or how you can relate to politics at all if you do not know anything about Danish society. I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174213	Now there are also Danes who are not very good at speaking the Danish language. For example, I have. a late-developed daughter. I'd like to know if Mr. Christian Langballe will take her right to vote in parliamentary elections from her, because she is late and cannot necessarily understand politics, because she cannot. I'll talk to her about it, and she can understand many things, and she's linguisticly good, but she doesn't have the skills we're going to require, or as Mr. Christian Langballe will demand for Danish citizenship. It is not all Danes who can answer the questions that we demand you to answer in order to become a Danish citizen. I cannot answer them 100%, and I do not think I am a worse Dane for that reason. I think we need to make some demands that people can reasonably meet. And if you have stored them yourself in a place where they have become more and more sick and have gotten harder and harder to learn Danish, for example. Because they suffer from post-traumatic stress, we should not then come and say that they should not be allowed to become Danish citizens either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174316	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174318	I can't believe it. Well, isn't there a difference between being a Dane and becoming a Dane? Isn't there a difference between being born a national and being granted citizenship? What are we even doing here? What are we discussing? Granting citizenship means, of course, that we make certain demands on becoming a Dane, and these are requirements that must be met. But I understand that the refugees who come down from the rainstorm and come up here seem to be almost traumatized by not getting citizenship. Well, we're actually taking them in. We've taken them. That is to say, the rapporteur believes that the people per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174402	I do not think they have the right to citizenship. I think we should give them citizenship when they come to stay in this country. We know that they cannot return to Syria. We know that they will live their entire lives in Denmark. Why, then, do they have to live as second-class citizens in Denmark because they cannot pass a citizenship test and because they cannot learn Danish at an adequate level? I do not think that one should deserve to be Danish. I believe that people who have come to Denmark and whom we have given the right to live in that country should have the full right with all the rights that belong to being a Danish citizen. Yeah, I mean that. There's no difference between being born here or coming here if you live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174438	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber. So the next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174458	I can be brief. I would just like to thank you for the very kind treatment in this Chamber. I am, of course, very pleased that there is complete agreement on this draft law, albeit some, I understand, because I want us to have some looser and more lax rules in this area. But now it is the case that a majority has meant the opposite, in other words that obtaining Danish citizenship is something very special and must therefore also be treated as such. It is not a human right to have Danish citizenship; it is something to earn. I believe that this is done by means of the rules implemented by a majority. But we can certainly see that it is a joint Parliament that will vote in favour of this bill. I find that gratifying, because the granting of citizenship is something very solemn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174556	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174601	It is simply to clarify the principle and I hope that the Minister can help me with it. It may be that the Minister can actually convince the alternative which I think will be very difficult with his remarks. But that may not happen today. But I would like to know whether it is true that the rule of the Constitution that citizenship is granted by law means that it per. definition is not a right, but a gift that the Folketing gives people on behalf of the Danish people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174645	I simply cannot agree more. And as I said myself just now, it is not a human right to have Danish citizenship; it is something very special and something to earn. But that it should be something, sir. Christian Langballe and myself should be able to convince the Alternative of this today, I simply do not believe in it alone because there are only 40 seconds left, and that simply does not extend to my teaching skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174716	Thank you for your answer. We can then say that it may be that it may happen before the sun burns out. I don't think so, but we have to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174726	It certainly takes longer than the 40 seconds I have left here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174730	The next question is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174735	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister, contrary to Mr. Christian Langballe heard me say that I do not think it is a right to be granted Danish citizenship. I believe that, for the sake of integration, we should allocate it. Although it is not a right, I think it is best for Danish society that we grant Danish citizenship to the people who already live here and make them full citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174759	I must apologise to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. So I do not think there is much difference between that interpretation, sir. Christian Langballe gives of what Mrs Ulla Sandbæk said and what she said. I can only say that I have a vertical disagreement with Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174820	I'm aware of that. I have no further comment to make on that. We have our differences, and we can be good friends anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174825	That's what we can do. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174843	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 May 2016. I shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur on the questions put to us, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, for explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503174916	Thank you. The reason why we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to call a question debate is a population projection from Danmarks Statistik, which shows that by 2050, over 1 million people in the population will have an immigrant background. We believe that it is pushing Danish culture, it is pushing our language, and it is pushing our traditions. In short, it pushes everything that binds us together as people, as Danes. It is simply at risk of jeopardising the community that we have, both socially and culturally. So the background is the fact that the proportion of immigrants is growing rapidly, and it is no secret that the Danish People's Party wants further tightening of asylum and immigration policy in general. It would be nice if it could come out of today's debate. In any case, we hope that it will be possible for the parties to express their concern that non-western immigration is increasing and that immigration in general is increasing a great deal. We look forward to hearing the Minister's reply and the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503175014	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503175026	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors very much for this question about precisely as was also said the development of the proportion of the population with an immigrant background and its consequences, culturally and economically. The question is extremely relevant in view of the integration challenges that Danish society faces. The questioner refers to Denmark's Statistics population projection for 2015. This population projection will be the basis for my answer. The population projection shows that by 2050 there will be over 1.1 million immigrants or descendants in Denmark. This corresponds to just under one fifth of the population. Of these, two come out of three immigrants and descendants from non-western countries. Today there are more than 700,000 immigrants and descendants in Denmark. That's about 12%. of the population. However, it is important to distinguish between different types of immigrants. Many well-qualified immigrants work and earn money here in Denmark. They contribute to the Danish economy. But it is not good enough that only one in two immigrants from non-western countries are in employment today, compared with three out of four Danes. It is also true that immigrants who have lived in Denmark for 10 years and for some 20 years. And it is not good enough at all that only three out of ten refugees are in work after three years. It is therefore important that we make demands on refugees and immigrants. The requirement must be for all citizens in Denmark to be able to support themselves and also to be able to use the language, regardless of their background. Another important requirement must be that the refugees and immigrants who come here respect Danish fundamental values. These are values that mean that we in Denmark have complete equality between the sexes; that girls and boys, women and men are worth equally, that we live in a democracy and that we all enjoy the right to both think and speak freely. We can also draw what we want, regardless of political or religious beliefs. However, the common values are being challenged in these years when we are experiencing violent cultural clashes. I am aware that the best way to avoid cultural clashes is to ensure that the refugees and immigrants who come to Denmark get Denmark under the skin from day one. If you want to live in this country, that must mean putting medieval attitudes on, for example. equality on the shelf, no matter where you come from, no matter what your religion dictates. The government is therefore pursuing a consistent immigration policy to ensure that Denmark opens up to those who can and will and close the doors to those who do not want to. The Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party have, together with the Left, introduced the integration service, making it less attractive to come to Denmark. And this makes it more attractive to get a job and also much more attractive to learn the language. With the same parties, the Social Democratic Party has also made a number of other significant changes in the area of foreigners. Firstly, in November 2015, we adopted asylum package 1, which provides the authorities with a number of new tools to deal with an increase in the number of refugees and migrants entering and staying in Denmark and to ensure the maintenance of order. Thus, asylum package 1 introduced the possibility of derogating, inter alia, from the principle of equal treatment for men and women. in particular cases of asylum accommodation, to increase access to detention rejected asylum seekers, and at the same time to introduce shorter time limits for departure and a more consistent use of reporting and residence obligations. Secondly, in December, we adopted a legislative amendment allowing transporter responsibility to be implemented when travelling to Denmark from a Schengen country, if Denmark introduces temporary border controls. Thirdly, in January of this year we had asylum package 2 implemented, which contains some very significant restrictions in the area of asylum and migration, in order to make it significantly less attractive to come to Denmark. One of the elements of asylum package 2 is that access to family reunification for foreigners with temporary protection status is, as a rule, postponed for three years, including, as a starting point, the payment of a fee for, among other things, foreigners. the submission of applications for family reunification. In addition, the rules on obtaining a permanent residence permit have been tightened, which also has an indirect impact on the possibility of family reunification in Denmark. Asylum Package 2 also means that children's families in expulsion positions can no longer be accommodated in special accommodations associated with or outside asylum centres and that asylum seekers cannot move in self-employed accommodations associated with an asylum centre. In addition, the rules on the inclusion of refugee residence permits have been tightened and, in addition to those parts of asylum package 2 requiring legislative changes, the government has taken a number of initiatives that do not require amendment of the law. Thus, the government has implemented, among other things: a limitation of the duration of residence permits for refugees and the abolition of the extraordinary asylum advice. And since the government considers it reasonable that foreigners who want family reunification in Denmark themselves pay for the journey here, the system of State payments for the transport of family members to resident refugees has also been abolished. I believe that these austerity measures must have an impact on the number of foreigners who apply to Denmark, but, of course, the number is also linked to the situation we are in the world around us. At the same time, the government has tightened up the requirements for the acquisition of Danish citizenship. Thus, in the new agreement on citizenship of October, we have tightened the language requirements. We have tightened the rules on self-reliance and the waiting period for applicants who have committed criminal offences. Furthermore, the new agreement on citizenship means that in future applicants will have to document a knowledge of Danish social conditions, Danish culture and history with proof of having passed the new citizenship test. In addition, the agreement contains stricter requirements in relation to the content of medical certificates which may form the basis for exemption. Tightenings mean, inter alia, that in future applicants with mental disorders, including ptsd, must obtain a statement from a specialist in psychiatry or another person with a medical background based on prior psychiatric assessment of the patient. At the same time, the government will ensure better integration • integration, which means that much more refugees and immigrants will get to work and fewer people will live in parallel societies. Let me begin with some of our actions in the field of employment. We need to be much better at getting new refugees and families together more quickly into the companies, both because the refugees have to make a contribution to Danish society while they are here, but also because we know that it is absolutely crucial for the refugees' integration into Danish society that they enter the labour market where they meet Danes, Danish values and Danish languages. I would therefore like to acknowledge that the social partners, as well as the National Association of Local Authorities, have concluded two very ambitious agreements with the government, which make the integration effort much more employment-oriented. We have agreed that all new refugees and family members should meet as a job preparation, while at the same time the municipalities are obliged to give new refugees a business-oriented effort, at the very latest 1 month after they have arrived in a municipality. This will be of great benefit to the individual and to the local community. We have also agreed that Danish teaching should be more job-oriented, that language centres should be given stronger incentives to get refugees into business, and that education should be organised more flexibly so that it will never stand in the way of the student's ability to do a job. Finally, we propose that much more Danish education should take place in the workplace, where the companies themselves will be able to organise the teaching themselves. Too many immigrants and descendants live in ghetto areas today. This is unacceptable to the government, and it is unacceptable to Denmark, in my opinion. Denmark should not become a society in which people live divided according to their ethnic background or their religious background. Many bets are in progress, and it goes the right way in several places. Although estimates of ghetto areas from December show a decline from 31 to 25 ghetto areas, there are still major problems. We see new residential areas that turn into ghettos and other areas that do not move at all in relation to the parameters that we measure. That is why the government will draw up a plan to improve the social and physical efforts in the ghetto regions and break with the creepy trend of parallel societies, and unfortunately we see that in several places. We do not want closed ghetto areas, where the dishes turn away from Danish society, and where religious preachers and other dark men thunder against Danish society. Denmark is a free and democratic society, and if you do not like it, you actually have the freedom to leave the country. Nobody's holding on to these people. The government is therefore in dialogue with the Danish Parliament's parties on how to make more effective efforts against radical religious preachers and anti-democratic religions. We're gonna have to, among other things. look at the possibilities of depriving religious preachers of public recognition, and we also need to look at what we can do to prevent hate preachers from coming here, and we need to criminalise statements that are incompatible with Danish legislation. There is nothing we are afraid to look at, and there is nothing we are afraid to investigate, and that is why we must also give ourselves time and opportunity to discuss this between the parties. The government wants us to recognise Denmark in the future too for the things we uphold: freedom of expression, democracy, equality and responsibility for the community, and we need to make it quite clear that when you come to Denmark, you have just come to a country built on a foundation of freedoms, a foundation that generations before us have laid, precisely a foundation of freedom of religion, of freedom of expression; you can say what you want, you can draw what you want, you can have complete equality. And on top of that foundation, you can build your own life. You just can't break the foundation, and we have to be extremely precise about that. The government is therefore pursuing a consistent immigration policy and will ensure better integration, where far fewer refugees and immigrants are outside the labour market and where fewer live in parallel societies. But that also means that we must have the will to do so. Against this background, I welcome this question and, as I said in my introduction, I think it is extremely relevant. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503180352	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503180405	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. In the Danish People's Party, we are increasingly concerned about the fact that the proportion of immigrants is growing rapidly. This will change decisively with the country we know and love, and development will inevitably lead to more parallel societies, and it will also inevitably create new social and cultural tensions among the various communities in Denmark. The latest demographic projection of the population composition from Statistics Denmark shows that by 2050 there will be over 1 million immigrants and descendants in Denmark. It will affect our identity, and it will affect Denmark as a linguistic and cultural entity. We simply run the risk of the country falling apart, in the sense that we will increasingly split up according to ethnicity, language and culture. That is not what the majority of Danes want, I dare say. In the Danish People's Party we believe that it is unrealistic cultural as well as economic to include such a large population growth in society. This is among other things. That is why we believe that refugees should not be integrated but should be helped temporarily until they can return home, because if we start integrating the many refugees with a non-western background that comes here, we know that they will end up here permanently, and that will inevitably mean that the proportion of people with a non-western background in the population will increase. If we want to preserve the social and cultural cohesion, further tightening of asylum and immigration policy in general must be implemented. This view should actually be able to embrace all parties in Christiansborg, because wherever you are in social policy, in distribution policy or for that matter in defence policy, we should be able to agree in this House to look after what binds us together as people, and it is our language, it is our culture, it is our traditions, it is the people's regime. It is for good and evil the result and the sum of our history. Should we not agree to acknowledge it and then agree to take care of it? Looking at the problems and challenges of integrating all those who are already here, we simply need a sharp slowing down of non-western immigration, particularly immigration from Muslim countries, if we are ever to succeed in creating just a fairly well-functioning integration somewhere in the future. And then we will have to understand that there is or there should at least be a difference between immigrants and refugees. Our conclusion in the Danish People's Party is that the number of immigrants is simply too large for such a small country as Denmark. We cannot integrate or assimilate all those who come. The task is simply too insurmountable. There are many examples of this. There you can, among other things. Emphasise TV 2's documentary broadcasts • The Danish mosques as one of the latest examples, but we also see time and time again how Denmark changes its character to become a more divided society, where we see that Muslim special rules are increasingly gaining ground. We see how social control governs the lives of young girls and even how municipalities and associations organise their so-called integration programmes. We experience how Danes in certain parts of Denmark feel like strangers in their own country. That cannot be right, it should not be right, but unfortunately that is how it has become. It sounds violent, of course, but I think it should be said. In fact, we are witnessing a beginning of the replacement of the Danish population, and the reality is that in several places in Denmark the original Danish population has, in fact, already been replaced. We see it in ghetto areas, we see it in different parallel societies in Denmark. We want to counteract this by the Danish People's Party, and that is why we have raised this debate, and that is why we have already helped to implement a number of restrictions in the area of asylum and aliens, and we also have a number of proposals on the way through the Folketing, among other things. rejection of asylum seekers at the border, abolition of the green card system, introduction of the Australian asylum model, etc. These are all proposals which basically serve the purpose of keeping the countryside together, the increasingly hard-pressed homeland. We hope that today's debate will result in the parties recognising, on the one hand, that immigration is too violent, especially the non-western part of immigration, and, on the other hand, recognising that if something is to be done about it, there must be a policy aimed at reducing at least the non-western part of immigration, but, as I said, I also think, and we in the Danish People's Party think that immigration as a whole is actually too violent. Last year it was approx. 80,000 people who were granted a residence permit in Denmark. Those are huge numbers. On behalf of the Left, Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a consistent policy on foreigners must continue to be pursued so that no more parallel societies arise. The Folketing wants all citizens in Denmark to respect Danish culture, Danish traditions, fundamental democratic principles, freedoms and gender equality. Against this background, the Danish Parliament notes that initiatives must be taken which help to combat anti-democratic and extremist environments. Against this background, the Folketing calls on the government to work towards a general reduction in non-western immigration, especially the part that does not contribute positively to Danish society. • V 49).
ParlaMint-DK_20160503180921	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There are brief comments. The first is from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503180932	I very much agree with the rapporteur that numbers mean something and mean a lot, but there are also people who are already in Denmark; their children will be in Denmark and their grandchildren will be in Denmark. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this debate is not going to be about reducing the number, and I agree with him that it should also be going on another leg, namely that of integration. If this debate is to make sense, is it not necessary also to discuss how we ensure that people who are in Denmark and will be here for generations are integrated into Denmark? Does the rapporteur have any idea how integration will be part of ensuring not only that we limit the number that comes to Denmark, but also that those who are then in Denmark and will be in Denmark will be part of this society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181037	Integration can only work if we have a reduction in the number. Well, that is the prerequisite for it to be good in any way. That's like point one. Paragraph 2 should be that we learn from the mistakes we have made in the past, and it has been to believe and live in the error that many of the people who come here from countries and cultures that are very far away from Danish culture and Western culture have been able to find their way into Danish society. Unfortunately, we have to note there and it would be nice if it were not the case that this has not been the case for a large part. That is why we see many of the problems that were uncovered in TV 2's documentary, that is why we have ghetto areas, etc., and that is why we see stories about swimming pools rolling down the curtains before girls with Muslim background will come in and participate in swimming lessons. It is simply because some people find it difficult to adapt to Danish society, and therefore it is extremely important that we say that those who then come here and get a residence permit as refugees are here temporarily until they can return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181139	Well, that didn't really answer the question I asked. We agree that the number means something in order to ensure good integration. But what is the Danish People's Party's view of how to ensure this integration when you cannot use the answer that we have to make sure that fewer people come here as a solution for the people who are in Denmark? How to ensure that the people who are in Denmark become part of society? I miss an answer from the Danish People's Party and therefore it might be that today the rapporteur would reveal what the Danish People's Party will do to integrate these people into Danish society, thus ensuring that they receive an education and ensure that they enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181226	I am almost tempted to say that we cannot really do more, because we have done a great deal for decades. We have made special subjects in primary school, we have made special mentoring arrangements for vocational training, we have spent millions, yes, billions of kroner on various integration projects. We've really done a lot. I think I have to say that we have reached where we have to conclude at some point that we cannot do more. The problem is that many of the people who have come here do not want to be integrated. And there we have reached the realization in the Danish People's Party: No matter what we try to push them towards Danish society, they stand, if they do not want to be pushed towards Danish society, where they stand. They don't want to be part of society. And that is why it is so important to limit the flow and the number, and to ensure that those who, for example, are able to do so. Coming here with refugee background, is here for a temporary period until we can send them out of the country again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181314	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181318	I will then follow it up from where Mrs Trine Bramsen ended. The rapporteur says that we cannot do more. I also understand the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur does not believe that we should initiate the integration of refugees and family members who arrive this year and came from last year, for example. Syria. Now we know about the Bosnians who came here in the 1990s, that a large proportion of those who came into employment went home when there was peace in the Balkans and that that proportion was greater than the proportion of those who did not enter employment in Denmark. So is the rapporteur not undermining the intentions of the Danish People's Party to ensure repatriation if we do not get people in employment in Denmark, so that we avoid them growing firmly on the couch?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181405	We can discuss the possibilities for them to get into employment, but the point is that today the system is built up in such a way that it is all designed for them to be permanent here in Denmark. Such is the whole system of reception of refugees built up today. They are going into employment, they are going to the municipalities, the children are going to ordinary Danish primary school, one must in every way become part of Danish society. So the whole system is designed in such a way that they must be here permanently. If you change that system and make sure to emphasize, among other things. With the proposal that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats have jointly had, for example, that they should: We must be in refugee villages or state units for a number of years, so it will help to emphasise that this is a temporary aid measure. It can then be discussed if they were in such a refugee village that during the period they were there there there should be an opportunity to participate in the Danish labour market. You could sort that out. But the basic point from here is that the whole system is built up in such a way that we keep saying to them: This is your new life, this is your new life, you can stay here, you have to start a family, you end up being here for the rest of your days. And then it is clear that we will never send them back home again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181516	In other words, the Socialists also want more of those who have come here and only have a temporary residence permit to return home if possible. That's what we're talking about. Eventually, after a few decades of refugee policy, we can see that a proportion of those who come here and get asylum will eventually be granted an unlimited residence permit and thus have to live in our society. Would it not be smarter if the Danish People's Party, too, could support the fact that for the people who came here and were given asylum, an integration programme was launched which intended that they should have education, get to work, learn the Danish language, in short, be integrated? Would it not be better than what the rapporteur says about us not being able to do more and giving up? Would it not be better if we in the Folketing once again tried to put ourselves together and tried to find out what it takes to raise the employment rate a little, to raise the level of education a little, to improve the Danish level a little? We can't just give up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181613	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181614	Nor do we give up in the Danish People's Party. We're working hard on them being here temporarily, and then we can send them back home. It's not giving up. It's trying to turn the whole system upside down. I understand that it is a little uphill, even when you look at how the majority of the parties in here view the matter, but nevertheless it is the policy, and that is the way we want to go. So, a little squarely, until the end of the 1990s, there were not major integration programmes for refugees. That didn't go very well. The majority of them ended up in Denmark; they did not return to their homeland. Then it began to change, and from the late 1990s and up through the '00s, more integration and integration programmes for refugees began gradually to develop. It didn't work very well either. It was not the case that employment increased slightly, but it did not make any difference, nor was it the case that all of them suddenly began to return. So this thing about insisting that they should be here in Denmark, insisting that they should go through a lot of integration programmes, we have tried, and unfortunately this does not have the desired effect. That is why we in the Danish People's Party insist that they should be here for a temporary period. Then we help them all we can upgrade them so that, when they return to their homeland, they can help rebuild it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181722	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181725	Thank you. In fact, I did not expect to be surprised, but I was nevertheless a little surprised by the rapporteur's speech here. For it is quite clear that the Danish People's Party fears parallel societies on the one hand, but on the other hand, by refusing integration in such a way helps to create parallel societies. Now the rapporteur was given a question about the fact that when the number matters, it is partly because we have to be able to integrate those who come. We are in complete agreement on this. But the Danish People's Party does not want integration, and then one could say that one or the other number is not so crucial. If people are not to be integrated, but just interned and sent home, then of course it matters how many you can intercept. But what surprised me was that you can work. Then there is a danger of learning Danish and becoming integrated, and then it doesn't really start to stick together for me. So you're allowed to work... I have to understand at the Danish People's Party... but you just can't be integrated. Is that how it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181829	In other words, if we are to integrate all those who are here in Denmark and who have been here for 10 years, 20 years or 30 years, and who have not been integrated, then it is probably very sensible to say that when we have the experience we know that if people, for example, are not integrated. It is very, very difficult for them to integrate into the Danish society that they and those countries should be able to reduce immigration and influx from the countries concerned, so that there will be no more, so that we have little time to integrate all those who are already here, and also to ensure that those who will then come are only here temporarily until they can return home. In fact, I think that is common sense. Unfortunately, the Socialists continue to cling to the fact that it is possible to integrate the many people who come to Denmark, but on what lessons are they based?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181913	This means that the Danish People's Party believes that integration must not take place. But the same people that we should not integrate are allowed to work. Then they risk learning Danish while working. They risk making some Danish friends. Yes, they risk what we all want, yes, not all of us, but some of us, namely that while they are here, they also become part of society, because we think it is healthiest both for them and for society. So can the rapporteur explain to me the opposite of preventing people from being integrated on the one hand and allowing them to work on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503181954	I think it is relatively simple. There is no ban on making friends on the part of the Danish People's Party, including Danish friends. This is entirely legitimate and if the Danish People's Party had 90 seats, we would not ban it. Then there are some parties that have said that they think that when refugees come up here, they have to enter the labour market. It is not a wish we have had in the Danish People's Party, but we have said that if, for example, it is a wish we have had in the Danish People's Party. If we are to find a compromise, then we can find a compromise on it. In other words, if the Danish People's Party's policy towards refugees were implemented one hundred percent, it would be the case that when you entered Denmark, you would be placed in a temporary centre. There are plenty of things to be done at such a temporary center. There are practical to-dos etc. You can help with that, and then you can work at that center. If that is the case, then you can find a job in society, then we will not rule out the possibility of taking that job. But the point is that you live in a center, and everything that's built around you isn't integration. It is a repatriation programme which is about returning to the country from which you came so that you can rebuild it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182049	Thank you. The next question is Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182054	Thank you. Now I tried very hard to see if I could find anything I could agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. In fact, I could, because the rapporteur mentioned that we should fight against the anti-democratic forces in society, and we in the Enhedslist are in complete agreement with that would be a very good idea. I just can't quite understand why it has to be mixed up with all this talgymnastics with non-western immigrants and stuff like that. Could we not just draw a line and say that we want to fight the anti-democratic forces in society? I don't suppose it has anything specifically to do with where people come from. So anti-democrats are anti-democrats, whether they come from non-western countries or not, and that is the task if we are to talk about cohesion and Denmark as a democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182138	So I get a little worried when a representative of the Enhedslisten says they agree with me. I don't know if that's an expression of my need to tighten up a little bit. We can always consider this at a meeting of the parliamentary group. But the point is that being a part of Danish society goes deeper than being a democrat. It is incredibly important to emphasise. One can also say that Denmark existed before we got democracy in Denmark. So being Danish, in my view, goes deeper than being a democrat. Being a democrat is part of being a Dane, but it is also much more. It is also our language, it is our culture, it is our traditions, so it goes deeper than that. And if you mean that we in the Danish People's Party mean that what helps to bind us together as Danes and as people, and which is part of the strength of Danish society, is that we have common cultural standards and some common traditions, then it is for us to see what is the foundation and sum of our history. That is why it is not enough to go down and vote in the general election every four years, so that you can be well integrated into Danish society. It's deeper than that. That is what we are trying to communicate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182253	I can then reassure the rapporteur by saying that the consensus found did not extend so far so that the rapporteur can calmly return to the Danish People's Party. I understand from the rapporteur that there is apparently a difference between non-Western anti-democratics and Western anti-democratics, and I can then inform the rapporteur that it is not there for the Enhedslisten. We regard anti-Democrats as the problem. Whether they're not western or western, we don't take too much. The problem is that they are anti-Democrats and that is what we want to fight. And there I understand that there is a difference between us and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182328	It might be interesting to hear this and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur then has the opportunity to explain when Enhedslisten's rapporteur comes up here • Whether Enhedslisten agrees with the Danish People's Party that what binds our society together is of course our democracy, but that it is also our culture, our traditions and our language. It might be interesting to hear if Enhedslisten agrees. Because I should not hide the fact that I think it could be a thin round if what bound us together as people was that, as I said before, we go down and vote for the parliamentary elections once every four years and, incidentally, happen to live in the same geographical unit. I therefore believe that belonging to a popular community should go deeper than that, and that is why we are so concerned about the rapid growth of the proportion of the population that has an immigrant background, because it challenges the foundations of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182414	The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182418	Thank you. After all, when social democracy, like the rapporteur's party, is concerned with reducing the number, it is a question of real integration of the people who have come to Denmark as immigrants or refugees. I was elected in Southern Denmark, in the same great circle as Mrs Marie Krarup, who visited Varde Municipality on the other day, where I noticed that I worked. She saw that there was a local villager who spoke of it as something positive that the empty housing in rural areas could be occupied by or inhabited by refugees. This led Mrs Krarup to say that she thought it was an unpleasant view of people that it was in this way a positive reference was made to the presence of refugees and refugees. I think that this kind of statement is counterproductive in terms of integration and would like to know whether the rapporteur supports those statements. In fact, I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether it is such a special Danish People's Party style that volunteers are being attacked that make an effort in terms of integration. Is it good to make a positive contribution to integration at an international level, or is it the expression of harmful national activities that a North Jutland DF has shown to have expressed itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182544	I therefore agree that it does not serve the great purpose to start placing refugees in the villages around Denmark, and I do not think that this will lead to an improved integration of the people who are coming, for the simple reason that there are simply too many. So, the Danish People's Party does not want to say that if there is an empty house in a given village, it is positive that there are refugees moving in there. That is not the policy of the Danish People's Party. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182618	Is it an unpleasant view of people to have that view, and is what the Friends, for example, are doing in their integration efforts nationalist activity? In other words, what I am asking here is what the rapporteur's position is on those people who are making an effort to make integration work at the international level, who are taking on a task locally. Is it positive, or is it negative? Is it an unpleasant human vision? Is it a landscaping business?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182648	I have not taken part in the debate in question, but I will go so far as to say that I certainly do not think it is a harmful business if you rent your house or apartment as a private landlord to people with refugee backgrounds. So I'm not saying that. I am saying that I see no reason why refugees should move into empty houses in the Danish villages. I really don't see any reason for that. And I am aware that it is also the policy of the Socialist Group that central units should be set up where refugees should be, at least for a number of years, before they even come into the municipalities. It is then the policy of the Danish People's Party that they should be in the relevant refugee villages, state units, or what they will be called, until they can return to their country of origin or to another country. This is the policy of the Danish People's Party, and I do not suppose it comes as a surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182734	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182738	Thank you. I stumbled over a video with mr. Martin Henriksen is from a summer wearing a black polo shirt. I think it's busy out in Dragør. It's about the fact that sir... Martin Henriksen warns against the fact that refugees live very close to a children's institution. According to this video, it's supposed to be harmful. Does the Danish People's Party have any evidence of this, and how many metres do you have to live from an asylum centre before it is not dangerous for the children concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182807	All I know is that there are many parents who think this is an insecure situation, and I think we should try to take that into account. Anything else would be weird, I think. After all, it is the parents' children who go there, so let us take into account what the parents have of sights on it. I think that's a good idea. Then it is also the case that asylum seekers are more criminal than Danes on average, and there is the fact that we regularly hear statements that many of those who come with refugee backgrounds are highly traumatized. And in fact, I think that all these are good arguments for not placing such a miniastyle centre close to several children's institutions. I don't think you should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182846	I'm asking because sir... Martin Henriksen says in the video and it says in the text on Mr. Martin Henriksen's facebook page says it has gone too far several times. Now I understand it's because some of the parents don't like it. Are there any examples of this going too far in relation to refugees living close to, for example, a kindergarten or a crèche?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182904	So, unfortunately, I do not have a list of all the forms of crime, asylum seekers or refugees committed in Denmark, but we do know - of course we know that the rate of crime among certain groups, especially with refugee backgrounds, is higher than it is among other groups in Danish society. We know that factually. If you then find that there are some parents who are insecure about the situation, and you can see that some of them are coming here, and we hear this on a regular basis, which is very traumatised, then I think it is very reasonable that they should not be placed at a disadvantage. But we have also seen other examples around the country, where municipalities have decided that older citizens should be moved around; they must find another place to live, simply because there are now refugees who need to take advantage of those homes. I think that is quite simply, yes, I think it is actually rude.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503182953	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. There are no more brief comments. We'll move on in the series of speeches. The next speaker is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183012	Thank you. The history of Denmark in recent decades has taught us that the number of foreigners coming to Denmark is important for our ability to maintain Danish culture, our democratic principles and to finance our welfare societies. These are expensive experiences which we cannot allow to be ignored as well. Against this background, we think it is sensible that Denmark's Statistics make these projections of the population composition, and we think it is good that the Danish People's Party is taking the initiative to have a good debate on how the different parties view the figures. The figures in themselves can be completely indifferent if it was not because the new citizens are hitting hard in a series of boring statistics. Men with a non-Western background appear 2.5 times as often in crime statistics as others, only half of the same men are in employment, while three out of four in the rest of the population, and we note that we have not managed to overcome the parallel societies that have arisen in Denmark. Although we can also track progress, for example. with regard to the level of education for young women of ethnic origin other than Danish and the number of children who attend day care institutions, we cannot escape the fact that the record high level of asylum for 2015 and the resulting family reunifications will be a huge challenge for Danish society, especially for the lowest-paid and socially most vulnerable Danes. We know that it is they who will in practice bear the burden of integration both in the labour market and in the residential areas. The increasing number of refugees also means an increased need for the expansion of the public sector. It will require 5,000 new homes, 300 new reception classes, 80 new day care institutions and 1,200 new educators alone to maintain the current level of welfare according to KL. Do we even believe in this at a time of severe cuts in the municipal economy? And who will be the losers when the quality of the welfare state fails? Right, all those who can't pay for private schools, kindergarten and hospitals themselves. The Socialists have a historic obligation to all those who are not born with a silver spoon in the butt, and we will not sit and watch that migration undermines the welfare state. That is why we in the Socialist Group have supported a strict policy of asylum and family reunification. This is also reflected in our proposal for adoption. We cannot continue with an influx that we saw in 2015. Of course, we could choose to abandon the ambition of integrating the many refugees and family members who come in these years, as we hear from the Danish People's Party. We could have people living permanently in camps on Danish soil until they could be sent home. In this way the labour market does not have to open up, housing should not be indicated, the reception classes should not be set up. All we had to do was travel some tents and some barracks and send some food and some medicine and blankets into the camps, and that would allow us to house many more and we would avoid the problems of integration. But we do not support this on the part of the Socialists. We are in favour of integration, partly because it is uncertain when it will be possible for them to return home for years, partly because we will not see children growing up on Danish soil without the possibility of being able to function in our society. And what do we do on the day a family knocks on the door of the hospital and asks if their children can be operated on for a serious illness? I find it hard to imagine that the Danes believe that we should slam the door in the head of such a family. By integration, I do not mean that everyone should be the same. We do not want to ban scarves in public spaces or restrict shawarma on Nørrebrogade, but we want to make it quite clear that there are parts of the foreign culture that are carried to Denmark, which we are fervently opposed to and which we want to fight with everything we own. Our movement has been through a hundred years of political struggle for women's equality. Much of the struggle has been fought with religious forces within the Christian Church, which wanted to taboo the female body, restrict women's access to the labour market and create legal primacy for the man in a marriage. We do not intend to take a single step back in that fight, even if it may be practical with Sharia council or arranged marriages or sex - divided swimming pools. The same applies to democratic principles. We do not believe that the rule of law and the rule of the people can survive if an increasing proportion of the population believes that the Koran is above the constitution. It's no good, even if it's a minority. We need a political showdown of religious fundamentalism and social control, and that showdown cannot be taken once and for all. I think it will be a condition as long as there is immigration to Denmark from non-western countries. However, those parties which continue to support the 1973 immigration freeze and the subsequent tight immigration legislation are also obliged, in our view, to use resources to help the poor and failed states both with emergency relief in the neighbourhoods for war zones, but also with the long-term help to build stable states, infrastructure and education for the next generation. Therefore, we were not in favour of the cuts in Danish foreign funds for 2016 made by the current government, which is why we see the need for urgent spending of 200 million. kr. We have already proposed and set out funding for more help in the neighbourhood. The Social Democrats' proposal for adoption, on which we will vote on another day, shows all these considerations in a short overall text which we look forward to discussing with the other parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183515	Could the rapporteur read out the proposal for adoption so that it can form the basis for and form part of the further negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183524	The sharp ear may hear a repetition or two. Proposal for adoption The Parliament notes that a consistent policy on foreigners and an active policy on integration with employment at the centre should continue to be pursued so that no more parallel societies can emerge. The Folketing wants all citizens in Denmark to respect Danish culture, Danish traditions, fundamental democratic principles, freedoms and gender equality. Against this background, the Danish Parliament notes that initiatives must be taken to combat anti-democratic and extremist environments and repressive social control. Parliament therefore calls on the government to ensure that non-western immigration is restricted so that the necessary integration can be achieved. Parliament calls on the government to provide the necessary assistance to the refugees in the neighbourhood. • V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183608	The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183621	Thank you. There are many good words and things in the rapporteur's speech. I take note of the text of the proposal for adoption: "Consistent immigration policy'. This was also the case in the 1980s and 1990s, when the Social Democrats and the Radicals were primarily responsible for the disastrous refugee policy. So a consistent refugee policy and foreign policy does not mean that there will be fewer people in Denmark. My question is, in fact, why the Socialists continue to insist on integrating refugees into Denmark when a refugee is a person who has to be here on a temporary basis and then has to return home as soon as possible. It makes no sense for the rapporteur to want, as I understand him, to slow down immigration and the disastrous influx of people who want to integrate them at the same time, because that means that they want to stay. Are the Socialists not just continuing the policy of the 1980s and 1990s?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183732	We are not of that opinion, and I do not think so either. Alex Ahrendtsen is that a consistent policy on foreigners was pursued from 1983 onwards. We do not believe that it was the right asylum policy that was pursued. We believe, for example, that it was wrong to have a concept of de facto refugees, and we think it was wrong to have the legal requirement for family reunifications that we had for many years after 1983. Why integration? the rapporteur asks. We are looking at integration for several different reasons. The first is that we have seen that for a few decades we have had experience with refugees in Denmark that some of them will stay here, whether the rapporteur or I like it or not. And that is why it is foolish and short-sighted not to take steps for integration when they arrive here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183822	Well, then, the rapporteur accepts that refugees will become immigrants, and so the Socialists will do nothing to stop the influx. That must also be one of the reasons why the Socialists will say 'yes' to the trialogue negotiations, where, among other things, it is. Danes who find it difficult to bite their way into the labour market are affected. This means that they will be at the end of the job queue and that newcomers will be at the forefront, even with a bonus, and will be allowed to receive unemployment benefit at the end of two years of integration. How on earth is that connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183902	In the Aliens Act there is a paragraph describing how to obtain a permanent residence permit in Denmark. It is, of course, the paragraph that describes how a refugee can become an immigrant. And if the rapporteur asks the Socialists whether we are in favour of abolishing that paragraph, in other words abolishing the possibility of permanent residence permits, then the answer is that it is true that we are opposed to it. We continue to want the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits. If the Danish People's Party thinks otherwise, I am very interested in hearing it. The second part of your question will have to be answered in a later answer, because now I have no more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183937	The next question in the line is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503183942	I have a very simple question to which I hope the rapporteur will respond so that it helps my own understanding. When you get out as a refugee to Center Sandholm, the first thing that happens is that you are presented with a video, a long clip, where you are introduced to all the rights that you have. Nobody ever tells you that this is temporary and that you have to go back home. I simply believe that there is an inconsistency in the whole way of putting things forward. What I fear is that the rapporteur's own party and the government, too, have simply capitulated and said that the people who come here must be turned into immigrants from day one, the refugees just have to be turned into immigrants, and then they stay here. Over. And that is it (second Vice-President Yes, thank you!), I can look at the integration process and the whole way you want to integrate...
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184052	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184053	Thank you for the question. We have not surrendered; on the contrary, we have just joined the Danish People's Party in tightening the conditions for obtaining a permanent residence permit. It is, of course, an expression of our wish that the period to be here temporarily should be longer and that greater demands should be made for us to be able to be here permanently. It's the opposite of capitulation. Now I have just 30 seconds to answer the question I was asked before, so I will allow myself that. It is about basic integration training, which gives refugees and family members the opportunity to enter the Danish labour market on some student-like salaries. It is wrong to say that the Socialists believe that socially disadvantaged Danes should be in the back of the queue. On the contrary, we have proposed, even as a requirement for the political negotiations on the Igu scheme, that the bonus, which is now introduced for refugees and family reunification, should also be re-introduced to the egu students, as it was in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184158	Sir. Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184202	Then I have another question, and that is in relation to the new tripartite agreement, which contains two basic elements which I think are interesting. One is that you can go out on a student's salary or apprentice's salary, or whatever you call it, of about DKK 49-50. I think that this is a different matter and that two years later you will be entitled to benefit. And I have to say, I just don't understand. I cannot understand why the Socialists are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184232	It is true that the student salaries the Igu students will bring out are the same as the student salaries agreed in the Egu student agreements, and they fluctuate somewhat. The 49 kroner. is in a municipal FOA agreement, i.e. between FOA and the National Association of Municipalities. If you take the deal I've worked on myself in the construction, it's significantly more I think they'd start just under 70 kroner. per hour and end at over 100 kroner. It's an hour. So it's swinging, I'll say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184303	The next question is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184306	Thank you. I would also like to begin by commending Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, rapporteur. I hope that it will not be a problem for him that there are so many DFs who thought it was a good speech he made. But it wasn't meant to be a kiss of death. Can I not just hold onto this very central point, which others have also touched on, precisely this central question of whether social democracy has moved forward. That's what you have in the rhetoric. At least I've seen that. But is social democracy in the key area still away from the idea that refugees should be turned into immigrants? And if you are not, why is it that you are in a tripartite agreement where there is no word about it, so nothing at all about what you are doing to ensure that the refugees who can come home also come home? Has something changed or what does the Social Democratic Party think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184404	Thanks for the rose. It's not a kiss of death. I see it more as having convinced some people in the Chamber, and I am pleased about that. Have we moved? Yeah, we've moved. We have moved away from the positions of the Social Democratic Party when we helped to create the Aliens Act in 1983. We have moved on to the positions adopted not by the Progress Party in the 1980s, but by the Social Democratic Mayors of the West in the 1980s. And that's a move that I personally am quite happy with. Have we moved on whether we consider the refugees to be future immigrants? At any rate, it can be said that helping to tighten up the requirements for obtaining a temporary residence permit is an expression of our wish that the period of temporary residence should last longer, just as we have supported repatriation schemes throughout history. Of course, we still stand by that. We also note soberly, and I think that would also serve the Danish People's Party in honour of the fact that it has not previously been short on domestic ministers who have wanted more people to go home. And we can see that a relatively large majority of those who have come here remain here. We are prepared to discuss new political methods to ensure that fewer people remain here. However, we simply note that relatively many remain here, and we want to set up an integration policy for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184525	But should it be easier now to get people to go back home if it is to start an entire integration process? That's what I'm questioning. I mean, it's been hard before, but now it's getting even harder. What should you learn Danish for if you are going back to Syria again? Wouldn't it be better to teach, for example? English, that is, an international language that can be used positively and actively when you return again? Such a few, what should we say, signals to do so tell the refugees that this is not permanent, but for a shorter period. And in the meantime, we're teaching you and your kids, for example. English and also in the culture of the country from which you come. It would have been an active change, but that's not what you do. Even more integration is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184623	By answering the rapporteur's question, I might also be able to get the answer to that, Mr President. Christian Langballe said earlier. If it is the case that people who receive a temporary residence permit in Denmark are left with the impression from the authorities, for example. in Sandholm camp, that it is permanent residence permits that they have been given, we make a mistake. I mean, basically, people need to be informed that they are here on a temporary basis. That's the residence permit they get. Do we therefore want them not to be taught in Danish? No. It is for this reason that we believe that some of them, no matter how much we fight in here, will stay here because there will not be security in the country from which they have travelled, at least not for all of them. It would be foolish not to make sure that the children who grow up here in Denmark do not also learn our language. A lot of them have to live here. It would be to shoot Danish society in the foot and send out a bill for the future if we did not make sure that they entered the labour market as soon as possible, learned something Danish, became part of the Danish labour market. A positive side effect is that that is what I mentioned when I stood down in the Chamber and asked us from earlier on we know from the Bosnians that those who were best integrated were also the ones who went home and that those who were least integrated were the ones who stayed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184730	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184735	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party define non-Western.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184748	If Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is referring to the fact that in my speech and in our proposal for adoption I use the term 'non-Western', I would say that we are leaning on the definitions which Denmark's Statistics also uses and which form the basis of this question debate. I do not dare to answer exactly where the border goes, which countries are covered. But I am counting on Afghanistan to be non-Western and Germany to be western.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184820	However, the rapporteur would also like to know that Korea, China, India and all the countries nearby are also non-western, and that immigration from the countries that want to stay in Denmark maybe because they have got a job through those countries is also included in the rapporteur's definition of how it should be restricted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184846	If you look at the Danish crime statistics, you will see that the Koreans do not strike out, and if they do, I will almost bet that they are less criminals than the average Dane is, just as it will probably apply to the Japanese and now I don't remember the last of Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's question.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So when we lean on those concepts, it is not the countries we have in mind; it is some other countries. It could, for example, be done. Be stateless Palestinians from Lebanon, they could be Turks, they could be Afghans, they could be Iraqis, they could be Somalis. It is, of course, just looking at statistics where we can see that we have the challenges of integration. And I think we all know that there are also some countries with which we do not have integration challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184938	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503184941	I'm really sad. Now I have known the Social Democrats since I was very, very young and also followed the progress that is actually being made here. When my grandfather was young, it was the case that you were both against war and perceived the working class as an international class, where you helped each other across borders against those who exploited a non-nationalist. There I think the Socialists forget that there are actually people fleeing Assad, fleeing ISIL, fleeing from barrel bombs, nowhere have to go because the neighbouring areas are completely filled. If we do not, for example. In Europe, 0.2 per cent should be available. or 2 percent in a year, who could then in this world, and what should they do if they cannot be properly welcomed and better against in Denmark than they can at the moment? I am a little embarrassed that the big parties in this way turn their backs on people in need.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185049	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185050	Thank you for the question. I think that Danish society could handle an influx that we saw in 2015, i.e. 21,000 asylum seekers plus their family reunification, if it were for a single year. But what is our challenge is that it is on top of 45 years of Danish foreign policy with an influx to this country, and that we can see that the influx will continue in 2016. If the question is whether we think it is too much, then the answer is yes, we think so. One can minimize it by calling it 0.2 per cent, but the truth is that we can look at the projection we have just received from Danmarks Statistik, which says that in 2050 people with a foreign background and their descendants will make up almost one fifth of the population. That is a relevant issue to address. I think it is. I don't think you can just sweep that off by saying it's two per thousand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185149	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185152	I'm not sweeping anything at all. I'm just looking reality in the eye. The world is full of conflicts, which we are sending more bombers down to, creating more refugees instead of helping to resolve some of the conflicts, bringing some of the wars to an end. And there it is that until we manage it as humanity, we have to help accept these refugees. They cannot simply be in crowded tenants and cause Jordan and the other neighbouring countries to collapse completely. It is a responsibility that we have and that is where we have to deal with the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185228	Yes, the world is full of conflict. We want to help take responsibility for solving some of them. We have thus voted in favour of the EU concluding an agreement with the Turkish Government to try to deal with some of this flow of refugees. The Enhedslisten voted against. We have also voted in favour of Denmark actively participating in the fight against the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. The Enhedslisten has voted against. Seen from my chair, it looks more like it is the Enhedslisten that is failing and running away from the responsibility we have to resolve the conflicts that are in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185303	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185308	Thank you very much. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether social democracy believes that integrating refugees is an expression of pursuing a consistent and strict immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185324	Yeah, we think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185331	Thank you for a short answer. I would then like to ask the rapporteur a question, because I think I sensed some recognition that this 1980s and 1990s immigration policy might have failed somewhat. If we sum this up in relation to all the immigrants who have been here since then and who are actually still unemployed, and then add their descendants and add to it the refugees who will then come now and all of whom must be integrated, how does the rapporteur think it leaves unemployed Danes in the whole puzzle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185359	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe it leaves unemployed Danes, but also employed Danes in some of the industries where we imagine these refugees are going into the labour market, with a huge challenge and a huge challenge. Well, we know they don't go into internship as a high school teacher. They're not going to sit in the teacher's room at a high school where they're internship. It is not going to be high school teachers who have to face the challenge of integration in practice. It will not be the villas in Risskov north of Aarhus where they will have a residence. It will remain in the general residential areas, and it will be about work primarily carried out by unskilled workers, but also by skilled workers. That is why we have been in favour of limiting the influx to Denmark because we know who in practice will face the challenge of integration. But from there and then to say that they must be on the support for the rest of the time they are in Denmark, and not contribute to the community we have, and not help to finance the welfare state that they will also draw on, there is a long way to go. We will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185453	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185458	Thank you. I have asked for the floor to clarify something in the answer given by the rapporteur to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. We could understand that these non-western immigrants are not Koreans and Japanese, and so on. But then the rapporteur mentions, among other things, that this is the case. are stateless Palestinians. I hope the rapporteur does not think so, because I believe that this is contrary to various international agreements that we have. And I would just like to make it clear that, of course, we cannot keep stateless persons out of our country, but we must actually provide them with protection and residence here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185538	I have not mentioned anything about the fact that we want to change asylum policy, but I have mentioned something about the fact that we want to limit non-western immigration because we know who it is that appears in statistics. And precisely the stateless Palestinians are, as far as I remember, those who absolutely peak in crime statistics. So, yes, I mentioned them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185603	Well then, we could look at that a little more, because I do not think we can call it immigration if it is stateless Palestinians who come and ask for residence and they have not been given protection and residence elsewhere, because then we have an obligation to provide them with help. So I think the rapporteur is mixing it up a little in relation to what immigration is and is not. It would be very unfortunate if we did not provide this aid to stateless persons who have fled a country which is occupied.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185629	People who stand at the Danish border and say asylum and who, according to the UN Refugee Convention and Danish legislation, should be granted asylum, feel that the Socialists should have asylum, whether they are from Japan, whether they are from Turkey or whether they are stateless Palestinians. That's not what I've been talking about. But what I have been talking about is that we have voted on a policy that, in general, wants to limit the influx from non-western countries. We are aware that it is going to hit people of many different nationalities and guaranteed also stateless Palestinians. And it will also be the case that the tightening up of the family reunification rules that we have made and the rules for granting temporary residence permits apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185708	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185712	Thank you. Now I understood from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there was a difference between anti-democratic forces and that it was dependent on whether some came from non-western countries or some came from Western countries. So anti-democratic forces from Western countries are not quite as problematic as anti-democratic forces from non-western countries. Now I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that this is not all non-western countries, but some non-western countries, and we must nevertheless be able to grant asylum. Does the rapporteur not agree that it helps to cloud the debate, that we need to talk about limiting the non-western influx, if that is not the problem, but that the problem is that there are anti-democratic forces and that it is they that we need to focus on how to combat, whether it is among stateless Palestinians, ethnic Danes, or whether they are people from Japan or Korea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185808	Our intention to support the political initiatives aimed at reducing the influx from non-western countries was not just that there would be non-democratic forces among them. It was also because we just think that the number in itself meant something, even though they are all nice and nice people with good attitudes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185833	Then I have to ask how they are a problem. Why is it a problem if it is people who are integratable and who contribute to Danish society and participate on an equal footing as we see it in many places?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185849	I think it is a problem when there are more than 80% in some primary schools in the West. of the children, who have a different ethnic background and who do not have a Danish culture from home. I think it is a problem when I spoke to a mother a few days ago, whose child is fourth generation forces in the West, who still speaks less Danish than his peers. I think that is a problem and I believe that it is related to the number of people who have come here. I do not think that one can simply ignore the fact that the number of people coming to Denmark has an impact on our ability to integrate them and on our ability to create a good society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185924	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. Marcus Knuth, rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503185937	Thank you very much, and thank you for the floor. The question in this question debate concerns the cultural and economic consequences of the increase in immigration that we are experiencing in these years and up to 2050. And that is a very, very relevant debate. Especially now that a huge flow of refugees and migrants has waved over Denmark and the rest of Europe. And the relevance has not diminished by the fact that we have recently been confronted with some of the extremist environments in which certain groups in Danish society seem to have more than difficulty adapting to the otherwise free framework that we have built up for generations. There are people who deliberately and deliberately even oppose and attack the Danish cultural values that Denmark is built on, and these are trends that I believe we in the government should strike down the hardest possible. So thank you for raising this question. It is true that it has consequences both for the economy and for the preservation of Danish culture, if we allow ourselves to stand by in the field of immigration and integration, or if we even make a number of concessions, as the previous government did. Today, therefore, we see clearly the result of the failed policy of the past: only one in two immigrants from non-western countries are in employment. It is a shocking figure that not only has consequences for the individual but also a figure that has enormous consequences for Danish society, which under no circumstances benefits from the ghetto formations and parallel societies that come with it. That is why the government and the Left have already tackled the problem from day one. In the ten months that the Left has had the power of government, we have been working towards two things. Firstly, it should be significantly less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. We have done this with up to 40 asylum restrictions, and we have carried out approximately as many ten-month austerity measures as the previous government did in four years. Secondly, one must understand from the outset that if one comes here, one must take an active part in Danish society. You have to get a job, you have to become a part of Denmark in the time you are here. Because we would like to see a return home on the day of peace in the country of origin. This is among other things. That is why we have tightened up how long we can obtain a residence permit, so that it is precisely the way to return home when there is peace. The road to good integration takes place through the labour market, and we believe that in the time one is in Denmark one should contribute to society. The two and three-way agreements were both ambitious agreements which seriously create an improved framework in which we push the people who have been legally resident in Denmark into jobs. Those who come here are going to meet the Danes. They must learn our values, our language and our cultural DNA. If you are in Denmark, you have to take the Danish values into account as if it were your own. We will at all times safeguard freedom, democracy and the Danish cultural values that we believe a good and value-creating society is built on. I am therefore very pleased that the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives have agreed on a text in which we call for a reduction in non-western immigration which does not contribute positively to Danish society. Because that's exactly what this is about. I believe that foreigners who contribute and become part of Denmark are a strength for Denmark. However, as far as possible, we should close Denmark off to those who come here to exploit our welfare societies and establish themselves in parallel societies. That is why the Left continues to support strict immigration policy and a hard-core commitment to the integration of the people who are legally resident in Denmark. I would like to welcome the Consevatives and say that they could not be here today, but that they also support our proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190334	There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190336	Thank you, President. If I am to measure it in this way over the year, I think it has actually been an accident that refugee policy has been mixed with immigration, because these are two different things. What I find difficult in this debate is that refugees are being turned into immigrants from day one. Well, I mentioned before that example from Center Sandholm, where these refugees who come are presented with a rather long video where they are told what rights they have and what they are entitled to in relation to Danish society. There's just not a single person telling them that this is temporary, so they're actually going back home. That's where I think everything gets mixed up in these discussions, i.e. because you don't hold on to what it really means to be a fugitive. The fact that you are a fugitive means that you seek shelter in a certain place and have protection, and when the states of war from which you have fled are over, then of course you go back home. And then you start all that immigration stuff and people have to be integrated and everything. I think this is a strange discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190456	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190500	I very much believe that we must make a difference between refugees and immigrants. Then it may well be that there is some video that welcomes people who get to stay in Denmark, but that doesn't change a millimeter by telling those who get to stay in Denmark. If you, for example, come from Syria, you are told that you will get a residence permit of 1 year, then 1 year more and then 1 year more, and that if there is peace in your home country, you will immediately have to return home regardless of the fact that you have a job in Denmark, regardless of your situation in Denmark. I mean, these two things don't add up. We continue to believe that as soon as there is peace and people can go back to their homeland, they must return. But during the period when they are staying in Denmark, they must contribute to society. This means that they have strengthened their competences so that they can return as stronger people, while at the same time it is an economic strength for Denmark, compared to if you just let people sit permanently on transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190552	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190554	So I have to say about these trialogues, where it is suggested that refugees can go out and get an apprentice's salary for about this $49, or whatever it is going to be, and then, after two years, the allowance is entitled, that I think it is simply a blue light. And I don't really understand it, because I think the basic question when we take refugees is whether they should just be integrated and become part of Denmark and then stay in Danish society. I think that is a very clear answer, because we do not think so at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190631	As I just said, if you have a residence permit of one year and it is possible to be repatriated within that year because there is peace in your home country, you have to go home, regardless of whether you are in the middle of a course or in the middle of a working relationship in Denmark. But that doesn't change the fact that we conducted these two and three-way negotiations and got an Igu that we want to remind you of the egu, and there are some things that have to be said. In no way do I want the refugees to be on a daily allowance. That is why they will only earn the right to it after a longer period. But that is the system we have found. Because we believe that if it is the case that you do not contribute during the period you are here as a refugee, then the entire Danish welfare is undermined.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190714	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190719	After all, we agree that the number matters, and I think that has also been established with seven inch nails in the debate that has taken place so far. But when we talk about the influx to Denmark, we do not get around to discussing aid in the neighbourhood too. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur a rather simple question: does the rapporteur think that the massive cuts in local emergency aid mean that fewer people are fleeing or that more people are fleeing and thus end up in countries such as Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190802	I believe that the Danish effort as a whole is a case in point. Then it may well be that we have cut development aid, so that we are now only one of the five countries around the world that, in terms of our size, actually meet the UN's objective of contributing. On the other hand, we have among other things. Made a massive upgrade of our military efforts against the Islamic State, which is one of the main drivers of why people are fleeing. So if the rapporteur asks me whether I believe that the current Danish effort, compared with the previous one, contributes to fewer or more people fleeing in the long term, then I would say that I would say that we are a pioneer country. The combination of our development aid, our military commitment, our co-thinking and our stabilisation operations means that we are one of the countries that is doing the most to ensure that there is peace and fewer refugee flows in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190858	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190859	That's not what I asked. I asked a very, very simple question which should not be misunderstood: does less emergency aid mean fewer or more fleeing to countries such as Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190912	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190913	Well, I kind of think I've answered that. We have upgraded our military efforts, and if you put it up very black and white, you could say that we may be spending more money on the military now and less on development aid. I believe that the overall result is that fewer people are fleeing. If you look only at pure development aid, you can say that it has of course been reduced and that it has an effect, but if we then spend that money in a place where they have even greater impact, such as military action against the IS, then we are even better off than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190943	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503190948	You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. Moving money from development aid to military bombing of Syria improves the situation and creates fewer refugees. The rapporteur is going to go further into South Zealand to sell it. I am absolutely convinced of that. I think we should start talking about reality rather than blinding people. If you take 6 billion. kr. from development aid within 15 months, either because you save or because you spend it on refugees, it is clear that there are some places in the world where the world's poorest people live, do not get that help and where the risk of refugees coming from that area also increases. That's perfectly logical. Even an academic should understand that. I'm sorry, I'm saying it a little bit directly. I believe that this policy is a disaster policy that will create more refugees. If you bomb more in Syria, there will be more fleeing. It's something that goes without saying. Does the rapporteur not agree with such logics at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191055	With all due respect, I come from Lolland and not from South Zealand. In addition, we have cut development aid, but we have put more resources into helping in the region around Syria. That's where we actually made an upgrade. Besides, we don't bomb Syria like a country. We're not bombing the Assad regime. We are bombing the Islamic State, which is the terrorist organisation that many people are fleeing from. Do I think we should just pull out and let the Islamic State grow like a cancerous tumor, take over more of the Middle East, set up a caliphate, maybe take over Pakistan? They're already well on their way into Afghanistan... a Pakistan armed with nuclear weapons, and see what the world looks like? No, I don't think so. I believe that our military commitment is a completely central cornerstone of ensuring long-term peace in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191143	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191146	That's not what I asked. I asked if the rapporteur could not see that removing development aid somewhere increases the risk of refugees. If you use it to bomb people, at least in the first place, whether it's Assad, you bomb, or whether it's ISIL, you bomb, or whoever you bomb. After all, civilians are being hit and, at least, civilians are being scared. The second is: does the rapporteur think that 3 per thousand refugees in Denmark per year are sober? Years should be a threat to Danish welfare societies, such quite soberly? If you have a little mathematics in your head, you can quickly figure out that it doesn't matter very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191224	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191226	Well, in relation to the bombing of the Islamic State, I think I answered that earlier. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to strike down this type of extremism as hard as possible, otherwise it will only get worse and worse until they have darkened the whole world. In relation to the asylum pressure we have been under, yes, I see it very much as a threat to the Danish welfare society. One only has to take a look at Sweden to see what would happen if it were the case that we had not tightened up. If we had received twice as many, four times as many asylum seekers as we have received, we would have to cut schools, the elderly, our welfare, not to mention the growing extremism and the more parallel societies that would result from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191307	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191312	Thank you. I think that the view of the rapporteur from the government-leading party is somewhat controversial. Firstly, I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the past and he confirms that, despite the fact that additional funds have been set aside for various neighbourhood initiatives, this does not in any way compensate for the general downgrading of the general level, which means that we simply do not reach the same level as we did during our reign. I have that answer from the Secretary of State in writing. The second is what the rapporteur is now saying about the fact that the money we spend on the military effort can be counted into the pool to stop the flow of refugees. In the very short term, then, it is quite logical that the war and the effort in which we are engaged should not, of course, end. Hopefully it will do so a little longer, and that is why we support it, but is it such a new concept that the government intends to embark on? As far as I know, there is nothing international that says that you can make that coupling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191413	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191415	What I said earlier in relation to development aid is that I know, at least last year, that we upgraded our efforts in and around Syria. I think we have done the same this year. I must be guilty of answers. I don't have the latest numbers right in front of me. In relation to the comparison between development aid and military action, my personal impression is that I have also worked with our Syrian efforts that, in the combination of both military action against extremists and humanitarian action to help those who are on the run, Denmark is one of the countries that is at the forefront. It is not to create some new concept, but to explain to the rapporteur before that Denmark can stand by the overall effort that we have, and Denmark's efforts are not only in the development aid that we bring in. Denmark's overall effort consists of a large number of areas, including the now increased military effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191515	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191516	In fact, I asked the Foreign Minister last year whether, with the actual resources, and I said actual resources, we could meet that level, and the Foreign Minister confirmed that, despite the downgrading of the general framework, that amount is below last year's level. It's December 3rd. So it's confirmed. Secondly, the rapporteur says that it is the rapporteur's personal opinion that the two things can be linked together, so I have to assume that it is the rapporteur's personal position that is reflected in the speech here and not the position of the Left or the government that this link can be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191549	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191551	I have to be honest and say that I am not quite sure that I understand the first part of the question in relation to overall development aid, whether it is to Syria, whether it is to the Middle East as a whole or exactly what it is, but I know that our support for Syria and for the Syrian people in and around Syria has increased at least last year, I know that I am not the development rapporteur, but it is as I understand it. In addition, I believe quite clearly in relation to our overall efforts, and it is also the view of the government that it has clearly increased now that we have put even harder action against the Islamic State. We can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191632	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191635	Thank you very much. During the election campaign, the Left came with a linguistic new invention, which has since gone into the Danish Language Board's inventory, and this was the expression immediately slowing down. At first I did not really understand it myself, but the rapporteur was so kind in a debate in South Zealand to explain it to me. This meant that, immediately after the parliamentary elections, initiatives would be taken to avoid a very large influx of asylum seekers over the summer months. Some people said at the time that it would be very difficult to implement it, but yet the governing party, I remember, was very convinced at that time that it was possible to do so. Now it is the case that the Danish Language Board has one definition and the Left has a different definition, so I just want to ask: Has the definition of the concept of immediate braking changed, or does it still mean that one should avoid a very large influx? And if this may mean that you should not avoid a very large influx, what is it? How many refugees and migrants can come under the concept of immediate slowing down?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191741	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191742	Well, I don't think the concept has changed. However, as our Prime Minister said, I believe it was in September when we suddenly saw hundreds of people wandering up the motorway on Lolland, where Europe broke open, where Merkel told tens of thousands of refugees in Hungary to just come, and we saw a paradigm change in the refugee crisis, or rather a real refugee crisis. So it is not the concept that has changed, it is the reality that has changed. We have then done everything we could to counter this reality by introducing the tightest immigration policy ever seen in Denmark. And since Christmas, since we introduced border controls, the number of asylum seekers has been, I would not say in free fall, but decreasing, decreasing, so that in the last few weeks this is the lowest number for a very, very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191838	Here you go, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191839	Thank you. One can of course stretch a concept far, but the fact that reality should have changed significantly is difficult to see in the statistics at least, understood in the sense that also in 2014 there were quite a significant number of people who came to Denmark. But in 2015, when the current government sat a little more than half of the year, as far as I remember, with the government power, these around 21,000 people came across the borders. Can it be included within the concept of the Left immediately slowing down, or has it really happened that one might have had difficulty in fulfilling the electoral promises that were given back to the electorate last year during the election and were elected on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191920	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503191921	No, I would say that there are very few people in the Kingdom of Denmark who will agree with the rapporteur's view that we were not faced with a new reality, that there was no significant change in refugee influx over the summer. Our Minister for Integration has used the words so recently that Europe broke open. Well, that was a completely new situation. We have done everything we could to stem this. If you look at the last few months and, of course, I want there to be zero illegal in Denmark, we see that the situation in Europe is that we have gone from being a top five country, when the rapporteur's government was in power, to approaching a top ten country in popularity over the countries receiving asylum, and I think that has actually been going quite well in a few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192011	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192013	Thank you. In their joint paper prior to the trialogue negotiations, the LO and DA recommended that a bonus be established for Danish young people taking initial vocational training, as it has been in the past. However, the draft law submitted by the government on basic integration training does not mention establishing such a bonus for Danish young people. It only says something about establishing a bonus for the refugees and family members who are going to be on an Igu. It may make sense because it belongs to another bill. So I am interested to hear from the rapporteur that I know that we are not dealing with the proposal now that the Left is prepared also to restore the bonus to the egu student, because both the Minister and the rapporteur brought up the igu in their speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192106	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192107	Well, as the rapporteur said, that is not what we are dealing with right now, and that is why I am not 100% sure of the details. As I remember, and there I can be wrong, I have said that this is something we may want to look at, but it is in a different debate than Igu. Furthermore, I believe that there is a difference between the two groups, as well as between refugees and cash aid recipients. And that is why the two groups were chosen not to treat the two groups in the same way in the negotiations in question. The main purpose of the two- and three-way negotiations was to get refugees Now I did not sit in the negotiations myself, but I am aware that it has not been included in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192152	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192154	Thank you. On the same day as the tripartite agreement was concluded and the minister was on television and presented it, I received a call from an egu counsellor who said that she could not now allocate her pupils to the Danish employers because they now assumed that there was a bonus in the future and therefore stopped signing training agreements. So a call to the Left to agree quite quickly with the Social Democratic Party that we should establish such a bonus and that it should be established from today's date so that we can remove the uncertainty and so that egu counsellors can again start drawing up training agreements with the young people who need an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192236	Thank you. Sir. Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192237	Thank you very much. I will take that with me, but I would still like to stress that the fears which the rapporteur has just expressed here from a telephone conversation do not seem to me to be so much to be put in. These are two very different groups: refugees, who must be made extra attractive to the labour market precisely by a bonus, versus Danes who know the language, who know the culture and have quite different skills. These are two different groups, so I am not concerned on behalf of the Danish students.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192308	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192311	Thank you. I have asked for the floor to speak on something that the rapporteur said just now, namely that it went straight up and that we cut a little in development aid because we then used the military. First of all, I would like to point out that there are many who are fleeing, among other things. Aleppo, who is under massive bombardment from Assad and his friends right now. This has nothing to do with IS, so it is not only from where refugees come. But what I really want to hear a little bit about is: if we now spread it out a little and not just look at Syria, but generally look at where it is that there is migration and where it is that people are fleeing, then it is from countries that are under pressure either because of destabilization or poverty. So does the rapporteur not believe that the massive cuts in development aid have an impact on what kind of migration we are going to see in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192407	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192408	I think we should be very careful about this very narrow vision, which says that development aid has been cut, which is why we cannot help just as many people in and around Syria. As I said before, Danish development aid has been intensified in areas in and around Syria. In addition, I have not said that we have cut development aid so as to upgrade the military effort. What I have said is that the overall Danish effort is something we can be really, really proud of. In relation to Aleppo, it is true that the Assad regime is bombing very hard there right now, but the Danish effort, in addition to the humanitarian effort, in addition to the military effort that has now increased against the Islamic State, is also based on a very comprehensive stabilisation programme in which we go in and support moderate police, moderate judicial sector, etc. in areas at least north of Aleppo. So the Danish effort in Syria is probably the most comprehensive and probably the most in-depth in relation to the size of our country when you look at those with whom we otherwise work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192514	Thank you. And we just have to remember to talk in the third person and not say you. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192518	Thank you. Well, what I said to the rapporteur at the end of my question was that when we look at our planet a little wider, then there are refugees and migrants from places other than Syria who are currently under pressure. There are countries with destabilization, extreme poverty, climate change, where there are also people fleeing. So that is actually what I asked the rapporteur to do. If we now cut so massively and violently in development aid globally, then the aid we provide globally to the whole world, not Syria, then it will not have an impact on the people who are there, so that we may see further pressure due to destabilization, because of poverty, because of climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192601	Thank you. Sir. Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192602	Well, the places where we have cut are areas where countries have just benefited from the Danish development aid. It could be Indonesia, it could be Vietnam, so countries that have gone from being recipients of development aid to being countries with which we can suddenly trade. We are not going to cut back on support for Syria or for countries in the region that are hard hit right now. We're gonna go out there and cut the aid to, uh... countries which, hopefully, can now be trading partners, where we then go in and try to support them with increased trade efforts. As has been said, when you cut development aid, then of course it has an effect. But we are trying to do so in those areas where it is countries that we can then trade with instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192644	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503192654	Thank you. This question is based on a projection of the population in Denmark to 2050, i.e. 34 years from now. In general, I think it is wise to be careful about very long-term projections and predictions. In 34 years, the world will look much more different than we can imagine today. Having said that, I would also like to say that the questioners are dealing with the concept of population composition. One can understand that what is of particular interest is the relationship between the number of people born abroad, or at least in non-western countries, or whose parents were born in non-western countries, and the rest of the people living in Denmark. It is not crucial for Enhedslisten whether people or their parents were born in Denmark or in non-western countries. Some of the participants in recent years' debate about what the questioners call the composition of the population formulate themselves in a way that gives you the impression that they see a contradiction between being Danish and being Muslim or perhaps even between being Danish and having dark skin or dark hair. Too many times the debate hears the concept of Danes opposed to the concept of Muslims. But it is for Enhedslisten a matter of course that we in Denmark have the freedom to belong to all sorts of Christians, Muslim, Jewish or other religions or not to believe in anything at all, at least not of extraterrestrial beings. Of course you can be a Muslim and a Dane at once. If you operate with the Danes and the Muslims as separate categories, you talk them into a them and os rhetoric to the detriment of what is called the cohesion force in the query. No, it's not crucial where people or their parents are born. It is essential, however, that we are able to integrate the people who are granted a residence permit in Denmark, whether they come here to seek protection from war or persecution, or to live with their family or to work. When the narrow right-wing majority of the Folketing decides that newcomers should only receive public benefits at a level equivalent to half of the benefits received by the recipients of cash benefits, this is to the detriment of integration. It is because it separates refugees as a special group of poor people who get a bad start to life in Denmark. They can only afford the worst housing and the cheapest food, and they, and especially their children, cannot afford to pay a quota to sports clubs and other parts of the famous Danish association life, which has previously proved so suitable for integrating people coming from outside. If the separation of refugees as a special group of poor at the bottom of society is carried out as consistently as the right wing suggests, there is indeed reason to fear for the composition and cohesion of the population, because then the right wing succeeds in cementing a them and our society. Another cause for concern is the trend towards an increasing number of people living their lives in Denmark without Danish citizenship. In this way they live in a certain sense outside society because they do not have the civil rights, the right to vote and the freedom of travel enjoyed by the vast majority of the population. Monday morning pointed out recently, there were 2% in 1979. of the resident population who did not have Danish citizenship. Today the figure is 8%. That figure will grow if the right and the Social Democrats maintain the very strict rules on obtaining Danish citizenship, as they agreed when they concluded the latest citizenship agreement in October 2015. Denmark cannot withdraw from the world. Some immigration will take place up to 2050 because of war and oppression, because of globalisation and the open borders of the European Union and because of employers' need for skilled labour. We can only have a limited impact on the number of immigrants and refugees. But what we have full control of as politicians in the Danish Parliament is how we receive the people who come here and whether we give them proper integration for their own benefit and not least for the benefit of all of us who live here in Denmark. Only in this way can we do something good for the composition and cohesion of the population. Then I must say that we in the Enhedslist support the proposal for adoption that the radical rapporteur will be putting forward on our behalf here a little later.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193131	I think it's time to wait until it's put forward. But there are some comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193139	Thank you. At an earlier stage in the debate, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that I understood at least that it was not really recognised that the fact that so many people are coming to Denmark has an impact on how society develops. I'd like to ask a few questions about that. For example, does Enhedslisten believe that it is an independent value that we have a common language, we have a common culture, we have common traditions that help bind us together as Danes and as people? Does Enhedslisten believe that it is an independent value for Danish society, and is it something that Enhedslisten wants to hold on to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193213	Now there are many different kinds of traditions and many different ways to be together in Denmark. I do not think that there is any clear size of the way we are together in Denmark. I believe that Danish society benefits from being a dynamic society that is in development. It is clear that the fact that there is a large influx of refugees into Denmark will have consequences for what Danish society will look like. But it does, too, if it is the case that we shut ourselves down and say that we cannot accept them, but that they must go back to Syria. Because that would be the consequence of saying that they cannot be here. So yes, I think that Danish society consists of many different kinds of traditions and many different ways of being together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193254	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193256	Now there are people who voluntarily return to Syria, including asylum seekers, so you can see there. The world is so marvelous in many ways. But it is true that there are many different traditions. Then you can ask in another way: Recognizes Enhedslisten that what is, after all, an essential part of the foundation in Denmark, for example. are the traditions built around Christianity? Does Enhedslisten recognise that it is an essential part of the Danish cultural heritage? Does Enhedslisten think it's something worth holding on to? Does Enhedslisten recognise that the Danish language is part of the foundation of Danish society, and if Enhedslisten acknowledges it, is it something that one wants to hold onto? If you can answer yes to the fact that these things are valuable and that you want to hold on to them, can you not see that everything else is equal to a challenge to stick to the fundamental values and culture and traditions and our language, that there are a lot of people coming from outside that bring some other languages and some other cultures and some other traditions to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193352	Well I certainly believe that the fact that there are Christian values in Denmark is important for a lot of people living in Denmark. I also believe that there are many other things that can affect people living in Denmark. It does not necessarily have to be Christian values. But I think that what matters is that we have a common language, and having a common language means making an effort to achieve good integration. That's what we do, for example. have seen people do at the Danish folk high schools when refugees get there. After all, this is an arrangement which the Danish People's Party is now helping to abolish, so that refugees can stay at the Danish high schools. This is one of the ways in which we will have a common culture and a common framework of understanding and a common language. And I think that is extremely important for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193432	Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193434	Thank you. Now this is a debate on numbers, and something that has always puzzled me about the Enhedslisten is that one does not recognise that getting too much concentration in itself is a problem, and it strikes out in many ways. And one of the things I've been looking at is crime statistics. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Going into Danmarks Statistik and looking at the number of immigrants compared to the number of criminals convicted, you can see that in Albertslund, where there are 36%. immigrants, account for 81%. of crime, that they in Odsherred, where there are 5%. Immigrants account for 6%. of crime, and that in Jammerbugt, where there are 4%. immigrants, account for 3%. of crime. So the more immigrants you collect, the more immigrants are also convicted of crime in that area, and there is therefore a proportional increase in crime. Does the Enhedslisten not recognise that there can simply be a problem in getting too large a number in a certain area and that in some way there is a limit to how many people can be integrated in a community and in a municipality and that, if that limit is exceeded, a place where standards and rules are created internally in those groups which are simply not appropriate in relation to Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193544	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193545	Thank you. First of all, I think it is important to state that we fully agree in the Enhedslist that it is a question of reducing the number of refugees. We do not want to create refugees in the world. On the contrary, we want to see as few refugees as possible, and we do so, among other things. by ensuring good development aid and ensuring that people can have a hope for a future in the country in which they live. I think we all want to be able to. When the questioner then asks about the number of refugees and whether it does not create problems, I have to say that it certainly does. It is certainly a problem that there are people fleeing war and death and destruction coming up here, and it is also possible that this is reflected in crime statistics. But the answer must be to try to integrate these people and to ensure that that proportion of crime statistics is reduced. Because we do not solve the problem by saying that we are cutting back on development aid and that we are telling people not to flee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193646	Here you go, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193648	Thank you. As far as development aid is concerned, there is not a great deal of disagreement, but as far as I am aware, and the rapporteur must correct me if I am mistaken. The Enhedslisten has voted against every tightening up of immigration policy as far as one can remember. However, if the Enhedslisten can now be said to recognise that the number means something and that an excessive number also becomes a social problem, does this mean that you distance yourself from all the 'no' votes that you have put in relation to tightening over the last 20-30 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193721	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193722	No, it doesn't. Of course, I am not the rapporteur in this area, but that does not mean that we distance ourselves from it. It may well be a problem, but if the consequence is that we should not accept these refugees at all, then it also does something about our society. If we say that people must go back to death and war and destruction because we cannot integrate them, then it will also have an impact on our society. My point is that it is possible then that it creates some challenges for us and I don't think we should close our eyes to that, but these are some challenges we have to deal with. There we have to believe in cohesion and believe that these problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193801	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193803	The rapporteur has to correct me, but did the rapporteur not say that in earlier times, and I assume that it was before the right was allowed to decide, and now I am proud of the word right-wing, I think it is a very good word that integration succeeded much, much better? I must say that is not an image I recognize of the reality that is. The statistics actually show that. The integration projects that have been set in motion over the ages have been deeply miserable. It has been deeply miserable and it has been a scandal. What is new in integration is that we begin to make demands, among other things. on languages. Does it really believe that the period after 1983 there was a happy period when integration just went out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193856	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193857	I doubt that I have said that I think that integration was excellent in the past. I don't think it has. What I see today is just signs of preventing integration from succeeding where integration actually succeeds. I mentioned just before the proposal on high schools. In fact, it is one of the places where integration succeeds very well, where refugees can be taken in and made sure that they learn to speak Danish. They live in an environment where Danish is constantly spoken. It actually makes them ready to take jobs and education. It's one of those places where you can say it's actually gonna work. Here there is a way to integrate them into the Danish culture and framework of understanding, in relation to how to behave in Danish society. That is what one chooses to do away with, as it were. That opportunity will be taken away from the citizens. That is what I mean by saying that if you want to do this, you have to say that we have to have some more of the things that we can see succeed, rather than start cutting it away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193953	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503193954	After all, it is very funny that the rapporteur mentions an invention of Grundtvig, the high school where Christianity and popularity went hand in hand. That's what the high schools are built on. But please don't do this. I would like to ask whether there is any limit to the Enhedslisten on how many refugees can come. Because I have such a thought that it is in fact unlimited that the number doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194020	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194021	Thank you. I do not think the questioner has listened because I have just said that the number matters and that it matters to the Enhedslisten that there will be as few refugees in the world as possible. However, when there are refugees, we need to be able to deal with it, and this is a task that we need to undertake together. Then there is no point in just talking about border controls. Then it is all about reducing the flow of refugees in the world. We do not do this by shutting ourselves in; we do so by providing more relief and helping people where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194052	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194056	Thank you. Previously, when refugees came to Denmark, they were asked by Danish Refugee Aid, and many of them ended up in the same municipalities, in Aarhus, in Copenhagen, in Odense and in a number of western municipalities. It was then changed in the late 1990s when a key was created so that they were spread out across all Danish municipalities. Is Enhedslisten in favour of such a key, or does Enhedslisten believe that refugees should be able to settle where they want to live when they come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194127	Sir. Dolphin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194128	As I said, I am not the rapporteur in this area, but as far as I am aware, we are not in favour of any distribution key, but one can say that a distribution key will be created at the moment of the creation of an integration benefit which is so low that there are very, very large restrictions on where to settle. But we are not in favour of the very beginning of setting up quota arrangements and drawing up keys for where a person should settle down. We believe that people should be allowed to settle wherever they want. That does not change the fact that it is a real problem that the questioner points out, namely that there are trends that there are some special residential areas in some particular municipalities where the burden is enormously high. But we do not think that should be resolved through quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194220	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194221	Thank you. The reason I ask is that, for example, In Albertslund, where I live, more than one in three have a foreign background, and in Ishøj and Brøndby, where I am elected, it is even more. In Ishøj it is now almost 40%. of the population who have a non-Western background. If the refugees themselves had the opportunity to decide where they would settle down, I think they would settle down where there was a mosque and a vegetable dealer and a community they could be a part of and where you can talk Arabic for most of the day. And then I would fear that more of them would come to Ishøj, Brøndby and Albertslund, and then I would fear that it would be my children's daycare institution that would take even more, that is to say bear even greater social responsibility, and I do not think very many of them would be able to afford to buy a villa in Gentofte. That is why my question: is it not the consequence of Enhedslisten's policy that it is the poorest and the most vulnerable who will bear the greatest burdens and that it is the richest who will get rid of the bill if you get your way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194316	You still don't use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194318	Thank you. It's the same thing we're talking about when we're talking about these refugee streams that are. Now Sweden, which has taken a large share of the refugees, has been mentioned, and Sweden has done what one might expect from a rich, prosperous country. There have just been a lot of countries around them that have not fulfilled the task that Sweden has done, and the same thing is happening around the municipalities. This should be something we wanted to do around the municipality, it shouldn't be something we talked about as a burden, something that should be distributed. You can see in many of the rural areas that there are, that it is actually a big gain that refugees are going out there and living out there. I think that is the way to go, and I think we should start looking at it as a resource rather than as a burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194400	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194404	Thank you. I have just looked up a few figures about the humanitarian efforts of the current government in the neighbourhood, which the rapporteur criticised earlier. And it turns out, just as I had the impression, that we are doing more in the neighbourhood than the previous government. Does the rapporteur still stand by his criticism of the current government's development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194428	Yes, I do. Now I must add that I am not a development rapporteur, but I have been able to read that development aid has been severely cut if you look at developments over the last ten years. This is not just something for which the current government can be blamed. This was also the case with the previous government. And there is clearly our view that if you want to do something real about the current refugee flows, that is the totally wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194452	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194453	After all, as the rapporteur says, we are talking primarily about refugees from the neighbouring regions of the Middle East. We are not talking about programmes being cut in Vietnam, Indonesia or Latin America. Bearing in mind that the current government has upgraded aid, including development aid in the neighbourhood, and that military action against the IS has been upgraded, how can the rapporteur take a critical view of the current government's efforts in and around Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194525	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194526	I could then call for a review of the situation in the refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon and then for the effort to be made to be strong enough. It is not only an effort that Denmark must make, but the international community must deliver. And it is clear from this perspective that the efforts of the Danish Government are all too much for pauver.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194549	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194551	Thank you. I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur about the key, which I understand is against in the Enhedslisten. This means that the Enhedslisten supports rich municipalities, for example. Gentofte and other municipalities in Nordsjælland, can claim no responsibility and instead push it on to the West Region and to the City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194611	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194613	In other words, we are in the Enhedslisten in favour of having a debate where refugees are not referred to as a burden to be pushed around between poor municipalities, but to start looking at these people as a real resource. The more we talk into this debate that it is a burden and that it is a problem, the more it becomes a problem. And if we're going to reverse this development, we're going to have to look at these people as some people who can actually be a resource for Danish society. In fact, that is what we are experiencing in many places. But the more we talk about them as a problem, the more it becomes a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194648	Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194650	I did not say exactly as the rapporteur did. Well, I didn't use the word burden or problem. But if I understand it correctly, Enhedslisten means that when you come, you have to be able to live wherever you want. This means that we must be able to reach areas where there are already a great many problems of integration, while rich municipalities where there are very few refugees and immigrants do not have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194714	In other words, it is not a secret now, nor is it a matter for integration policy. This is also the way Danish social policy works. There we also see a clumping of people, because the services we pay make there are certain areas where people can choose to live. There is no free choice of accommodation. There is no such thing for people on cash benefits, people on integration benefits or people on cash benefits. It's a problem that people get lumped together like that. But this is not something that is particularly important in terms of integration policy. This is, in fact, a social policy problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194746	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194750	Thank you. After all, I heard the debate between the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the Left rapporteur, and I can already say that I have and therefore I know that Denmark is indeed one of the most advanced countries in terms of development aid. So when you hear Enhedslisten try to build himself up to something, I don't know what, and try to tell you that now Denmark has to do more, because Denmark doesn't do very much in relation to Syria, I just want to mention one specific example: we have doubled our contribution to Syria at the Donor Conference in London 11⁄2 months ago. Denmark is at the very top in terms of development aid to the neighbourhood. So is it not a little absurd that in the Danish Parliament we should now hear a representative of the Enhedslisten stand and make it clear to everyone in this Chamber that the person does not know what is really the facts? Does not the rapporteur really owe an apology to the government in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194857	Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194858	No, I don't owe the government an apology. If one now listens to the rhetoric of the government in relation to this, where they say that we must close our borders, because we cannot accept refugees here in Denmark and that consequence must be passed through, then it also means that one can understand that the Germans are closing the border with Austria and also understand that the Austrians are closing the border with Hungary. It is precisely the same rhetoric, and it is also the one that will apply on the Jordan-Syria border, between Lebanon and Syria and between Turkey and Syria. Then we must also be able to defend the fact that they send people back to war, death and destruction; for the burden they bear is great compared to the burden we carry here in Denmark. So whatever we give of aid there, it is not enough to solve this refugee problem. And that is what we are discussing; it is how we resolve the situation that there are large flows of refugees in Europe right now. How do we solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194957	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503194958	The rapporteur must at least agree as far as this is concerned, since the rapporteur will not regret his mistakes and his violent attack on the government before, which was on a totally erroneous basis that a step in the right direction is two things, in fact two steps. One step is security, and we are now doing something about this through the military action in the coalition, and the other step is to ensure that there is something to be returned to, that is. provide reconstruction aid in the neighbourhood where Denmark is also at the forefront. So is it not the two fundamental necessities of ensuring that there is a future down there, which is exactly what the Danish Government has also taken full ownership of? I will come back to my question. If the Enhedslisten does not want to apologize to the government, do you not owe an apology to the many people, including Danish soldiers, to whom you have now made a mockery indirectly by not knowing at all what you are talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195052	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195053	I have to say that I find it incredibly difficult to see how we should have fucked up Danish soldiers. We have just had a debate on whether we should send a Danish contribution down to Iraq and Syria, where the Enhedslisten voted against precisely because we believe that this is completely the wrong way to go: to send more bombers and send more soldiers down to a war zone. If the government wanted to take its responsibilities seriously, it should be upgrading aid in the neighbourhood and working for a peaceful solution rather than sending more bombers down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195127	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195136	The number matters. When the boxes are open, the number means more. When you accept crimes committed by foreigners, the number can mean a lot. When you do not do enough about radicalisation and anti-democratic forces, the number can mean a great deal. That is why we need to change our approach to foreign policy in Denmark. It should be based on three basic principles: 1) self-reliance, 2) zero tolerance to crime, and 3) that foreigners, of course, cannot use their residence permit in Denmark to counter our popular rule. Denmark must, of course, help the persecuted and the people in need, but this must be done primarily in the neighbourhoods. If we get this second approach, the number will regulate by itself. So we do not need to discuss it with the number any longer, because then we will have a policy that will ensure that we only get those who contribute and that those who cannot find out will have to return home. Let me be quite clear: Denmark needs foreigners. There are many Europeans, 100,000, who work in Denmark. We should be glad to say thank you to them. There are many people from the rest of the world who contribute to the success of Danish companies and to Denmark's prosperity. We should be happy about that. The Danish People's Party has asked a question about the consequences of immigration. This is a good opportunity to talk about the fact that there is both something called refugees. We must help them primarily in the neighbourhoods, and we would also like to take some UN refugees, with whom Denmark can match itself in the camps down there, and then there is immigration, which must take place in such a way that people are self-supporting, do not commit crime and do not work against the Danish society. Of course, the whole world cannot live in Denmark, we can quickly agree on that. But Denmark must be an open society. That is what has laid the foundations for Denmark's wealth. We should not close ourselves or open a barn gate, but we should attract the right ones, so we will have a better Denmark and a richer Denmark. The Liberal Alliance makes its own proposal for adoption, which I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a consistent immigration policy must continue to be pursued so that people who are granted a residence permit in Denmark are self-supporting and law-abiding and respect for the rule of the people and the basic freedoms on which the country is built. Against this background, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to work towards a reduction in the part of immigration that does not contribute positively to Danish society, and to initiate initiatives that help to combat anti-democratic and extremist environments. The Danish Parliament wants Denmark's contribution to dealing with humanitarian crises as a result of e.g.: war and distress are given as help in the neighbourhoods where efforts are most useful, and not as today are targeted the reception and handling of a very large number of asylum seekers in Denmark. • V 51).
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195544	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Then there are some comments, first from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195558	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll starts by saying that the number matters, and then in the next sentence says that if there are open boxes, it means more. But I understood that the Liberal Alliance used to think that there should be open borders and closed boxes. If there are now closed boxes, does the number matter to the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195621	It is actually one of my favourite issues, so I would like to thank you for that. Because this gives me the opportunity to repeat that when we have talked about open borders, it is about open borders for people who already have a contract with a Danish employer, and not others. In other words, the number of immigrants is regulated according to what is needed. Then, of course, there is the refugee section, which is something else and where we will primarily help in the neighbourhood, but are also prepared to bring up a certain number of UN refugees here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195702	Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195704	Thank you. That's not how I remember it said at the time. The Liberal Alliance has proposed that there should be a total stop for two years for Denmark to accept refugees. I would like to ask a little more about the conventions that are there and whether they are just some that the Liberal Alliance believes should be broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195726	It is true that we have been proposing a humane moratorium on asylum for two years, which is that we are saying that asylum cannot be sought in Denmark itself, but that we are taking 4 000 UN quota refugees a year over the two years. This will save asylum costs at least 6 billion. kr. In the course of the 2 years and it is probably even conservatively set out which we can then use to help in Syria and Syria's vicinity. That's what's humane. The way we are going to do this is simply by saying that we are not going to follow the conventions for two years, but will use...
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195805	We may have to wait with the long explanation, because the time has actually elapsed. Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195811	Thank you. Now the debate here is about numbers and these 18%, which we can look forward to in 2050 with a foreign background. One of the pieces of legislation that has been best at limiting migration to Denmark has been the so-called 24-year rule here. On the website of the Liberal Alliance you write: "You must be able to marry the one you love, and as a couple you must be able to live together in Denmark. When the rapporteur said at the outset that the number matters, why will the Liberal Alliance abolish one of the pieces of legislation that has actually ensured that we can limit the amount of influx to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195854	Thank you. And you have to follow the Rules of Procedure as long as it is as it is and not use direct indictments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195900	Thank you. Well, the 24-year rule is such a good example of making knob-shooting legislation because you have poor basic legislation. That is why we like to break up the system and make sure that it is no longer possible to come to Denmark if you cannot support yourself and that it is no longer possible to stay here if you commit crime or work against the people's rule. In other words, we want a completely different immigration policy from the misguided immigration policy for which changing governments have been responsible. The truth is that Danish immigration policy does not work and has not worked, either when the Social Democracy has had power or when the VK government has had power. We then come up with a proposal for a way that one could imagine solving it and where the number will regulate itself, because only those that are needed will come. It is also the case that you can marry whoever you want and live in Denmark if you can support yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195954	Here you go, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503195955	It is a very beautiful such theoretical construction, that is to say, the assumption that you could change everything at once, and that the Liberal Alliance had the 90 mandates to vote it through. But I am getting a little nervous, so I really need to know whether the Liberal Alliance believes that until things become, as the Liberal Alliance would like them, the 24-year rule must still be abolished and thus open to further influxes. I mean, do we have to do this now before the big plan of the Liberal Alliance is in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200028	Here you go, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200031	If sir... Kaare Dybvad is so nervous, I think we should be more nervous about the asylum policy, because it means a much larger number than a change to the 24-year rule would mean. It is also about people who know that there is no requirement for self-reliance, but what we are talking about is that the prerequisite is that you can support yourself. It's a pre-requisite that if you commit a crime, you're out. I am sorry, then, that it has to disturb a solid world view of the fact that one can only solve the problems in the way one has not solved them for three or four decades, but it is probably time for some new ideas to make Denmark an open society, while at the same time being able to regulate the number. And there we have just allowed ourselves, in all humility, to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200121	Thank you. And it's really nice to see so many listeners. I just want to ask you to keep sitting down. The President is afraid that you can fall over the railing and that is not so good. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200134	Thank you. Now the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll advocates that a condition for obtaining a residence permit in Denmark is that you have a job or employment contract with an employer at home, I would like to know whether this means that the Liberal Alliance will then vote in favour of the proposal to abolish the green card scheme. Because there is no requirement for you to have a job in a company before you get there. That was one question. The second question is: if it is the case that you say that the only requirement for you to enter Denmark is that you have a contract of employment, it really means that you leave the management of immigration to the business community. Does the Liberal Alliance really have such confidence in the Danish Industry that they will be left with the control of foreign policy? After all, they are insatiable in terms of increasing labour supply by increasing immigration, I would just say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200224	We are going to vote against the proposal to abolish the green card system, and that is a little in the wake of Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Kaare Dybvad's question from before: That's the thing with those weird knob shots, so it's such a little light in the dark in Danish alien politics at the moment. But it is not an ideal arrangement. I'd like to give you that. Martin Henriksen is right. In relation to whether we want to let Danish Industry determine Danish foreign policy, the answer is no. I have just explained what we think Danish immigration policy should be like. And you cannot simply increase the supply of labour through our proposals, because it requires that there is a job, that someone will pay you to do a job, that you pay taxes and, moreover, that you abide by the laws of the country. So there is still clear regulation. The genius of allowing business needs to control the demand for foreigners is, of course, that it will adapt. Only those who are needed will be able to get in, and this is, in fact, a very smart system, unlike the system we have today, where it is almost easier to get in if there is no need for one, while Mr. Martin Henriksen and others will make sure that those who are then needed cannot get in. And I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200329	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200332	But that answer doesn't make any sense. When the Liberal Alliance backs the green card system, it really does not make any sense at all, because if you had to take Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's words for good goods must also help to abolish the greencard system. After all, you can enter Denmark without having a job on hand. So I look forward to the Liberal Alliance voting in favour of this proposal, because then one step closer to what the Liberal Alliance says is the goal, and that is what policy is about: steps in the right direction. Another question I have is that last year was immigration, i.e. the number of people who were granted a residence permit in Denmark, approx. 80,000, and on top of that there were approx. 100,000 people who got a visa for Denmark. Is that too big, in the opinion of the Liberal Alliance? Can Denmark handle such a large immigration, whether you have a job or not? Is that figure at an appropriate level? Should it be higher, should it be lower?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200422	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200424	If you can't get the one you love, you have to love the one you get, you said in the old days. It is probably politically incorrect to say such things now, but that certainly applies to the green card system. When I cannot have the policy that I would like to have, I must try to see whether I can nevertheless ensure that Danish industry can get the labour they need through other schemes. There is such a sort of bandage on the wound because we have such a lousy immigration policy as we do. In relation to the second, whether the number is perfect, whether we have, like, achieved, what can be said, the perfect balance for how many foreigners should come last year, we just see it in a slightly different way. We see it in this way that it is wrong because there are over 20,000 asylum seekers coming. We clearly believe that this is too high a number of asylum seekers. But it is clear that if it were the case that the number reflected the demand of companies that could not get the workforce, then that would be a good thing. So it is not so crucial whether it is 80,000 or 75,000 in one year or another; the crucial thing is that it is some who can and will contribute to Danish society and behave properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200536	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200545	In other words, the borders should not be open, they should be airtightly closed, so that only those who have been given a job or are otherwise to be allowed to do so by the Liberal Alliance can be allowed in. I would like to hear: is there not in the liberal heart just a tiny corner that says that if the neighbour's house is on fire, then we will help, at least the children and the women? So, if it burns in Syria, which is the backyard of Europe, will we, as long as the fire is there, help just a little bit with a little money, a place to live, a little clothes, a little food and things like that? Is it really a real picture that the rapporteur gives of the liberal heart when it is just closed if you can't take care of yourself, then it's just closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200629	This is a rather strange double question, because the answer is yes, we want to help the neighbor when his house is on fire, we want to help him, the wife and the children. And that is precisely why we want to help in the surrounding areas where it burns, instead of getting all the neighbours to live in a small apartment high up. What we are talking about, like the French Foreign Minister, who is now an official concept, is that we get more money in the neighbourhood than we do in Denmark. So we're gonna help out there's actually no one here in Parliament who financed will help more than the Liberal Alliance. I am proud of that, it warms my liberal heart, I think it is humane, I think it is right, and I really think that Mr. Christian Juhl should back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200718	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200720	I do, but I think it seems a little double moral to talk like that: we want to help, as long as it's not us. Money is the only thing we can afford to give, neighbor love we forget. In Jordan, there are currently more than 20%. refugees. That country is about to sink. If it breaks down, they're looking elsewhere. I'd do the same if I was a fugitive. In Lebanon it is the same. It is a very fragile state that can no longer cope. At the moment, we are stretching the arch to the limit by giving them 40 per cent. the minimum that the UN has set up to live for in the two countries. It is about to explode, which means that it is a myth to talk about neighbourhoods. And it's an unpleasant self-goodness that you hear from the government representative when you say that we help and we help. We don't even give 40%. of what is to be used for refugees who are in the neighbourhood at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200814	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200817	Well, I don't know who the government representative was in that sentence, at least it's not me. The point is, sir. Christian Juhl is right that there is not enough help for Syria and Syria's vicinity. That's why we want to get more money to help these people. That's the most correct thing to do. We have even said that of the 6 billion we give priority, priority must be given to those who do not get enough to eat in Syria, first, those who do not get enough nutrition in neighbouring countries, then, and, as point three, to help the Syrian children's schooling in the neighbourhood. That is the right way to help, and that is, if we are to use the rapporteur's expression, the most neighborly approach, because we can help more people by helping in the neighbourhood. Is it neighborly to take a small part and go up to us and then, by the way, end up with them not getting a job and not being integrated, instead of helping a larger share closer to where they already live? Policy is to give priority, I would say to Mr. Christian Juhl, and if you have a certain amount of money and the other parties have that in addition to Enhedslisten... then we need to find out how we can help most people for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200912	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200924	Thank you. I would like to ask about the policy of the Liberal Alliance. If a young man from Bangladesh can present an employment contract with a Danish masonry master, should he be able to obtain a work and residence permit in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200942	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200947	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200950	Does the Liberal Alliance demand that the contract of employment should be paid under Danish agreements, or does the salary not matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503200958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201000	In fact, I think we have been so reckless to do exactly that, i.e. to make demands and so on. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201014	Then it's settled. Here you go. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201020	Thank you for confirming that the Liberal Alliance continues to want to abolish the 24-year rule. That seems to me to be an important source of information to the electorate. I have, of course, seen the Liberal Alliance's proposal for adoption in this debate. After all, it differs only from the proposal for adoption made by the other bourgeois parties by the fact that the Liberal Alliance does not want to restrict non-western immigration. Otherwise, we are very much in agreement on the text that could be adopted. I just want to ask why the Liberal Alliance does not think it is particularly important to limit non-Western immigration. The Liberal Alliance therefore believes that it is unimportant where immigrants come from, whether they come from Western countries or whether they do not come from Western countries. Why doesn't it matter to the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201117	That is because we want to give the opportunity for a good cand to come. polit. from e.g. Syria and become part of Danish society. We really appreciate it when people like that come along. If there are 100 skilled economists from a non-Western country, it would be nice if the 100 economists were needed. And if there is a need for 100 masons, like Mr. Mattias Tesfaye asked, so it would be nice if there were 100 masons, wherever they might come from in the world, if we lack them. We do not think that Danish companies should be limited by what opportunities there are. Denmark must attract the best immigrants. They are the ones who can take care of a job and contribute and do not commit crime and do not work against the Danish people's rule. It's the best, no matter if they're from Syria or South America.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201212	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201214	That is to say, if we have a skilled economist from a Western country and we have a skilled economist from the Middle East or India or another culture and they are equally capable, none of them commit crime, none of them work against the Danish people's government, does it not matter to the Liberal Alliance whether it is one or the other who comes to Denmark? It is not the case that the Liberal Alliance sees a separate problem in which culture people come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201250	It would be strange, however, if the case of the three economists from three different countries was now I cannot even remember which countries were mentioned as being equally skilled, it was then that it should be other than the company that was interested in hiring those who had to decide who gets the job. Should it be, sir? Rasmus Jarlov? It would, however, be absurd to imagine that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov had to decide who should be employed in the companies. Excuse me, but it's pure socialism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201317	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201333	Today a debate has been called for, based on the growing number of immigrants. I understand from the text of the question that those who have raised the question are concerned about the cohesion of Danish society in the light of this population growth. But in the alternative, we disagree that cohesion presupposes as homogeneous and uniform a population as possible. We disagree that cohesion is threatened by diversity. Diversity and, above all, the ability to accommodate and exploit forces in this way are a key part of society's cohesion. This certainly applies to the cohesion on which we believe a rich and good society should be built. Coherence isn't about being the same. It's about trusting and being curious, it's about learning from each other. The context of Danish society is based, in my best opinion, on open mind, openness, equality, tolerance and trust, as well as a welfare system that takes care of those who need help. It is based on giving each other freedom and opportunities to create the life we want. It is based on liberal freedoms and social equality ideals, and then it is based on humanistic values of equal value and equal right to citizenship. So it is not values that are peculiar to Danes who were born with two Danish parents and grew up with Dannebrog in the garden. These are values that people all over the globe can possess and have grown up with or wanted to live out. You can be German, French, Indian, Afghan, etc. and at the same time have these values. That is why I am not always so convinced that we are doing anyone a favour by calling them Danish values. These are values that we subscribe to in Denmark and that we must safeguard. But it is not the values you necessarily live out because you are a Dane, and certainly not the values you can be expected not to possess, just because your parents are not Danish. When you hear the debates on integration and aid for those people who are currently fleeing civil war and terrorist movements, you can be left with the impression that cohesion is a scarce resource that we need to protect. The more people who want to be involved, the less cohesion power there is for all of us. But it's not like that. Coherence is not a static size. It's something we create together every single day. We create it by seeing each other as resources and not as competitors. Over the last few months, we have witnessed the adoption of legislative proposals and symbolic policy measures that have disregarded quite fundamental values on which Danish society is founded, in an attempt to let people know that they are not welcome. We have created the idea that as one of the richest countries in the world we cannot afford to help people in need, that it will overturn our entire welfare system and reduce our well-being. But if something threatens our cohesion, it is precisely the attempt to play out citizens against each other and create scare pictures. It is precisely the way we talk about and treat each other that challenges the cohesion force, not the number of people. I agree that our cohesion is based on fundamental values and fundamental rights, which we must uphold. This is so much about freedoms. It is precisely they who ensure that everyone can thrive together. It is quite true that we must stand by these values and rights. They must not be bent down, but that also means that we must be consistent in our defences and not be selective according to how it fits into our own political agendas. I am not concerned that increased population growth will affect our identity. But I can be concerned that we are already in the process of letting go of some of the values that characterise us. So, although I do not share the premise of this question debate, I certainly think it is appropriate to consider which society we go and build together every day and which values we will build on and build on. Of course, we can include the people who come here for the next decades, but it is clear that we need to be better at integrating people into the labour market, into civil society and into society. Here we need to think in new ways, be creative and create new opportunities across society. Most important of all for successful integration is that people contribute to the society in which they live and that they feel a shared ownership. We must be much better at strengthening the enormous potential of civil society, which has been demonstrated in recent years, when a great many people have stood ready to take people on the run and help them to find their way into their new communities. A prerequisite for success is that we stop telling each other that Denmark is too small a country to accommodate diversity. We must have the courage to let go of that story and instead be united in creating a new one based on the potential of the individual and with a mutual desire to learn from each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201838	Thank you. And there are some brief comments, first from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201845	I would like to ask a little more about the integration policy of the Alternative and the case of this summer, when the then integration rapporteur of the Alternative, Uzma Ahmed, said that if you did not want to learn Danish or did not support equality, then you could not be here and then you should be sent back. And Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has been quoted as saying that the rapporteur was not muzzled but was asked to keep a low profile. Then I am just surprised that one would like to put up another candidate, the former spokesman of the Grimmøjmoskeen, Mohammad Sabah Ahmad, who has made bomb threats because he did not want to go to Aarhus University and has been the spokesman for a mosque where the leading imam has directly called for the killing of Danish Jews, and where the alternative during that process continued to say that one has full confidence in the candidate in question. What's the difference between these two candidates? And does the alternative not consider it problematic to have the confidence in a person who has been the spokesman for the Grimhøjmosque, while the alternative does not consider it a problem that a rapporteur says that you should be sent back if you are not in favour of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503201959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202001	Those are two very different people and cases you're talking about. Uzma was actually a candidate. She ran for the Folketing and was a very good candidate in the election campaign. What was the matter was that Uzma did not make a statement on the basis of the policy of the alternative, and that, of course, must also be taken care of as rapporteur. In relation to the other candidate you are talking about, I think, of course, that there should be room for one to change attitudes and become wiser, even if for 3 days one has been the spokesperson for a mosque that we can have all sorts of attitudes towards. I think it is very important to have people who go around ringing doorbells in their residential area to get people to go down and vote and participate in democracy instead of listening to those who want people to stay away and turn their backs on democracy. These are the kind of people I want to take part in our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202052	You don't use direct indictments when you're standing on the platform or sitting in the seats. We must follow the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202102	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and the alternative about the situation of the Jews in Denmark. For it is no secret that some of the non-western immigration has made it uncertain for Danish Jews. Many of those who have harassed Danish Jews, and unfortunately it ended with a killing here a year ago, have been people with roots in the Middle East. That is why I am surprised that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, from the Alternative, praises Hamas and says that it is a freedom movement and that they are not so bad, even though they commit war crimes against Jews.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202139	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202141	I think sir... Lars Aslan Rasmussen refers to an interview which is about a year old and from Radio24syv, where Mrs Ulla Sandbæk talks about the situation in Palestine and Israel, which we are about to debate here a little later today. What Mrs Sandbæk said, and which she was also out to clarify after the interview, was that we need to look at how we can achieve integration between Gaza and the West Bank so that we can have a serious potential for a Palestinian state. She made that clear after the interview, and I'm sure Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has also been able to find when he has been looking for the media for so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202221	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202228	I would like to address some of the plus words that the rapporteur uses in his speech. It is always nice to use words as cohesion and values of freedom, but it is the more interesting what lies in those words. The rapporteur stands on the platform and says that cohesion is absolutely essential. So I would like to ask: is there a limit to how many Denmark can accept, who come from outside, refugees, immigrants, if we are to maintain cohesion? Or is it infinite how many outside Denmark can accept if we are to continue to have a society based precisely on democratic values and where the Danish values of freedom, of which we all pride ourselves, are the cornerstones of society? Is there a number limit on how many people can come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202316	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202323	As I feel that I said very clearly in the speech, many of the values that are now being called Danish are universal values. It is therefore values on which human rights are based; on which international humanitarian law is based; it is not very Danish. They are humanitarian, but they are values on which we also build Danish society and which we must safeguard. That's why it has nothing to do with the number. It has something to do with how we manage to work with the people who come here. As I also say, there is, of course, a major task in terms of integration. But the values themselves are not watered down by the fact that there are other people, because they are also values that people can take with them, both from Afghanistan, from London, from New York and from Delhi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202359	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202402	The values of freedom that most of us are so incredibly proud of apply in Denmark do not apply to everyone in Denmark. We have seen examples from among others. The Grimhøjmoske, where deeply radicalized imams keep women, children and young people in an iron grip. That is why I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur whether he believes that the values of freedom of radicalized Imams outweigh the values of freedom of women and children and young people, which have finally been put out of business. That's what we see. They're off the hook. Is it more important to protect the values of freedom of radicalized imams than those of children, young people, women and others who are held in an irony of social control in deeply radicalised environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202457	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202458	No, of course not, and I do not know from where Mrs Trine Bramsen can get the idea that the alternative should have that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202504	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202508	Thank you. We could hear from the Enhedslisten that they are opposed to the scheme where each year a certain quota of refugees is allocated to each Danish municipality. We could hear from the Enhedslisten that they were in favour of refugees being able to decide for themselves where to settle. Does the alternative agree with Enhedslisten in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202535	Basically, we believe that quotas may have to be used when you do not have other tools. That is also the same thing we have said in relation to the whole refugee situation in Europe, so that when we cannot distribute in other ways with other incentives, we may need to use quotas as a tool. But we also believe that there are a lot of things you can do in Denmark to create good living conditions that can attract new citizens to all kinds of parts of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202605	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202608	Thank you. I would like to say that I think it is quite okay if the alternative rapporteur does not know whether the party is in favour of abolishing these quotas, but then I would like the rapporteur to say so. And if the rapporteur knows that, I would like to know whether the alternative will vote yes or no to abolishing quotas. Then I have one more question. We could hear from the Liberal Alliance that they were in favour of any human being on the planet who could obtain a contract of employment with a Danish company on contractual terms having a work and residence permit in Denmark. Does the alternative agree with the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202642	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202644	I cannot say how we are going to vote on something that we have not discussed on whether we are going to abolish, that refugees are being distributed around. But we've been talking a lot about • and we think that you should use all kinds of incentives other than quotas to make people want to live everywhere in Denmark. And we believe that there are strong values and that there are beautiful places to live throughout Denmark where also new citizens want to live. In relation to whether people should be able to come here and get a job, if they have a contract with a Danish company, I cannot see that there is in any way anything wrong with it, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202719	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202724	Thank you very much. The rapporteur would not agree that there was something called Danish values, and I might interpret it as meaning that the rapporteur did not think that Danish values mattered, but I would nevertheless like to go into that discussion a little, because one can ask the alternative: does equality mean anything, or does freedom of expression mean anything, or does it mean that women and men can break with their parents' standards, something in a society? Because I have an assumption that the Alternative believes that it matters, believes that it is important to defend those values, and if we then assume that and you do not have to agree that an increased influx and a significantly increased population with a non-western background put those values under pressure, would that cause the alternative to vote for laws that would limit immigration? Would this cause the alternative to start looking at how we could make sure that there were fewer people coming to Denmark than there are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202823	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202825	Apparently, I need to clarify my speech. I say that these are not special values. Nor do I see equality as a special Danish value. I see it as a value on which we also build our Danish society, but it does not make it unique Danish. There are also other societies, other nations that also build their cohesion in their societies on those things. I don't see that it's necessarily supposed to be these ifs and ifs. Well, these values are universal, as I say. We build on them, but I also know Japanese, Chinese, I know Palestinians, and I know Kenyans, who also build on these values and who want to be part of a Danish society with the values on which we believe society is based, and that doesn't mean they can't live up to these values just because they come from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202915	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, please. Excuse me, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503202923	Thank you. It is, of course, fine that the rapporteur thinks that it is possible to adapt to Danish values or western values, or whatever one would call them. But that does not change the fact that the question was whether the rapporteur thinks that it is a problem if some people do not choose to do so, i.e. if some people come from abroad to Denmark and choose to say that they are not interested in equality, that they are not interested in freedom of expression, that they are not interested in being able to do away with the standards of their parents. If that is the case, and I have an assumption that this is the case in some places, will the Alternative agree to take action against it so that we can stop it? Because these are the values that we share, whatever we call them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203006	I do not call them Western values either, because they also exist in the East, and they also exist in the South. So I really think it's a very, very strange premise for this discussion to think that it's a ownership we just have in Denmark or in the West. As I said in the speech, we believe so much that if people come here and want to be a part of Danish society, we must integrate them, and we must also teach them about the values that we build our society on, not Danish values, but universal values.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203033	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203037	I would like to ask the alternative how they view the immigration of non-western immigrants into Denmark over the last 30 years. Has it been an overall advantage for Denmark, or has it been a disadvantage for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203056	The fact that we have not managed to properly integrate people who have come here into society has been a huge disadvantage, but as far as those who have come here at the beginning of the 1990s from the Balkans are, of course, fully integrated citizens in our society. People have come from all sorts of other parts of the world, as we today call our friends and colleagues. So the big challenge we face, the big problem we have, is that we need to find out how to achieve proper integration, how to involve all parties in society, and that is both the social partners and, to the very highest extent, civil society too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203128	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Rasmus Jarlov one more brief comment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203131	Well, that wasn't quite the answer to the question, but okay, then I'll ask you about what I got the answer to. I get it that way, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that if there is good integration, immigration of the type that we have had and have to Denmark from non-western countries will be a gain for Denmark. I would like to ask you very briefly whether this is correctly understood. And if that's what I'm gonna ask you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has some examples of countries where integration has succeeded, so that this type of immigration has become a gain for a European host country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203217	I will not generally look at the immigration that has been in Denmark and say that it is all a failure or that it is all a success. There are, of course, many nuances there is something that is really successful and there are other things where it really leaves something to be desired for integration. I think that what is worth looking at is how we can actually achieve proper integration in our society today. Hopefully we'll learn more from everything we've done. Every time we make a mistake, every time we do something good, we learn some good experiences with us. That is why I think we should sit down and look a little more undogically at how we create proper integration, where we can welcome new citizens into our society and make them valuable people for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203253	Thank you. There are still three brief comments to make, and the next one is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203300	Thank you. I merely gave some thought to the rapporteur's reply to my colleague, Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, concerning the candidate and the former spokesperson of the Grimhøjmoskeen. The rapporteur then said: 'Well, it is a mosque that you can have all sorts of attitudes'. So I would like to hear what the alternative's attitude to the Grimhøjmosque and to the discussions that have been about the Grimhøjmosque is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203339	Well, when I was here in a debate about Danish values, which I actually believe had been raised by the same authors, we were also discussing the Grimmøjmoskeen, and there I clearly distanced myself from the way these imams referred to one should live in a society, as was shown in the clips on TV 2, where we learned about the Grimmøjmoskeen. But does this mean that I disapprove of a person who has been a spokesperson for this place for three days and who has otherwise worked to create democratic citizenship in his local community? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203408	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203410	Yeah, now I didn't specifically ask about the candidate, but about the Grimhøjmoskeen. However, the rapporteur himself highlights the candidate and defends him again, and that is the same candidate as the rapporteur says for three days, but it was two years ago, and in the meantime the same person has distanced himself from the TV 2 broadcast and said that TV 2 has manipulated the cut. But now I hear the alternative. That's kind of what I was interested in. There are examples here, of course, that it might be appropriate to discuss them in a parliament. After all, we can see what is happening in Sweden, where the Miljö party has found it very difficult to deal with candidates who are very controversial in their positions and who are also challenging the way we really perceive Danish democracy. That is why it is interesting to hear that we now have an example, which I can hear also takes up a great deal with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203501	I don't quite know where the question was. However, the questioner himself said that it was in line with the other questioner's question which specifically addressed this candidate, and so I am going to elaborate on my answers so that hopefully it will be more understandable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203514	The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203521	Yeah, I gotta think, 'cause it's about quotas. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist: If you now introduced quotas for the municipalities, you could have them moved out in some places. We did that when we had refugee centres in the past. But you can't imagine that we should have some rules that tied people, which when they lived there, weren't allowed to move to the neighbouring municipality? And so it would be free anyway, hopefully. I personally would like to recommend that instead of ensuring that there is work or training places and housing for everyone in all municipalities, and that it was a duty for the municipalities, because then there was much, much greater chance that there was free choice for people to settle where they wanted to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203612	As I also said very clearly, I believe that we must work on methods which are totally different from quotas. I believe that incentives to create a good life are, among other things, incentives to create a good life. work, it's the good school for its children, and it's the good civil society that accepts a • are much more important tools for making people want to live throughout Denmark. For it is quite true that we cannot tie people to not have to move away from the City of Copenhagen if they are placed there, or from Kalundborg, if they are placed there. But it is clear that we need to look at where it is that is housing in Denmark. That is why I think we should also look at what competences the new citizens bring with them and where it makes sense in relation to the needs you have around the country, to offer people a housing they can move into.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203655	The questioner for a brief remark,
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203657	Yes, because there is also a reverse problem. I talked to someone who lived in such a rich man's ghetto, and he said it wasn't pleasant either, that is, where the hedge was very, very tall and such things. It is hard to say that they must be spread out in Denmark, because then there is an outcry from the bourgeois parties, I believe. That is why I believe that we must work to provide free choice, and that is where I think it is best that we try to help those who have the least means to do so and who have the most difficulty in being able to pay for themselves, at least to have reasonable opportunities. And that is why I think we should distribute them in principle also in Europe, but I can see that there is an advantage there when some close the gates completely. But there they are allowed, once they are located in one country, to move on to the next country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203743	Well, I fully agree that there are so many tools we can work with that are not about quotas. What I said in the way I was saying was that I understand perfectly well that at some point, especially when we talk about the refugee situation in Europe, we will have to use quotas as a tool, as it obviously does not work in any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203758	The last thing I have noted for the moment for a brief remark is Mr Beazley's report. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203807	Thank you. It is understood by the alternative that all people who come are a resource. And that is actually a very short question: does the alternative rapporteur Hizb ut-Tahir and the imams in the Grimmøjmosque consider a resource?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203824	My acquaintance Hizb ut-Tahrir is not a person. But yes, we regard all people as resources, we need to find out how to integrate best into our society, and we believe that we need to work to have a good and coherent society. So, do I think that imams that preach slightly monstrous things in our society are a resource? I am sure that they have resources, and we will help to find them together in Denmark precisely because we have a strong cohesion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203853	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203855	Well, I can't wait to see that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Nordqvist will head over to the Grimhøjmoskeen and have a little dialogue with them. It could help, even if I have my doubts. But are they a resource? Now the rapporteur will not accept this concept in relation to Hizb ut-Tahrir, because it is not individual people, but an association that organises meetings where women are so stowed next door and should preferably not say anything; who walks around the streets and campaign for a non-voting vote in the parliamentary elections; and who harass decent citizens of Muslim orientation who may wish to do so. Is that a resource? And is it a resource when the imams in the Grimhøjmosque urge to knock the wife in places where it cannot be seen? What's the resource about these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503203948	As to whether it is a resource, what the people referred to by the questioner are doing there, I would say: no, it is not a resource they have when they do those things. But does this mean that they have no resources in their lives? No, I believe that every human being has resources. That is why we need a proper integration effort, and that is why we need a strong civil society that can help people to live out their resources. But, of course, it's like sir. Søren Espersen writes up here, not a resource.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no more for short remarks, so we will continue with the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204022	Thank you for the floor and I regret my nasal sound. If you come to Denmark as a refugee, you have to work if you can work. This, of course, requires that you have access to work. It is difficult to ask people to contribute and then prevent them from working. It is not just pointless; it is actually counterproductive. If you come to Denmark, you must, of course, abide by the law and respect fundamental democratic principles, freedoms and gender equality. We cannot accommodate all refugees in Denmark. We cannot accommodate all refugees in Europe. They cannot accommodate all refugees in Jordan or Lebanon or in Turkey. They can accommodate more if we support more, so let action follow the fine words. If you come as a foreigner to Denmark to fill a job or with qualifications to look for a job, this is quite a different situation than if you come as a refugee. It's actually such a different situation that it seems quite absurd to mess it all up as it happens with this query. There is no distinction in this question between refugees and immigrants. That's what I heard, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked for questions earlier today, but apparently this only applies when it serves the purpose of the Danish People's Party. Why on earth does a majority here in the Folketing consistently speak of limiting the number of people from non-western countries who can come to Denmark? This means that skilled Indians, Chinese and Koreans are not welcome. It is both stupid, narrow-minded and not least harmful to Danish companies and their opportunities to create more jobs in Denmark. And since it is all messed up, does that also mean that if the barrel bombs jumped in Brazil and a terrorist movement ravaged in South America, it is not a problem to receive refugees from there, or where exactly is the limit going to be Western? I do not think I received any answers when I asked earlier. You're out on a nasty slope. You distinguish between people on ethnicity and geographical affiliation, and you all put in the same booth. If you're not western, you're not welcome. This is not the way forward for Denmark to become a clever, rich and inventive country that offers more opportunities for more people. I will read out the proposal for adoption by the Enhedslisten, Alternative and Radical Left: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a policy on foreigners must be pursued which contributes to rapid integration and prevents the formation of parallel societies in Denmark. The Folketing wants all citizens in Denmark to become part of society's communities, and thus also that everyone respects fundamental democratic principles, freedoms and gender equality. Against this background, the Danish Parliament notes that initiatives must be taken to counter anti-democratic and extremist environments, repression and extreme social control and promote equality and equal treatment of all citizens. Parliament calls on the government to follow closely the development of integration efforts and to ensure that more people with a different ethnic background have access to the labour market as soon as possible. • V 52).
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204431	Thank you. There is, for the time being, a short note, and that is Mr Beazley's point of order. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204438	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about the extent of immigration. Last year there were approx. 80,000 people who got a residence permit in Denmark, and on top of that comes approx. 100,000, who got a visa. But if we stick to those who were granted a residence permit, I would ask: is it Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's assessment and the Radical Left's assessment that 80,000 people who have migrated to Denmark a year and are granted a residence permit are an appropriate level? Is it too violent, or is it thought that the level should be raised? Because there is, for example. some in industry who believe that there is a need for even more foreign labour. I mean, how does the Radical Left feel about it coming about? 80,000 people to Denmark a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204519	I think the rapporteur here confirms that the rapporteur does not comply with his President's call to distinguish between refugees and immigrants. It came as late as this afternoon, here in this Parliament hall. I am surprised that the rapporteur cannot distinguish. I am quite concerned that Danish companies are able to attract exactly the labour they need when they need it. We in the Radical Left have reported this very clearly. We want a bottleneck guarantee because it is the assurance that Denmark can remain a rich, productive and innovative country that Danish companies can fill the positions they have available. The refugee problem is completely different. It is about how the world welcomes refugees, how Europe welcomes refugees and how we welcome refugees in Denmark. I think there are too many refugees in the world. I think there are too many refugees in Europe and also in Denmark. I believe that because there is war and too many people have to flee, even from the vicinity, because we are unable to create conditions there that give them any kind of future. So 80,000 refugees are far too many. Labour for Danish companies is something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204639	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204642	We distinguish between refugees and immigrants in the Danish People's Party. The problem is that we are the only party in the Folketing to do so. That is why refugees turn into immigrants. That is what we are discussing on the part of the Danish People's Party. But I didn't get an answer to the question. In other words, the Radical Left believes that an immigration of 80 000 people a year is of course people who get refugee status, foreign labour, students, family reunification etc. We believe from the Danish People's Party that it is too violent that it is too many people. And when we can then see, if you look at the population projection, that over a million people in Denmark, when we reach 2050, will have an immigrant background or will be descendants of immigrants, we also think it is too violent. But what does the Radical Left think? Is it an immigration that Denmark can absorb, or is it simply too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204735	I think that these are too many refugees, and I hope we can help much, much more in the neighbourhood, so that more people will be able to stay there and have the opportunity to return to where they come from when there is peace. The rapporteur knows as well as I do that we cannot quantify how many refugees are coming. The rapporteur's party chairman, to whom I must refer again, said so wisely at the radical meeting here in January, our New Year's conference, that setting a figure of how many refugees can be received in Denmark was something he would never do. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204814	The next brief remark is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204818	Thank you very much. The rapporteur often attaches very great importance to the size of Danish development aid. It is a fact that our government spends more on development aid in the neighbourhood than when the rapporteur's own party sat on government power. Does the rapporteur think that our government is pursuing the right development policy or that the rapporteur's government did so then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204847	You just have to breathe in. I believe that if the rapporteur's party wants to help further in the neighbourhood and in general with development aid, so that further flows of refugees are not created by cutting development aid, then I can promise the rapporteur that the Radical Left will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204911	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204914	But can the rapporteur explain why the rapporteur is so critical of our government, given that our government is spending more development aid in the neighbourhood than when you were sitting on government power?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204926	I think I just answered. This is because the government and the rapporteur's party have cut development aid and thus contribute to the creation of fewer opportunities for reconstruction, and it contributes to the emergence of new flows of refugees around the world. I and the Radical Left are very, very happy to contribute both to setting up development aid and to helping further in the neighbourhoods. I very much hope that the rapporteur's party and the government will comply with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503204956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. I can then inform you that the Minister will come next, and I understand that Mr. Martin Henriksen and Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll also wishes to speak in the second round. But first it is the rapporteur for the SF, Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205020	Thank you. Denmark is under pressure. There is no doubt about that in a world where increasing inequality and climate problems have led to more wars and conflicts. It's conflicts that force people to flee. So my bid and that of the SF is that if we want to limit the influx of refugees, we must ensure that all people have a home from which they do not have to escape. We must ensure that children can attend school and that everyone has food and drink. Or they'll run. Not many weeks ago we were with the Integration Committee here in the Parliament in Jordan and experienced the refugee camp down there. I think it's the world's second largest. Their clear answer was that they do not want to go to Europe and risk their lives on the road, but when the choice stands between it and seeing that their children have no future, they felt obliged to do so. So I think that the focus should be on giving more money to the neighbourhoods. It has been seen in the past that a kind of Marshall aid has set a continent in motion, and I think it is actually the same thing that needs to be done, so that we give children something to grow up to and young people a future, and in this way we will also be able to stop the flows towards both Europe and Denmark. I think the Enhedslisten has said this very well. I do not agree with everything Enhedslisten says in this debate. They say they wish there were no refugees. So would I, because the fact that you are a fugitive means that there is something fundamentally wrong, because then you flee your home. Meanwhile, we must do what we can to deal with the refugee crisis here in Denmark in a way that means that Denmark can keep up. I think it will be very important that you start to target your help further. There are a great many people coming to Europe and also to Denmark, who do not have the right to asylum, who come here in search of a better life. That is understandable, but nevertheless we cannot afford to help them at a time when the flow of refugees is marked. So we need to get those people home more quickly who do not have the right to asylum, and then we need to speed up the efforts of those who have the right to asylum. We need to be better at integrating. That is one of the issues that the question is about. How will we include such a large population growth in Danish society? It is nice that the Danish People's Party has taken an interest in how to include the group that comes to Denmark. My bid will be to focus more on inclusion than on exclusion, so these people come and create value and not become a problem for themselves and also for our country. In fact, I believe that we have been excluding for too long. We have made a failed housing policy, which for many years and many governments has led to parallel societies coming around. I've experienced it myself. I come from a municipality where we have had several vulnerable residential areas, where I myself, when I was younger, and also others I know, have not dared to go through the residential areas because one has known how much happened in there: Little brothers have been recruited by big brothers, child guards are walking around with bulletproof vests, and I have seen police cars patrolling constantly. These are vulnerable residential areas located right here in our country. This is the result of the lack of focus on housing policy by changing governments. It is also clear, especially in recent times, that in some of these parallel societies there is a large increase in social control, with almost parallel legal communities. So I would say to the Danish People's Party that our idea of how to include this huge population growth in Danish society is simply that fewer parallel societies need to be created. This is not done by halving the benefits of refugees so that they can only afford to live in vulnerable residential areas. This is not done by introducing a ceiling on cash benefits, so the socially disadvantaged will have to move into the ghetto regions. On the contrary, you create more ghettos that way. That's what you do by building more cheap homes. Together we could reduce the basic capital so that the municipalities could afford to build more homes. This is done by ensuring combined and flexible rental so that you can mix the masses of the population so that we don't get these parallel societies. This is done with better opportunities for urban renewal and demolition. We have together, sir. Martin Henriksen and I, visited, I think it was the Gellerup Park, where something was actually torn down to build something new. It was something you had to start, and then you do it by making sure that at least 25%. of general housing is part of the new building. This is something that the Danish People's Party is changing. It will also lead to more parallel societies. As far as supporting democratic forces is concerned, the focus is on anti-radicalisation, but the focus should also be on combating social control of more shelters, more retirement homes with after-protection and with municipalities that have a clear readiness to help the people who have been under social control out of the parallel society in which they exist. So I'm not saying any of this is gonna be easy. I do not think that it is just easy to get the large amount of people coming to the country right now, included and integrated into our society, but I am sure that a good step on the way will be to take a hard line against the parallel societies that are, and not create more of them, and to help people break out of social control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205548	There are two comments to be made briefly, and the first is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205554	Thank you. I fully agree with Mr. Jacob Mark in that we must combat parallel societies, and the best way to do so is by reducing the influx and the number coming to Denmark. I tried to get an answer from the radical rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, but could not really get it, and it may be that Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Jacob Mark can answer on behalf of the Socialist People's Party. Last year there were approx. 80,000 people who were granted a residence permit in Denmark, and this is what we in the Danish People's Party think is a very large figure. They are both refugees, they are family-run, they are foreign workers and so on, that is all. - Is that after Mr. Knox? Jacob Mark's perception is too big a figure, or is it at an appropriate level?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205632	I think it's too big a number. Because that is a signal that something is wrong when so many people have to flee up to Denmark. That is why I say quite clearly that we need to start some efforts, and that is also why I have said from the start of my speaking time on this platform: yes, I would like to limit the flow towards Denmark. Because the fact that there is an influx, the fact that the world is on the run right now, means that there are parts of this world where there are so unequal relationships that it is not good. So yes, I would like to limit it, and yes, it is too many, but the handles that the Danish People's Party wants to screw on will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205707	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205710	I would like to acknowledge that answer, that is to say, that Mr. Jacob Mark says it's too many. I think that is a positive answer. Now we in the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party here in Parliament also agree on some measures, believe it or not, among others. to combat social dumping, but that is also to say that it will have an effect that there will actually be a little fewer. So I would like to sign for that answer, and I would urge that consideration be given to voting in favour of all the restrictions proposed by the Danish People's Party in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205739	When I want to sign for our good cooperation in relation to some of the other things, it is of course because it is a question of counteracting social dumping. If we are to counteract the flow of refugees, it will not work to change the laws of jewelry and the rules of family reunification, but then it will work to create a more equal world by providing help to the neighbourhoods. So if we can agree on that, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205756	Before I give the floor to the next one for a brief comment, I would just like to say that the report that everyone is waiting for is now before us. But I choose to finish this item on the agenda before I interrupt the sitting and then we start the extra item. So I now give the floor to the next questioner, who is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205818	Thank you. The rapporteur says the great population growth, and the Danish People's Party is talking about the great influx. So we are gradually choosing words which are so dramatic; many of the rapporteurs should be novelists rather than politicians, I think. Does the rapporteur think that an approach to the Danish population of people from other countries of 3 per thousand is a major problem for a rich and well-consolidated and very coherent society like the Danish one?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205852	Yeah, I mean that, actually. I don't always agree with Mr. Knox. Martin Damm, KL's chairman, but when he in a blog, I think it was, asked what we do with municipality no. 99 because next year there will be so many that it corresponds to an entire municipality. I just have to say that, as a former municipal politician, I actually became genuinely preoccupied with this and worried about it. Because we can see that for so many years we have failed on integration and then it will be a task to succeed. I believe that the difference between Enhedslisten and SF and Dansk Folkeparti is that we have a real intention that integration should succeed. But I think it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205926	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503205928	I fully agree with the initiatives that were mentioned on how to achieve proper integration. After all, these are also tools that we need to use in relation to the social problems that are among the old-fashioned dancers or what to call them. But if you said in all countries that there are now, in a war situation, too many, where are they supposed to be? It is easy to talk about neighbourhoods, but those communities are about to sink. They have 20 and 30 per cent who are refugees and they have no idea what to do with them. The UN can't even find that money so they can survive. Isn't it a little exclusive to say that a country like ours can't accept 3 percent a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210013	Yes, but when I say that it is too many, it is of course with the same approach as when Enhedslisten says that there should be zero refugees. Because when people flee, something is fundamentally wrong, and we have to try to solve that. I would also just like to say that the SF is one of the few parties in this Chamber. I also believe that the Radicals and the Alternative support what will have a binding quota allocation, and that is what we want, because we want to do just that. We just believe that it should be solidarity among the European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210041	There is one more with a brief remark and it is from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210045	I agree with very, very many of the things that the SF rapporteur says here from the platform. That is why I am curious to hear where the SF is in relation to a proposal for adoption in this Chamber. I cannot find SF on any of the proposals for decisions that have been distributed, and I have to ask the SF's rapporteur in concrete terms whether SF also believes it is essential to ensure that non-western immigration is restricted and that is in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210117	Yes, in fact, I think so, because in the word limited I personally do not think we should help. Well, if you come to Denmark, you have the right to asylum, and then we're gonna help you. But right now it is just that there are a lot of people coming to Denmark who do not have the right to asylum. So in my optics, when I say limited, I really want to help those who need asylum and who need help, but there is also a large group of people who do not have the right to asylum. I have also heard Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen say in a wise interview at Clement that we must help the other way again. And that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210151	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210152	But refugees who are not entitled to asylum, or people who come, economic migrants, if they want to, and do not have the right to asylum in Denmark, do not get asylum in Denmark. So it is not an immigration that can be restricted. As I read the decisions that lie here, it is very obvious about non-western immigrants. I asked the Socialist rapporteur earlier in the Chamber how non-Western should be defined, and that has a very broad definition. That is all that is not western, that is, everything that is eastern or from countries that are not in the West. That also means India, Korea, China and others. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210236	No, I don't think we have the same definition. Having said that I would like to restrict non-western immigration, it is because I would like to send those people who do not have the right to asylum or make sure that they do not come, because there is so much pressure on us to help those who have the right to asylum. Then I would just like to say that if you go into the discussion, it is wrong that people have to flee. I believe that Radicals and the SF could quickly agree that it was good to limit the flow of refugees if it was because exceptional development aid was given. And that is one of the things I think is the interesting discussion here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210305	Then there was one more brief comment, so I would ask the rapporteur to stand still. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210311	After all, we fully agree with the objective that we want a world without refugees. We do not want any people to be driven on the run. But since we are in this situation and there are refugees, I am just curious to hear the rapporteur, if the rapporteur does not agree that talking about non-Western refugees is a muddle of the debate. After all, as the rapporteur himself said, it is about who has the right to asylum and who does not have the right to asylum. So the whole discussion about people coming from non-western countries is, after all, like a way to put up a sign in relation to some who are not Western, who are a different kind than those who are Western. So isn't that such a weird way to take the debate? That is why I would also like to hear from the rapporteur which of the proposals for adoption which the SF wants to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210409	When we are not on a proposal for adoption, it is actually because we have discussed back and forth. In fact, we think there were good elements in the Socialists' proposal for adoption, and indeed we think there were also good elements in the Enhedslisten, Radicals and Alternatives. We want to make it clear that we actually believe that this will have consequences for Denmark. That's also what I said to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl. In fact, we believe that this is going to be a challenge for the municipalities, even if we start with very good integration. We would like to send out a very clear signal on this. But we don't want to be a part of the tighter rhetoric that makes it sound like you can solve these problems with the flow of refugees by making a jewelry law or by raising family reunification rules, so you have to wait three years. We don't believe that. We want to limit the flow of refugees by making that people have nothing to escape, that they have schooling, that they have a job, that they have something to grow up into a country without war.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210458	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210500	Well, I kind of get that. But what I do not quite understand is what exactly is in the proposal for adoption from the Radicals and the Enhedslisten and the Alternative that the SF cannot support? Because we also recognise that there are some problems. They should just not be solved by talking ourselves up in a rhetoric about them and us, about non-western immigration versus Western immigration, or that anti-democratic forces are more problematic if they come from non-western countries than if they come from Western countries. So I cannot quite see where the rapporteur's position differs from that of the Enhedslisten, Alternative and Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210541	But it was so nice somewhere, because it seems that we are so far along the way in agreement. I really did not need to be on a proposal for adoption where there might be some funny discussion about what a single word means. I think right now we're in this hall really busy stuffing each other in boxes. Look at how much this non-Western immigration thing or limiting the influx has caused debate. But for me we have to limit the flow, for me we have to solve the flows that are coming towards Denmark, and then I think we just have different solutions to how we do it. We did not want to place ourselves on some of the proposals for adoption; we would rather say that we are today bringing our own solutions to what we can do. It could be breaking up with these parallel societies, solving social control, giving more help to the neighbourhoods, where we certainly agree with a number of different parties in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210626	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210629	It's just that I listened very carefully to what Mr. Jacob Mark responded earlier, and I still didn't think I was quite smart about what SF's position is. Sir. Jacob Mark says that you are not in favour of the jewelry law, that you are not in favour of restrictions on family reunification. When we talk about restricting non-western immigration to Denmark, can the SF vote on a proposal for adoption which says that a consistent policy on foreigners must continue to be pursued, and thus the policy on foreigners which has been pursued since the election of the Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210712	One of the reasons why we have said that we do not want to follow any of the proposals for adoption is precisely that we want to say that we do not really think that it is everything in the Socialists' motion for a resolution that is good. We do not necessarily think that everything that has been adopted, for example. The jewelry law, in particular the family reunification rules, is good. But if the discussion is about whether we are open and honest I do not know whether it is contrary to the Radicals; otherwise, I have heard the Radicals say it before dare to accept that we want to limit the influx to Denmark, then the answer is: Yes, we are willing to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210740	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210741	Yeah, well, I don't know anyone who wants there to be a lot of refugees in the world. I think everyone would want us to live in a world where people didn't have to escape to live. So we can't argue about that. But what we are talking about is: what policy should be pursued in Denmark? That is why it would be a good thing here, even though the debate has been going on for some time now. Jacob Mark, on behalf of the SF, could announce where you want to place your voice. One can easily vote against all the proposals for adoption, and one is not obliged to make one's own. But it would only be helpful for the debate here in Things to explain its point of view. So what do you vote? Are we voting against all the proposals for adoption, or what is going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210820	We shall not vote in favour of any of the proposals for adoption. And we simply do not do so because we believe that something in one proposal for adoption is not good enough and that something in the other proposal for adoption is not good enough. What we have tried today and I think that should normally be sought in politics is to say what is important to us. It is getting rid of parallel societies, and it is breaking with social control and providing more help in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210843	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have no one else who has wanted to make brief comments right now, and I shall therefore give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503210856	Thank you for the debate, although I must say that it has been a rather peculiar experience to be involved here today. One has to say in some way that there is a clear dividing line, or that at least there is some sort of dividing line in Danish politics at the moment, since especially when it comes to refugees and immigrants. In the past it was always the case that when one had heard the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, one thought that then one could not hear any more, then there was simply nothing more to say that could be far away from reality, for then the naivety was like closed, one might say. But when you hear the alternative today, it takes completely new heights. I have simply never heard anything like that, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist stands here on the platform and justifies why he sees resources in all people, including the imam who may call for violence against children, if they do not just address and pray their prayers when they are going to, so how to as imam still have a lot of resources, one must understand, also for Danish society, even if one is not in favour of equality or other fundamental principles of freedom, or how one as a member of Hizb ut-Tahrir, one also had to understand, was filled with resources and could be a great gain for Danish society. It simply takes new heights. Then we have had a SF which one could not really find out what meant, but certainly did not mean anything that anyone else thought at all, and it will then come for a day when we are going to vote for the decisions that lie. But I have to say that the alternative somehow takes the price, and how would I really like to live in the world of the alternative? It is a world in which one has to understand that bisons run freely, where there are meatless days when one makes arithmetic without success, and where one is in no way tied up in the real world. Maybe that's where the rainbow ends. I don't know, but you could believe it. Then there is the other side of the Parliamentary Chamber that goes in and takes responsibility and, as I also honestly say, there are major problems, including when it comes to immigration in Denmark, and that there are groups that can be very difficult to integrate into Denmark, and that numbers obviously mean something. I don't know a single person who doesn't want to help other people who are in need. I just don't. But I know a lot of people who want to help, so that you can also keep up with them, so that the fundamental principles of freedom on which we have built our country are also familiar the next day. So numbers matter! That is why it is also a question of us being honest about the policy to be pursued. We must also demand some of the people who come to Denmark. I myself feel that I think there are three things to be asked for. One is that you have to learn the language when you come here, the other is, of course, that you have to be self-supporting, and the third is that you have to respect the foundation of the principles of freedom that generations before us have laid. These are principles of freedom based on freedom of expression; you can say what you want, you can draw what you want. They are based on freedom of religion; you can believe in whatever god you want. And then there is equality in this country; girls and boys, women and men are equally worthless. It is a foundation that generations before us have laid, and on top of that one is so welcome to build one's own life, but one just cannot break the foundation, and I think we should be extremely precise about that and also more precise about that than we may have been for a long time. Then, on the other hand, when we demand that we take part in society and be self-supporting, learn the language, we must also give a fair chance of entering the labour market. That is why we have held two and three-way talks with the municipalities and also with the employers and with the trade union movement, because it is clear that things are connected. But I think it has been an exciting debate, although it has been a peculiarity of the kind, but sometimes it is also very good to draw up the lines in this Chamber, and I have to say that I think we have at least done that this evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211403	Thank you, Minister. Three comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211410	I just want to start by inviting the Minister into the reality of the alternative. It is actually nice and we actually solve some really important problems in our reality, which I actually think is the reality we all share. We have so different solutions to the challenges we face. I would like to make a small point, because it sounded as if the Minister had misunderstood what I said to him. Søren Espersen earlier. I do not see those statements as a resource, but yes, I actually see that all people contain resources, and if we work properly with people, we also get those resources. So it was just a small clarification in relation to the Minister's understanding of the reality of the alternative. And then I hope that the rainbow doesn't end up with us, but that it continues all over the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211501	Well, I would very much like to accept the invitation to come into the reality of the Alternative, also a little because I really want to understand them. I simply do not think that there is another party where there is a greater difference between my positions and that of a single party than the alternative. But I would like to come in and visit the Alternative and try to experience what it is as a reality. So I will look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211534	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211536	Well, I'll try to arrange that with the secretary of the minister so we can meet in our different realities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211543	Well, I can only say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211546	I now have four comments to make briefly, and the next one is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211555	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Minister and also the government for the fact that we could find common ground in a proposal for adoption, which is, of course, about a general reduction in non-western immigration and, above all, the part that does not contribute positively to society. From this point of view, I would like to ask, and I almost assume that the answer must be yes if the Minister does not think that it was too violent when there were approx. 80,000 people went to Denmark and got a residence permit. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this is a high figure, too high a figure, but I would like to hear whether the Minister and also the government think that it is, after all, an immigration which is too violent when we talk about a country as small as Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211633	For me, it's about us being an open country for those who can and will. Then there's a group that doesn't want to, and that's where I think the door should be closed. Therefore, it can also be difficult to put on a number if it is about e.g. work migration, i.e. people who actually come here to contribute, because they should be welcome in Denmark. If you can actually contribute in Denmark, you are welcome as a starting point. But it also means that you really have to take part in Danish society, and that is what you do if you are on the labour market and if you completely respect the foundation of freedoms on which the country is built. However, if the rapporteur asks whether I think that the number of asylum seekers was too high last year, the answer is clearly yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211717	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211719	Thank you. But now that the Left and the Danish People's Party, as well as other parties here today, have advocated restricting non-western immigration, I also hear that immigration is being problematized in other ways. Eighty thousand people who got a residence permit last year that it is too high a number if the two things are like going to play together. So I would like to know whether I could not get a clear answer from the Minister as to whether you think that 80,000 people who come to Denmark a year might be just above the size of a country of Denmark. Then there are some who come as refugees and some who come as family members, foreign workers, foreign students etc., but could I not get a statement from the minister who says that it is a very, very large number for a country like Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211807	But once again, I have to nuance my answer a little bit, and I do, of course, because it is the case that if you come here to work and to contribute, it is a good idea to come to Denmark, but if you come here as for example. If we can see that too few people enter the labour market, then we are not a resource for Danish society. I believe that if you come to Denmark, you have to contribute, then you have to become part of the Danish society. You have to acquire the language, and you have to support yourself, and then you have to respect the foundation of freedoms that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211845	The next brief remark is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503211851	Thank you. Now, of course, the Minister must be completely aware of how she defines the reality in which she finds herself. That's her right. But I would say that in the reality I find myself in, if you want to have democratic dialogue and that is actually one of the values that I value very much and that I would like to fight for, both here in Denmark and everywhere else, it is a good idea to try to listen to what your political opponents say rather than try to draw caricatured pictures of what is said. And that is what I think the Minister did a little in relation to the alternative. In fact, I think the alternative has contributed well to this debate. But what I would like to ask is that the Minister mentioned that gender equality was such a foundation that Danish society had built on for generations. I find that interesting. In my world, when we have a relatively democratic society, it is because there has been a trade union movement, there has been a cooperative movement, there have been other popular movements that have fought to achieve this equality. After all, it is not a battle that has yet been brought to an end. We don't have gender equality yet. How does the Minister define that this is something that Danish society has built on for generations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212005	Now it could be a very great advantage if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur would quote me That might be quite reasonable. For what I said was that it is a foundation that generations before us have laid, and in it I also believe that equality is a very, very important element. Actually, I think it is. Girls and boys, women and men are worth no less. But they are not in the mosques where we see how the Imams sit and advise women, for example. They cannot enter the labour market because they are not allowed to work with men. Then women and men are not worth much, and I actually think that we should join forces to do that. Surely we cannot be served in Danish society by the fact that we have imams and spokespersons from central mosques who speak contrary to the foundation of freedoms on which we have built the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212100	The author of another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212102	Now it is not just in mosques that such environments exist. They are found in many places in Danish society. And the way in which we have to stay in the minister's rhetoric has dealt with this kind of thing in Denmark has just been through the democratic dialogue. That has just been the way in which we have tried to solve such problems. That's what they've been doing for generations before us. There, too, anti-democratic tendencies have been met. Women's oppression has also been met, and social control has also been met. The way in which this has been resolved has been precisely through democratic dialogue and through integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212135	But that does not change the fact that I do not believe that the rapporteur can mention anywhere else in Denmark than in the mosques, where women are encouraged and advised to stay away from the labour market because there could also be men present. I do not know whether the rapporteur can mention anywhere else in Danish society where it is done. Well, I don't know it. In Skivegnen, where I come from, I can say that this is not something you are being called upon to do, either in church or in school or in the assembly hall. And that is precisely because we have a society that is built on, among other things. equal opportunities as one of several freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212210	Just for information, I can say that I still have three brief comments to make, and the first of the three is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212218	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on three of the concrete proposals put forward in today's debate. The first is from our own party, the Socialists. We also tried to ask the rapporteur of the Left about this. Is the government in favour of reintroducing the bonus to egu students so that they are equated with Igu students? The second is the position of the Liberal Alliance that people who receive a contract of employment in Denmark should be able to obtain a work and residence permit even if they come from a non-EU country. The third is the position of the Danish People's Party that they do not want to integrate the Syrian refugees who arrive in Denmark in these years. What is the position of the Minister and the Government on the three proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212304	First of all, on egu, I can say that it will be included in the legislative proposal. I can say to the Liberal Alliance's proposal that I do not agree, and that will also be seen if you look at the presentation made by the Left before the elections. Finally, on the integration of Syrian refugees, I can say that I believe that the refugees who have been granted asylum in Denmark and who have to be here have to be on the Danish labour market. They must contribute, and I also believe that they must learn Danish. That is why we have reached a tripartite agreement with employers and with workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212338	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212340	I am particularly grateful for the answer to the last two questions. To the first, which was about the Socialists' proposals, I can say that I am in favour of the fact that the bonus for initial vocational training is not, of course, reflected in the draft law that has been tabled, because it is a new draft law which deals with basic integration training. But what we are interested in finding out is whether the government can support the Socialist proposal to amend the basic vocational training law, or is it something that the Minister cannot answer because it is outside the minister's remit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212410	Now, in fact, it is not in my area but in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212418	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212422	Yes, the number really matters, says the Minister. So now that the Left has agreed to reduce non-western immigration, does this mean that the Minister intends to make further tightenings on immigration policy in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212440	In fact, I think we should leave the restrictions that we have just carried out together with the Danish People's Party and thank you for this work first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212451	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212453	I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212455	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212501	Now I was in such a good mood. I thought I was the most remote person in the world in the eyes of the Minister, but I can't compete for that anymore. On the other hand, I can say that I am very, very positive about the alternative slogan called Earth. It doesn't matter if we remind each other of it. So, Madam Minister, there is a war in Syria. There are people who get killed. At the moment, Denmark has decided to participate in the bombing of ISIL. It's okay for me, they're pigs, to put it bluntly. But you turn your back on the one who kills the most people: Assad. We are not doing anything to get a peace settlement going down there, and that means that with our efforts we are taking more people on the run. We in the richest countries are not helping the UN enough to provide for the neighbourhoods. 30-40 per cent Of what a fugitive should have, they get down there. In addition, societies are breaking down because there are more than 20-25 per cent. refugees in countries such as Jordan and Lebanon, which are certainly not strong societies. We need to look at an overall solution and not just go on with this symbolic policy in Denmark, where we are talking about limiting non-western refugees. We need to find real solutions and not just patch things up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212626	Yes, but sir. Christian Juhl, we are not in a situation where only refugees are involved. We are also in a migration crisis. There are plenty of migrants coming to Europe who come to Europe to seek happiness, but who will never get legal residence here because they are not personally persecuted. So it's no use just talking about the war in Syria, and if it was solved, everything was solved. Unfortunately, the world is not like that. Then I would just like to remind you once again that humanitarian aid is of course a priority, that aid in the neighbouring regions of Syria is a priority, and that is also absolutely necessary in the situation we are in. But it's just about a migration. It's about migrants coming to Europe. This isn't just about refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212718	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212720	Now we have been agreed all along that asylum seekers are being granted asylum and that migrants are not being granted a residence permit in Denmark. They're coming back. This is nothing new, as was the law in the 1980s and 1990s, etc. That is why I believe that the refugees from the war, the refugees from the vulnerable areas where there is crisis and disease and something like that, are coming. There are 50 million refugees in the world at the moment, so we have to intervene and resolve those conflicts, solve the problems of the wars that are in the world if we are to stop the flow of refugees. I think this is a very good way to solve it instead of just closing borders where they can then stand there and be killed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212804	Yes, it was fine if you could solve the problem of refugees, but you will still be enormously pressured by the migration that you are experiencing now. Well, they have to be sent back home, but the problem on the one hand is actually that sometimes it's not that easy to get these people back home. And if, on the other hand, we have too little foreign policy in Denmark, I can guarantee Mr. Christian Juhl for that we will also attract more migrants. Then it is not only refugees who are looking for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212838	I would like to make one more brief remark. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212843	It was really most because I was a little puzzled by the answers to the previous questions, especially to the questioner from the Danish People's Party. For we have to understand the proposal for adoption made by, among others, the Commission. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). But without that, even if this were to be adopted, it would lead to new initiatives by the government. That is how I understood the answer. And then with the nuance that it is of course something else, if it is labour that comes and helps Danish companies, as the Minister said. But it doesn't say anything about that. In fact, it says that we are going to work for a general reduction, and then there is something about that, in particular, that part that does not contribute positively. But that must mean that the reduction also affects the second part. That is why my question is really just: what is the government's policy in relation to the ability of companies to recruit employees from non-western countries? And what does this proposal for adoption mean if it is adopted? Are there new initiatives on the way in general that will prevent companies from attracting foreign labour? Or are they really just empty words where the authors of the motion for a resolution do not agree at all on what they mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503212957	I thank you very much for the radical interest in what the blue parties think in this area. But having said that, I think it is quite clear to everyone that for us in the Left, Denmark must be an open country for those who can and will, and that means that if you can and want to contribute, you are welcome. We lack qualified labour in Denmark and will do so in the future in particular. But it must also be said that too many people are coming to Denmark who are really not going to contribute, for example. the families brought together, and we can see how the refugees who have come to Denmark over the past many decades have not entered the labour market. After three years, it is 30% who participate in the labour market. That's all, far too little. And that's why we, among other things. have conducted tripartite negotiations precisely to increase that percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213052	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213057	The Minister now spoke of interest in what the parties think. I am interested in what all the parties think, but what I can see here is that this is a proposal from a minority, because another part of the parliamentary basis of the government, the Liberal Alliance, is not part of the proposal for adoption, precisely because, as I understand it, they have the same view as the government, namely that there is a need for companies to attract qualified foreigners, including from non-western countries. So here the minister's party has joined forces with parties that disagree with the text that has been tabled jointly. But the whole thing can really be of no consequence, because the government is in a situation where it probably ends up with nothing being adopted. And what one can probably say about the government's policy right now and the way it works in the Folketing is that there is not much that can happen, because it all stings in all directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213151	In other words, with a bit of a simple calculation, I can figure out that with regard to the proposal for adoption, of which the Radical Left is a part and which the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are included in, there must be a marked increase in the number of all three parties in order for it to ever be able to give a majority. The party, the Social Democrats, which you usually point to as Prime Minister's Party, or at least have pointed out in several rounds, I fully agree that there was just a period when Mrs Marianne Jelved thought she herself should be Prime Minister's. I can't at least look at this list. So unless the Radical Left makes significant progress in the next elections, I can see that this is also based on an absolute minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213238	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments right now, so I give the floor to the rapporteur for the questions. It's sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. And there's five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213252	Thank you. I just want to thank you for the debate, thank you to the parties and the Minister, and thank you, in particular, to Conservatives, the Left and the Socialists, for recognising the problems and challenges associated with extreme immigration, especially the non-western part of immigration. If we do not stop development, Denmark will change its character decisively, and we do not want that. The Danish People's Party wants to safeguard our cultural identity, and we believe that this requires more tightening of asylum and immigration policy. At this stage, it does not seem that a majority can be reached for a single vote, but I think it is good, after all, that there are four parties that have today expressed a desire to reduce non-western immigration. We intend to follow this up by the Danish People's Party. When we from the Danish People's Party in 2010 proposed precisely this, that is to say to reduce non-western immigration, no other party thought it was a good idea. Now I understand that there are at least three other parties that think that this is quite good. So I'd like to sign for that. It will be interesting to see what can come of it in the slightly longer term. However, I would like to thank all parties for the debate and the discussion. I think this has been a good discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213401	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213406	To call this a good discussion, I think maybe it's just giving it with the big arm swing. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion may at least be able to answer on behalf of some, but I do not understand the talk about pretending that non-western immigrants do not want to work. Couldn't we make an attempt, find a big municipality somewhere and then say that in this municipality there's a guarantee of work, and then see what happened? Well, I know it from home. I have colleagues with both one hair color and the other hair color who have worked below the daily allowance rate in our union because they wanted to work. I think that by far the majority of people who come to this country would like to be independent of public funds and would like to be allowed to do something if there were a job. But there's no work! That myth that there's a lot of work, but they just don't bother, I don't want to hear it anymore. I think it is so obscene to both Danes and to those who come to the country. Try to create the jobs, try to show that there is work for everyone and then see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213515	For the Danish People's Party, it is not just about work. It is also very much about which culture you take to the country and about the total number coming to the country. However, the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten will probably not agree for the time being at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213527	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213530	Now I have studied the history of my family, and there were some who went out of need to the Promised Land out west. There the Irish and Norwegians met, who were also completely fucked, if you can say so, you cannot here be completely poor, and who could do nothing but try to make a living in another country. They came in hundreds of thousands and made a life there. When they got a job when they got a home, they began to adapt to the culture. It was quite natural because it came by itself. It also does for all those who come to Denmark. It is something that goes without saying if they were given a chance to join the community we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213615	But no one is preventing people from adapting to Danish culture when they come to Denmark. They have that chance. There are some who choose not to seize that opportunity, and I deeply regret that, because that is a significant part of the reason why we are standing here and having this discussion, namely that there are a lot of people who have come to Denmark who have had the opportunity to adapt, had the opportunity to integrate into Danish society, also to adapt to Danish culture and Danish traditions, but did not want to do so. When they didn't want to do it, it creates a lot of integration problems, and it's compared to the large number that comes up that forms the basis for this discussion. I am glad that there is in fact a majority of the parties in the Danish Parliament who say that they have a desire to reduce non-western immigration to Denmark. It is a step in the right direction. There was no majority for a few years ago, but after all a majority in the Danish Parliament is saying that today, and I think that is a positive thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213658	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 10 May 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503213721	I have to interrupt this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 21.45, where the agenda will be the second reading of Bill No. L 185. The meeting on the third reading of the bill, like the rest of the agenda items from this meeting, will be held later today.
