ParlaMint-DK_20160331100037	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 164 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on access to justice and compensation in the field of health care. Bill No. L 165 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, Law on access to health care and the Law on the retention of drug addicts in treatment) Minister for Defence (Peter Christensen): Bill No. L 167 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on Emergency Responses, the Law on Protection of the Marine Environment and the Law on Fireworks and other pyrotechnic articles (Amendment of the composition of emergency committees, legal basis for operational cooperation in the field of emergency response across national borders, amendment of fire-sights, etc.)). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 111 (Proposal for a resolution on the appointment of members of the Refugee Board) and motion for a resolution No. B 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the limitation of non-western immigration). Mette Bock (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 112 (Proposal for a resolution on the reform of the economy of the people's church) and motion for a resolution No. B 113 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of blank tape). Josephine Fock (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the social and environmental sustainability of investments by Danish pension companies). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of the sale of products containing microplastics and the strategy for action against other microplastics). Rune Lund (EL), René Gade (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cancellation of planned savings in SKAT). Henning Hyllested (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on tax reporting obligations for companies providing taxi and/or freight services (commercial passenger transport and foreign freight services) via an application or other IT technology). Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reducing environmental and health impacts from pesticides). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening and knowledge of the monitoring of the Nature Conservation Act, the Planning Act, etc.). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100304	The item listed as No. 8 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Before voting on a derogation, I will allow a rapporteur for each party to speak for up to one minute in order to motivate their position on the issue of exemption. Sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100340	Before you routinely vote for the derogation, you just have to be aware of what kind of process you are setting in motion. There was a meeting of the Finance Committee yesterday at 9 a.m. 13.00. A deadline was set for questions. Those questions were submitted shortly afterwards. There was still no answer to questions here 15 minutes ago. Although they have been in the ministry all afternoon, all evening and all morning, no answer had been given to Question 21, Question 22, Question 23, Question 26, Question 27. I can see that one of those questions has been transferred from the Department of Defense at 8:00 a.m. 9.53. When the others come, I don't know. So this is the process we in the Danish Parliament are setting in motion when we do these kinds of emergency procedures where the ministries cannot or will not be able to decide that I shall not be able to live up to the rules that exist that we must have answers to questions that have been asked in good time before we have the treatment here in Parliament. It's making fun of ourselves, isn't it? That we take a position on a proposal where questions have been asked which we do not know the answers to. That is why we in the Enhedslisten will be voting in favour of not granting this derogation, and we will, of course, ask that, before we get to item 8 on the agenda, it be made clear whether all questions have been answered and when they have been received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100515	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100520	The vote shall be taken on consent. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The consent is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100554	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100619	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 44 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF), Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). And a vote can be taken. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V-44 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 45 by Søren Søndergaard (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100734	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 47 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Emrah Tuncer (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). And a vote can be taken. 72 (S, V, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 30 (DF and LA). Proposal for adoption No V 47 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 46 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and Christina Egelund (LA) and proposals for adoption No. V 48 by Søren Søndergaard (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331100854	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 43 by Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). And a vote can be taken. In favour 39 (V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 72 (S, DF, EL, ALT and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 43 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 41 of Henning Hyllested (EL), Kim Christiansen (DF) and Karsten Hønge (SF). In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 45 (V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 31 (S). Proposal for adoption No V 41 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 42 of Rasmus Prehn (S) and Nikolaj Amstrup (ALT). In favour 50 (S, EL, ALT and SF) voted against 60 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 42 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331101048	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Rune Lund wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331101121	This proposal is a rather special proposal in the sense that the very substance of the proposal is in fact very good, and it consists of a large number of technical amendments which, in the context of common customs rules throughout the European Union, must make customs clearance more flexible. That part of the proposal is very fine. What is the problem with this proposal is that it does not appear from the legislative proposal itself, but it has emerged during the examination that it will cost between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. to implement in administrative costs. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we would say that we find it highly questionable, especially in a situation where we are talking about SKAT and the serious crisis in which SKAT finds itself, that a legislative proposal of this nature does not make it clear that expenditure comes with between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. That is simply absurd. In fact, the draft law says that the draft law does not have any economic impact on the public sector. And the provisionally estimated costs, which are related to the implementation of these rules, should be clearly stated in the bill. We have asked a large number of questions on the part of the Enhedslisten and, in relation to Question 13, we have been informed that, with regard to the financing of the necessary changes, no decision has been taken on how the changes are to be financed, including any impact on the SKAT budget in other areas. I simply think it is unacceptable that the Minister of Taxation cannot make clear where the funding should come from in the field of taxation. When we have dealt with legislative proposals down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we sometimes have financial statements showing that there will be an additional income or a small income for the state of 5 million. kr. Now we have a bill that will cost between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. to implement and maybe even more, too much of this money needs to be used to implement IT systems. We find it really, really unacceptable that it is not apparent from the draft law, and we think it really, really, really unacceptable that there is no clarity as to where this funding should come from. Because if you look at how SKAT has been abused in the last 10 years by changing governments, you can see that part of the miser in the SKAT has a clear starting point in that SKAT has been saved to pieces. Thousands of jobs have been saved in SKAT, and billions of dollars have been saved in SKAT. Now we are in a situation where we want to implement legislation that will cost between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr., but who's gonna pay? Have you learned nothing from history? Have you learned nothing from the fact that SKAT has been spared? This is simply absurd. Then, at first reading, the tax minister said: 'Well, it is usually this way when we adopt this kind of EU regulation that funding will come later; that is something we are discussing in the Committee on Finance. But there's just no doubt when we're talking SKAT and we're looking at how the funding of this kind of IT system is usually financed, that caregiver means that there's usually funding from SKAT. And I will eat my old hat, if I had one, that SKAT will also pay for the implementation of this, which we from Enhedslisten find completely unacceptable. For our position is that we should cancel already planned savings in SKAT. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if we do not do anything here on the Things side in relation to the already planned savings in SKAT, the SKAT budget in 2019 will be over 500 million. kr. less than it is today. And in this situation, additional costs will be imposed on SKAT. Then there is a discussion in relation to the fact that this proposal is based on an EU regulation. And it is, of course, the case with EU regulations that they have a direct impact on Danish legislation. But I also think that we should take ourselves seriously as Parliament. Surely it cannot be right for us to reduce the Folketing to some kind of Mickey Mouse parliament, because there is legislation from the European Union in which we simply say: we have to adopt it, because the European Union has said so. It cannot be right that we do so without treating it properly and taking a position on funding. In this Parliament, the Danish Parliament, we have to decide on the rules to be implemented, and we have to decide on the funding that comes with, in any case, and we should definitely do so in this case, also because the amount is so large. So Enhedslisten absolutely cannot support this bill. We want SKAT restored. We want cancelled already planned savings in SKAT. We will have added much more resources to the SKAT so that the SKAT can be restored. For us, this bill is a sign that a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly, if this is adopted, unfortunately, has not learned from history in relation to SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331101609	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Bruus as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331101620	I'm gonna have to get the microphone down a little bit. When I take the floor for this, it is also, in fact, because it is a rather special situation in which we have also made reservations in the report. Now, sir. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten sort of reviewed the figures, so I shall not disturb the Danish Parliament with that. I just want to say that it is a rather special situation when we adopt something that could potentially cost between 1 and 1 1/2 billion. kr., without us really knowing. We have had a thorough examination of this, we have had a technical review, we have asked a number of questions in committee, and we have to say that we have reservations about the further implementation until we get the analysis that the Minister of Taxation has promised this summer, where we hopefully will have the details of the costs covered, but also the financing of what this is going to include. But we support the proposal, and I can also say that on behalf of both the Radical Left and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331101720	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331101726	Thank you. I would, of course, like to answer the questions that there are and which I think are quite relevant. Sir. Rune Lund said that it is EU legislation here, that it is an EU regulation, that it has direct legal effect, and that, of course, you can have the view of Enhedslisten, that you do not think it should have, but we are in the European Community, we are in the decision-making process that is in the European Union, and that is why, of course, we have to abide by what is being adopted there and what a majority of the Folketing has decided to do. That is how it is in a democracy, and that is how it should be in the Danish people's government, so I cannot identify with the kind of democratic civil disobedience that Mr. Rune Lund calls. I have to say that clearly. Then it is quite right that this is an EU Customs Code which costs some money. It is also an EU Customs Code, which has been many years in the process, and I have full respect for the reservation that Mr. Jeppe Bruus is expressing, but I must just remind you in all silence that I am not doing so often that there were some parties who sat in government before this government came to where this Customs Code was negotiated, was discussed in the Parliament's European Committee, and I would remind you that one also has a responsibility to ensure that it is implemented and a responsibility for finding the money to get it implemented, and we must try to do so together. So I think it is rather unusual that the reservations contained in the report have been taken into account. This isn't a new case. It's a case I've taken over as tax minister. It was a matter that was dealt with in the Parliament's Committee on Europe in 2012 when there was another government and where work should have been started to find out what this cost and get that bill down. I'm happy to do it, and I'm happy to help solve this problem. I ask in all silence that the parties of the Folketing broadly support that wish, and I think it is appropriate also to remind you that this is not a problem that has arisen under this government. With regard to the Customs Code as such, I would also like to remind you that it is basically something that is being demanded by Danish industry. It is money that we need to find and that needs to be invested in ensuring better rules for the settlement of VAT. To put it a little squarely, it is a matter of moving away from customs work with punch paper at EU level, but switching to some kind of IT support for the customs system, so that we get a situation where, if you bring a container into Hamburg, Madrid or Aarhus, it is the same easy and simple customs clearance. It is something that will benefit Danish business, it is something that will benefit the internal market, it is something that will benefit the European economy and it will create growth and employment overall when it hopefully works in Denmark as well as in the rest of Europe. So it costs some money, but that is some money, we invest in developing Danish and European business, and that is basically a good thing. Now we must ensure that it is properly implemented, put in place the IT systems that are needed, and that is where I call for us to work together to find solutions to this. I would like to take the lead in this as a tax minister, and I am quite convinced that this is something that will, of course, require us to find additional funds if we are to pay the bill that it costs to implement the EU Customs Code. I have to warn against those who believe that you can just not do this, that the Folketing can not vote in favour of the bill. It is EU legislation and it has direct legal effect, which is why I hope that there will be a broad majority of parties in the Folketing who will be accountable to the fundamental principle that when the EU has decided something, we will of course also have to implement it in Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102110	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it's Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102113	Now I heard the Minister of Taxation quietly state that there was respect for that reservation, but also that perhaps you should take that responsibility and help finance it here. We are happy to do so, but it requires everything else to be equal, that we know what we have to finance. It's 1⁄2 billion. kr., it's 1 billion. kr., it's 11⁄2 billion. kr.? When's that money gonna fall? Where's that money coming from? Well, these are all the questions we do not know about today because we are awaiting the analysis that is coming from the Treasury. That is why I think it is perhaps quite responsible to say that we support the process we are now setting in motion. But, of course, we have to make reservations about the fact that we do not know the extent of what we are going to be involved in funding. That is why this is perhaps just an answer to the tax minister's criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102204	Thank you. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102205	Thank you. It was kind of because I didn't think I heard Mr. Jeppe Bruus clearly say that the Social Democratic Party is ready to find a solution to the challenge we have here, the economic as well as the implementational. And when sir... Jeppe Bruus gives that commitment in his question, I am fully satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102227	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102229	We wouldn't vote in favour if we weren't ready to help implement this. It almost goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102237	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102238	Well, I don't think I can add much more than that, of course, I'm happy about that. It is a common task to have an EU Customs Code. It is a common task to have it implemented, and it is also a common task to get that bill down as far as possible. It is a bill that has become considerably higher because the possibility of delegated acts has been used in the European Union, which means that the system that was thought to cost a few hundred million kroner when the European Parliament's Committee of Parliament agreed in 2012 will now end up with a considerably larger amount. Together with like-minded countries in the European Union, we must do what we can to get that bill down, and we must, moreover, implement the EU legislation, which is therefore legally in force in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102317	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102319	In the light of the debate we have had today and also in the light of the previous debate on the between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr., perhaps more, as this is going to cost, I would like to ask whether the tax minister then today from the Parliament's platform will guarantee that it will not be SKAT that will pay neither part of or the whole bill for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102343	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102345	My months so far in the Ministry of Taxation have made me cautious in issuing guarantees, and you have to be, because there are a large number of areas in the SKAT that are heavily challenged for a variety of reasons, so I cannot guarantee that. But I can give that assurance to Mr. Rune Lund, that of course, as tax minister, I will work for the government and also gather a majority in the Folketing to ensure that the EU Customs Code can be implemented as smoothly, efficiently and cheaply as possible, and of course there is a need to find some funding to carry out that task. But that is something we start with when we know exactly what the bill is, and unfortunately we do not know that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102431	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102432	I welcome that commitment, but it is still not very reassuring, especially in a situation where we know that SKAT will be subject to a lot of savings if the Folketing decides otherwise here; in a situation where SKAT is already in a deep, deep crisis due to the savings that have already saved SKAT in pieces. However, I would like to ask another question: how does the Minister of Taxation feel about putting forward a bill which costs between 1 and 1.5 billion? kr., without specifying funding? Isn't that a rather strange way of presenting a bill in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102508	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102509	No, actually, it's not. The EU Customs Code and the implementation of it as such cost this 1 to 1.5 billion. kr., you estimate. The draft law is a small part of it, and the draft law in isolation has no economic consequences, and therefore it is reflected in the draft law's observations. It is quite true that the draft law is then part of an EU Customs Code, which runs into a big bill. That's the difference. Therefore, as such, it is not so unusual. I hope, then, that we will be able to clarify as soon as possible what the bill is and find out how to pick it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102545	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102554	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour 73 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 13 (EL and SF), abstained 22 (DF). The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102630	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102649	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The proposal has been adopted unanimously by 112 votes. The proposal was adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102718	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331102744	Thank you, President. The proposal on which we will soon be voting, which has been put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, is basically about democracy. It is about whether the Danes should be heard, when a government sells out of some of the crown jewels, one could call it, in our community, in this case our common, community-owned energy company DONG. The proposal, if adopted, will mean that the Danes will have to be asked in a referendum before the planned listing of DONG Energy can be implemented. Since we first dealt with the question, it has become more topical in the sense that the listing of DONG has now been initiated. Indeed, the parties of the Danish Parliament will probably have to adopt the act later today in the Finance Committee which formally approves DONG's admission to the Stock Exchange, thereby giving more of its ownership to new private investors. So if the proposal that we have put forward in the Enhedslisten and the Alternative is rejected today, the final decision on the listing of DONG will be trumped at a meeting of the Finance Committee, without the public being consulted, in a matter which, I believe, must have been slept under in order to be in doubt is a matter which has so much absorbed the Danes and where there has been a very high degree of criticism of the secrecy and lack of democratic debate that has marked the whole process. Why is this so important that people should be asked in a referendum? For us, it is a very fundamental issue when we as a society hand over and sell out of our common, community-owned companies to private individuals. It's pretty much irreversible. Once sold out, we do not get these companies back into the hands of the people, and every time we transfer ownership of our joint-owned companies to private individuals, we lose democratic leeway. Then the people lose the opportunity to use those companies as tools to take social considerations. This is particularly problematic when it comes to an energy company such as DONG, because that is where we have a huge interest in us being able to use it as a society, as a population, to promote, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. Because when you go in and stock exchange notes a company, it has to function on the basis that it operates with the short-term economic aim that there has to be an annual return to the shareholders you invite in. This means, of course, that to the extent that it pays to invest in green conversion, you do so. Fortunately, it is worthwhile right now, and that is why DONG has also developed in a positive direction in relation to how they invest. But the moment it suddenly changes and again fossil fuels become profitable, of course DONG's investment portfolio will also change again. We do not serve that as a society, because when it comes to climate and energy policy, we do not need to be guided by short-term economic considerations. There we need to be able to take long-term social considerations. There are other things at stake, too, because just when it comes to the privatisation of our energy sector, we can see that there are very mixed experiences when we look out in the world. There is experience from other countries where privatisation has been carried out, for example. its power plants, which are part of this. That's one of them. Our power plants here close to Borgen, which will become even more private ownership. In other countries there is experience of underinvestment in e.g. the power stations, which have affected security of supply in a number of European countries. Then there is the question of timing. Is this even the right time to post DONG, even if you think it should happen? There are a number of experts who have no doubt about that. Can it end with the state doing a really bad business when you want to do this business that we are basically opposed to, and that you get a far too low price for the Danes who own DONG Energy? You can agree or disagree with all of this. But this proposal is really just about whether the people should be asked before theirs is not Mr. DONG. Claus Hjort Frederiksen's energy company, DONG is not the government's energy company, nor was DONG Mr. Bjarne Corydon's energy company. DONG is the energy company of all of us, and that is why it is quite natural that, when companies like this are privatised, we should all be consulted. That is what we are voting on in a moment: should the privatisation of DONG continue over the population, just as we saw when it was sold out to Goldman Sachs? And, by the way, we still need to shed some light on what was going on here. Should another undemocratic chapter be written later today in the history of the sale of our joint energy company? If this proposal from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are voted down, the Danes will be deprived of the opportunity of influence. The stock exchange quote of DONG will then be trumped at a financial committee meeting later today over the heads of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103351	Thank you. I would just like to say that the Minister for Finance is referred to as the Minister for Finance. Then there are two brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103400	After all, we are voting against this resolution because we do not believe it is appropriate for a referendum. But what brings me to ask a question to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, sir. Pelle Dragsted's words that it is irreversible when the state sells state business, that is, it cannot be changed. It can quite easily be done, and it is especially easy to buy stock on a stock exchange if you want to change it. Therefore, I would recommend Enhedslisten that in the next parliamentary elections they go to elections on the theme that also lies in Enhedslisten's programme of principles, but which is not talked about so loudly every day, namely that the state must own the companies in Denmark • that the state must go out and buy companies in Denmark with the aim that we should have more of a socialist society. I would recommend the Enhedslisten to go to the polls on that, also because Mr. Pelle Dragsted's analysis of it is that it will lead to Enhedslisten storming up at the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103453	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103454	It is, of course, true that hypothetically it is possible to return privatised property to the population. It can be. It just didn't happen. What we have seen is a move in one direction, and unfortunately it is in the direction advocated by the rapporteur's party, namely that the more of it - at least a lot of what is in the hands of the state that can be turned into private interests, the better. That is why I also believe that if we look at the TDC and a number of the very problematic privatisations that have been carried out, we can just say that it is difficult, if not impossible, to reverse that process again. To the rapporteur's words about what Enhedslisten is going to go for election on the "I'm always happy to get good tips and suggestions from political friends and opponents" I would say: we are not going to go for the fact that we believe that certain sectors of society are best placed in the state. This applies to our infrastructure, it applies to our energy companies, and it applies to many of those things, because they are basically often natural monopolies, but also because they are things that pose risks to our society as such. Then the rapporteur insinuates that, moreover, we believe in the Enhedslisten that everything should be owned by the state. I can deny that. We believe that the state is the second worst employer after the private employers. We saw that with the reform of primary school. It was not a state that behaved very well as an employer. We are very strong supporters of having more collectively owned companies in Denmark in the same way as those we already know. We have a very wide range of forms of ownership in Denmark: We have the largest grocery company owned by customers; we have a mortgage that has historically been owned by associations, we have cooperatives, etc. etc. So we think it's really positive to look at different types of ownership. We think this is very good for an economy and something that has made Denmark strong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103711	Here we go again, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103716	Sir. Pelle Dragsted regrets that the development has only taken place in one direction: the sale of state enterprises and not the re-purchase of state enterprises. It is because there was a broad, broad majority in the Folketing who wanted it in a quite democratic way. That's why I'm going to say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, that instead of hiding Enhedslisten's program of principle at the very bottom of the desk drawer, one should choose that the state must own more business companies. However, go to elections for socialism to be introduced in Denmark, instead of this mild social democracy which Enhedslisten has made his mark in all election campaigns. Then it may be that there will be more mandates if Mr. Pelle Dragsted's analysis is correct, which wants to buy private businesses and make them state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103806	That was one of the worst accusations I have ever heard in this Chamber: I am not just a Social Democrat; I am a mild Social Democrat. We're not gonna go tucking in our principle program. We are a socialist party, and we are very proud of that. We believe, and this is what we think we can look out the windows to see, that the capitalism and neoliberal offensive that we have experienced in recent years, led by the rapporteur's party, has thrown the world into deep problems of enormous inequality and a climate disaster that threatens the survival of our planet. So yes, we are going to the polls on a socialist development in Denmark. I can guarantee this to the rapporteur and it will not be in the mild social democratic form.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103853	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103856	I just want to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur why the Enhedslisten is so dissatisfied with the representative democracy that we have in this country. We have a Parliament; we are elected by the Danish people to represent the Danes on various issues • also difficult questions as this is. Hopefully, there will be a majority later in the day and in other contexts that would like to see DONG's stock exchange being replaced, which also allows for a smaller divestment, but where we still have the majority in the hands of the state. Why is Enhedslisten's dissatisfaction with the fact that the Danish population has put together a Parliament where there is a broad majority who wants this resolution, even though Enhedslisten is against the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103940	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331103941	I understand the question, and it is a very fundamental question, when to hold referendums and when to decide. I also think that referendums should definitely be part of the exception. I think we could have more than we have today, but of course we can make many decisions as a Parliament. When I think that exactly the privatisations of large joint-owned companies are one of the places we should be asking the people, that is for the reasons I have mentioned: I do not think it is good that a random parliamentary assembly can make these irreversible decisions on behalf of the people, because it is a common ownership that we have. I am quite open to this, of course, is a discussion that can be taken: when are referendums the right thing to do? We therefore believe, in the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, that more referenda could generally be used, and we believe that this is an example of where they could be used. And when you look at the history and opinion polls that were made in connection with the sale to Goldman Sachs, there is something that suggests that there is a difference between what the majority in this Parliament thinks and what the Danes think about this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104047	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104049	I feel a little provoked by the fact that one is told that it is a random composite parliament. Well, after all, it is the Danish people who have put together the Danish Parliament, even after all this discussion, which I agree with Enhedslisten that there has been, about Goldman Sachs and DONG, and what else has been. So I don't want to acknowledge that it's a random composite parliament. It is a Parliament that the Danes have composed and where there is a broad majority that wants us to make an introduction to DONG. I think the Enhedslisten should recognise that as well. At least I understand that Enhedslisten is against that decision, fair enough. It will turn out later in the day. However, one has to acknowledge that it is the Danes who put together the Folketing, and it is the Folketing who makes this kind of decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104128	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104130	But the same could be said when we have to vote on the reservation of law and many other things. There we have such special provisions in the constitution which ensure that there should be a vote, and otherwise we would probably not have had it either, if it had been up to Mr Beazley. Jacob Jensen. We believe that holding referendums is a contribution to democracy. Of course, it must be done with reservations that we should not send everything to a referendum. The people have put together a Parliament, that is right, and perhaps it was wrong to talk about a randomly composed Parliament. What I'm just saying is that the decision you make doesn't end with this assembly. It goes so far into the future that I think there is reason to ask the people in this case. In fact, there were also parties that are part of the DONG group and now I am not going to mention the names that went to the polls to say that no more should be sold out of DONG and that, after the elections, unfortunately, has taken the opposite view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104225	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That does not seem to be the case, and then we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104236	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104316	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104346	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104521	The debate is open, and that is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331104540	Thank you. Motion for a resolution B 82 proposes that companies which, through the company's platform, help a taxable person to rent out all or part of his accommodation should be subject to reporting obligations, so that SKAT automatically receives reports on taxable persons who have had rental income through the company's platform. First a little over: Deleøkonomi is in rapid development both internationally and nationally, i.e. in Denmark. As Minister of Taxation, I see these new corporate concepts as an expression of innovation, something that helps to make us richer as a society and give all Danes more opportunities and more freedom. If you can rent your car economically, it will be cheaper to own a car, and if you can rent your apartment, it will be cheaper to have an apartment, which means that it offers more opportunities for the individual. It may also make it possible for more people to own both car and housing. Individuals are able to trade, rent, borrow and share products and services with each other via the Internet and smartphones via digital platforms. The trend towards more and more digital business models has, I think, come to stay. Share economy as a business concept also challenges the way that has traditionally been run in Denmark, but at the same time the share economy offers good opportunities for growth, employment and ultimately also tax crowns for the Treasury. Having said that, it should be stressed at the same time that it is important that the players in the shared economy comply with the tax rules that apply and that there is no unequal competition conditions. So there is a clear need, at least from the Treasury and from me, to follow developments in this area. I would also like to say that, as a starting point, I do not want to create a large control regime, because I do not think this is the most effective way to solve this or the problems of the SKAT in general. On the other hand, I have a desire to be in dialogue with the industry, which can contribute to the existence of good, constructive and, above all, effective solutions in this area. SKAT will start an analysis project during spring 2016 to provide SKAT with a detailed knowledge of the shared economy, including the scope and possible obligation to pay tax on the activities. SKAT wants to examine in the analysis project the business models of the shared economy, the fiscal challenges of the concepts, and how SKAT can contribute to the clarity and familiarity of the tax conditions in the area. There is also a need to look at that, as Minister of Taxation, I wanted to see how SKAT can exercise control in this area and whether there should be a need to change the legislation. In addition, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to examine the growth potential of the shared economy. The hotel industry, the transport industry, etc., can benefit from shared economic concepts. When the results of SKAT's analysis projects and the results of the analysis carried out by the inter-ministerial working group are available, it would be natural to re-evaluate both the possibilities and the need for a change in the rules in relation to the shared economic services. In this context, I would like to give a commitment today to the Folketing that I would, of course, like to discuss the outcome of these analyses with the parties of the Folketing, and that is where I think we should find a way to deal with the challenges that may also be involved in taxation, but on an enlightened basis. There is no doubt, therefore, that the sharing economy can present challenges, including for the tax system, but that a reporting obligation, which the motion for a resolution proposes, is the solution, I must be honest in saying that I can be in doubt. And now I'm gonna go over why. Companies that provide shared economic services via a website abroad will often not be taxable in Denmark. They do not want a permanent establishment in Denmark and therefore a reporting obligation will not be applicable to these companies. That is to say, we can adopt what is in the motion for a resolution to impose the reporting obligation, but if the company only has a website where they provide the rental of apartments, cars, garden tools or other, and the website and the company behind the website are based in the United States or Australia or on the Cayman Islands, then the Danish tax authorities are powerless to enforce the reporting obligation in question. And it challenges an obligation to report that it may be difficult, perhaps even impossible, to enforce it. Indeed, in order to be subject to any reporting obligation, it is a legal requirement that natural or legal persons resident in the country or operating the business from a permanent establishment in the country are involved. And if they do what is being proposed in the motion for a resolution, one can also imagine that the semi-economic companies which have permanent establishments in Denmark and have employees will immediately move the company to another country, because it typically will not be the physical location of an employee or where you legally belong in Denmark, which is crucial to whether or not you are in Denmark. can operate rental via Airbnb or other. That, as I said, is technological, that is to say. The website, so I guess you'll also open up the possibility that there might actually be speculation in this area... another argument that you should be careful about it. If the transfer takes place through a company abroad, the number of reporting obligations may be introduced without the company concerned being covered. Something else is that the person who, for example, rents out its assets, is taxable from the rental income. At the same time, however, the rental costs are deducted. In relation to the rental of all or part of the own dwelling, schematic rules are laid down for the calculation of the deduction from the rental income which the landlord can make use of. For example, when renting own accommodation for part of the year, there may be: a base allowance of DKK 24,000 is used. per year of rental income. Based on the assumption that most rent their accommodation only for a few weeks a year, it has been considered by the Ministry of Taxation that the rental income was obtained through services which provide rental services for housing such as: Airbnb, relatively rarely will trigger taxation when considering the special rules in this area. There are other shared-economy services, for example. if you rent your car out through the service called GoMore, where there is no bottom-up deduction and you are taxable of the entire income, and there, of course, as a taxpayer, you have an obligation to report the amount of your tax. To conclude, I would like to reiterate that the shared economy is an area which both I and the government will be looking into in the near future. We want to embrace and develop the shared economic idea, because it offers freedom and economic opportunities for the individual and it develops new markets which, in the short term but especially in the long term, can lead to the state and society receiving tax revenue that we do not have today, but that also presupposes that we do not use the tax rules to kill the divided economy. And you can if you want. The government doesn't want that. Having said that, however, we must, of course, answer taxes, both as a citizen who uses the tools of the economy and the business models, and the companies that are behind it. As mentioned, SKAT will start an analysis work on shared economy, and an inter-ministerial working group will have to look into the matter. The result of this work, including the continued dialogue with the industry, can help to identify possible opportunities and needs for new initiatives in the field, which can overall help to ensure that the industry can continue to grow in Denmark, while hopefully at the same time taxes and charges will be calculated correctly. Against this background, I will give a commitment to a discussion with the parties of the Folketing, including the proposers, when we have a professional basis on which to do so, and that also means that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105417	Thank you. It's first, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105425	In the Enhedslisten, we are very enthusiastic about the shared economy, because it precisely allows us to have a high standard of living with a lower consumption of resources than we have today. In this way, the shared economy also contributes to the green transformation of the economy, of which we are, of course, very much in favour. What we also just think is important is that the shared economy should not become a black economy, but a white economy. We are well aware that this proposal far from solves all problems. It is not the solution one, but I would like to ask a question to the tax minister, which is based on the fact that, today, if you rent your leisure home via a rental agency, the rental agency is legally obliged to report profits to SKAT on behalf of the landlord. I would like to know whether the tax minister has any plans to change the legislation we have today in this area or whether the tax minister is backing the legislation as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105534	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105539	Well, the law we have in the summer cottage area is that you have a deduction I think it's 10,000 kr. And it is, for example. through Airbnb, it will also be private, as I understand it. In return, if you rent through an agency that reports, you have a higher deduction, I think it's $20,000, that is, twice as much as a deduction. I think that is actually a good and wise way of doing that, because it creates an incentive to report. That is also why I believe that the most effective way to go is to make a voluntary agreement between the tax authorities and some of these sub-economy companies and to consider whether that principle is something that we could transfer in other areas of the shared economy. Because we are challenged by the fact that the tools we usually have in the toolbox are not good when we cannot enforce the law, because what is the platform is a website that is not based in Denmark. Then we can create a fiscal incentive to cooperate with the Danish tax authorities to the benefit of the company, for the citizen who uses the share economy and makes rentals, and ultimately also for the Treasury. That is why I think it is a road that should be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105647	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105651	Thank you for that statement, at least. After all, this proposal is really about streamlining the legislation so that the legislation that exists in the cottage sector will apply to other homes. If the Minister enters Airbnb's website and enters e.g. Højby in Ellinge Lyng in Odsherred, the Minister will be able to see that there are a large number of summer houses which can also be rented via Airbnb. So this proposal is actually just about saying that the rules that apply to cottages must be transferred to ordinary homes. Whether or not there should be some form of deduction, we are very willing to discuss in connection with the discussion of this proposal. I would like to make a statement on that. But this proposal, which is not a big one, is a small one, but an important one, because we are starting the debate on the share economy, I think, because it is a streamlining that we can adopt as it stands. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105746	Well, there's just that problem and it's gonna be mr. Rune Lund has to relate to Airbnb, if they do not have a permanent establishment in Denmark or choose to move the employees they may have and the registration they may have to another country, then we cannot enforce the law. And then we will find ourselves in a situation where the only sanctioning tool I can come up with is that the tax administration should shut down certain websites and apps. And it's not a road I think is viable to the IRS that you should go in and close and block websites. But it's the only tool I can imagine we have. That is why we need to think alternatively in relation to the traditional legislative tools, and therefore there is an immediate problem in just voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. However, I fully share the reason why the Enhedslisten has tabled the motion for a resolution, namely the wish that we should respond to the tax we have to pay. And we'll make sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105839	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105842	Thank you. First of all, praise to the Minister for Tax, because this work has been initiated in order to analyse the area and find solutions in the longer term, and also because there is a dialogue with the various parties. And although I am aware that this is not a new issue that has just appeared on the table of the Minister of Taxation, but that it has also been there in the past, we nevertheless have an interest in knowing when the work is finished and in not having to go perhaps two or three years before finding a solution. So I really just want to hear the Secretary of State quite quietly about when you expect this to be done. I would also like to express my appreciation of the fact that the parties will subsequently be invited to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105920	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331105921	Thank you. It is a work that has been set in motion here in 2016 and it must be completed this year. But I think it's relevant, given that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær raises the question that I ask out in the SKAT how fast they can do it. And then it might be possible that we could have this debate in the autumn. I know that the Ministry of Business and Growth's study or report whether you want to be ready before the summer break. I think SKAT is going to take a little longer, because some of the tax legislation in this area may prove to be a little complicated, even if we have to find alternative legislative solutions. We could see if this could not be done in the autumn, but I will have a talk with the SKAT about that, and then I can come back as part of the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110011	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110013	Thank you for that commitment, at least I think that sounds like a good way to deal with it. I would like to raise another issue. It's about this permanent establishment thing. This proposal seems sympathetic, but it does not want to hit those who really want to, i.e. Airbnb, because they do not have a permanent establishment in Denmark. But could that be something you were looking at forward-looking in this analysis? Because there is the challenge that one could quite simply imagine a situation where all apps and websites now belonged at Cayman Islands to avoid paying taxes and having Danish tax liability. So you have to look at it with a permanent establishment as well. I understand that it's quite complicated and can affect a lot of company structures, but is that something you're also looking at in this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110056	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110058	In general, our Danish tax system is challenged by globalisation and technological developments, and I believe that as a legislator we need to take due care and at an early stage consider whether we need to change some basic things. A permanent establishment is a fundamental element of the Danish tax system and it is a principle that is being challenged. That is why I would like to make that commitment not here today, but on another occasion to look at that issue. This is something that will continue to be under pressure, and that is why at some point there will be a need for us to perhaps look at whether those rules need to be changed. But I cannot quite give that assurance today to Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110137	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110140	Back in January, when the tax minister came up with his proposal on how to enter into dialogue, we were very, very positive in the alternative, and we are still gone. I think it is a very right and very progressive way of entering the shared economy, namely to find out what can be done, so we make sure we don't put down, I don't remember whether it was you or us who said old, bad legislation down on the new reality. I think that is essential. On the other hand, I also think that the tax minister might be able to answer whether the companies operating in the same areas as this part-economy, in the context of the competitive situation we will then have in Denmark, could not expect us to say yes to such a proposal here. The challenge that will then be to recover the tax from the companies in question with their addresses in other countries must then be addressed. Then we will have to take some special considerations afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110233	Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110237	I think you have to see things in a whole. I have had a meeting with Airbnb and also the services of other shared economies to send the clear signal to them that there is a need for them to cooperate with the Danish tax authorities and have a good dialogue. I would also like to send that signal from the Parliament's platform here today, to feed Airbnb, Uber and others to enter into a dialogue and to enter into voluntary agreements with the tax administration. If you do not do so, you will be able to get into what is in this resolution and what can ultimately be a long legal battle. There I have to say in all silence that we are not so strong as a tax administration because we cannot impose reporting obligations on companies which do not have a permanent establishment or are resident and taxable in Denmark. I don't know if that was an answer to Mr. Kim. René Gade's question, but that is what I can say at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110333	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110337	Yeah, it was fine. In addition to that, I would like to know if we could get closer to the timetable that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also referred to and whether it could perhaps be included as an amendment here, so that this resolution from the Enhedslisten became edible and so that this amendment was accepted because we agree on the intention. It could then be that there was to be a longer phase-in time, and that it was also written in that we have to take a position on this challenge with the addresses that lie elsewhere. I just think that the intention seems to be so clearly right for all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110406	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110409	Parliament has some options, depending on what the proposers want. You can choose to write a report, and that is such political signals to the government, which will not be legally binding, but which I, as the tax minister, will of course follow. This is my clear starting point in respect for the Folketing. It could be a good, soft way to land this. What I appeal to in silence is that we should have a political debate when we have an enlightened basis, and not only look at the reporting obligation, but also at some of the other aspects of the divide economy, so that we can achieve what I sense most parties want, namely to see the split economy flourish, but that SKAT also gets its share into the treasury to finance our welfare society and the many good things that it contains.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110453	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110457	I think, in fact, that the desire for a broader review is fine. But you just have to be careful that you do not look up the bread so big that you do not solve the problems that lie ahead. And the taxation problem is a problem. Now we have talked about Uber, and I do not regard that as a shared economy at all, it should be said, but there is a very topical, urgent problem where we have some professional groups who are facing completely unfair competition. And it is a little the same that happens here when we hear Mr. Rune Lund tells about Airbnb, who also provides vacation rental services, that they have no reporting obligations. And then we have traditional Danish summerhouse intermediaries who have that burden, you can say that they have reporting obligations. That is why I should like to ask the Minister of Taxation a question. The Minister of Taxation said that if this was implemented as a law, it could mean that companies would move abroad, but what has been the experience with the legislation that applies to the summer house area? Is it the case that the summer house service providers covered by this and, as far as I know, some of them are actually international companies, for example Novasol, I mean without having much knowledge of it has moved abroad to avoid this reporting obligation? And if that has not been the case, why should it happen in the other case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110608	The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110611	That is an excellent question. There's just a difference between the two ways of running rental agencies. As I understand a lot of Danish rental agencies, Novasol, which may be foreign, and I don't know that, but I have to believe Mr. Pelle Dragsted's statement is that it is rental agencies that also provide physical things such as cleaning and a number of other things. It's kind of hard to move abroad. But Airbnb is really just a website where you provide a service, and then arranges to rent and rent things individually within some framework. I believe that there are many countries in which Airbnb operates, where they do not have a single employee and where they do not pay a single penny in corporation tax, and that is a problem. But that is also, what to say, an expression of technological development, and that is why I appeal to us to think new and innovatively in our tax system too, in order to address this challenge instead of pulling out old well-known tools, which may prove ineffective. For shared economy and technology as a driver of shared economy and our society as such is something we are going to see much more about. And that is why we might as well start the tax policy debate on how to set up the tax system, so that the state and the SKAT get their share of the income that rightfully belongs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110729	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110732	Then I have two brief questions. One goes on what the tax minister says about there having been a discussion with Airbnb: what has Airbnb indicated to the tax minister in this regard? I think that might be interesting to know. The second question is 'and now perhaps I am asking stupidly because I am not a tax rapporteur: do you want to do something about, for example, a tax rapporteur? double taxation agreements and other such agreements could deal with the problem here, i.e. that this legislation, if we introduce it, will also apply to services abroad which are responsible for the provision of housing in Denmark? Is there an opportunity to deal with it internationally so that they become taxable in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110812	To conclude, I must be honest and say that, although I am a tax minister, I cannot answer that question. But I'd like to invite Mr. Pelle Dragsted to put it in writing, and then we have to come up with an answer. We cannot rule out the possibility of this being done. But I also think it was Pelle Dragsted who said that you shouldn't throw too big a bread. And I do not know when to enter and change double taxation agreements, which are typically something that takes years to negotiate whether this is the most effective way to solve the problem. In relation to the second question about my talks with Airbnb, I would like to say that it was a talk with an interest organization, and out of respect for the talk and space in which it has taken place, I will not refer it here. But I can just say that I sent the clear signal to Airbnb that I want as good cooperation with the tax authorities as possible. I also received the commitment that they have also made to the public that they want to pay taxes. It is about finding the good and easy way to do it for the tax administration, for Airbnb and for the people who rent it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110904	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. It's sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy, first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331110914	Thank you. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. In fact, we share the intention fully with it. The Enhedslisten himself writes in the explanatory statement to the motion for a resolution, and the Minister for Taxation has also mentioned that there are quite positive aspects to the developments that are taking place. And I also agree with some of the questions raised by Enhedslisten, among others. about the different types of companies that are on the market, where you look at whether it is, for example. are some who use new ways or whether it's some who just challenge our classic way of looking at the labour market. Socialists do not think that the obligation to report should be determined by what platform or technology is used. It must be based on the relationship between an employee and an employer, a buyer and a seller, a tenant and a landlord. As Danes, we are generally used to our employer reporting our tax information to SKAT, and a similar model is also available in the rental area. We think it is very reasonable to challenge how we can develop the fact that we have a reporting obligation for the companies we are dealing with, so that the reporting of tax information will also be as flexible, as easy and as transparent as possible. That is also the position we have expressed several times in calling for the government to set in motion work in this area. What I also assume is relevant with this resolution is that it is an expression of the impatience that I think we share with Enhedslisten in getting started on some of these issues, and that is not only seen from a larger perspective. It is also about looking at the challenges that lie right ahead of us, because there is a need to control the tax situation. For some of the companies, in some cases, differ from the constructions of companies that we know about today. It has also been discussed here that it challenges the entire rental market. Well, it's the case that if I own a summer house and rent it through Novasol or a similar agency that has reporting obligations, they report the information to SKAT. Then I get a higher deduction, namely the base deduction of DKK 21,000. 40% and 40%. of the remaining amount, and I am not taxed by the 40% that I earn over DKK 21,000. If I rent my summer house privately, my base allowance will be halved to DKK 10,500. It looks different if I rent my apartment through Airbnb. Then I'll have to report myself and then choose between two models. One model is with a bottom allowance, where I get up to a minimum of DKK 24,000. a year, and the other is an accounting model where I can then pay tax on the rental income, but deduct the actual expenses. Therefore, the legislation today is not directly comparable when we talk about renting out cottage and renting out housing. However, I think that this is clearly one of the things that we must also discuss when we look at how we should ensure the reporting of tax data. It becomes more complex when it is also cross-border. If, for example, I... I didn't have a holiday apartment. Besides, I don't have a holiday home, so these are thought examples in France and rented it through Airbnb, the reports would also become more complex. So companies like Airbnb, GoMore etc. has shown that, in this way, there is a need to discuss how we make the construction, how we can change Danish legislation in this area, and how, if necessary, we can also create fiscal incentives for it to be mutually beneficial to companies, for the Danes in general and for the tax community. So we support the intention of the motion for a resolution. We are not voting for it, and when we do not vote in favour, it is because we believe that the resolution is too narrow in its wording in terms of the complexity and the slightly wider palette of companies that it is about and in terms of the challenges that the so-called shared or platform economy presents in this area. I also understand that an in-service analysis work has been started by the Ministry of Taxation, among others. The Ministry of Business and Growth, and I would like to call on the Committee on Taxation to produce a report in which we require the government to make some concrete analyses, and perhaps also to try to target it a little and take into account the complexity of it, and to indicate on the part of the Folketing what these are for some areas we particularly want to look at and get a little more in depth than we are given the opportunity to do with this motion for a resolution. I would like to suggest that we take advantage of this opportunity in the Committee on Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111431	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111440	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the nuance of the Socialist rapporteur: that we should think very carefully in this area and not just strike at the first and best proposal, because this is rather complicated. What I just stumbled upon was the statement that the Social Democratic Party was also very impatient in this area and that it was now about something happening. After all, Airbnb is not something that has arisen in the last nine months. I would just like to know what initiatives the Social Democratic-led government that sat between 2011 and 2015 took to tackle the fiscal challenges of the shared economy, when Social Democracy is so impatient today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111516	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111519	I am not sure I can give a brief answer to that, if I am to be honest. When I say impatiently, it's because we can see one thing is Uber, which I agree with is something a little different • how the spread of how these platforms are being used is taking off, and therefore I kind of share impatience. At the same time, and I also recognise that the rapporteur of the Left is aware of this, it is a complex area. That is why it makes sense to spend some time, and I also believe that that time and resources should, of course, lie in the ministries, in identifying how we should attack it. However, I think we can do this in the Committee on Taxation through a report and thus also try to signal what these are in some areas that we will pay particular attention to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111606	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111611	What I was actually looking for was a recognition that we now have a government that is acting. That's why I thought it was a little striking to hear about this impatience on the part of the Social Democrats, as if this has been a obvious problem for a number of years, which has been chosen to do nothing about. I would actually just like to ask that there was recognition that the problem is now addressed and addressed in a considered way, rather than a fresh shot from the hip. Then I would just like to point out that it has obviously not been a matter of concern when you were in government, but then you are in opposition. There are so many things, but of course I welcome a positive approach to the work that the tax minister has put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111652	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111655	Yeah, I guess it's gonna be a little political controversy. We used quite a lot of effort to combat social dumping... an effort that we fear will be weakened under this government. I fully acknowledge, and that is also what I said in order to respond directly to the question put by Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen that this is a complex issue. I think it is a good thing that the government has set in motion the work in inter-ministerial terms, both in the Ministry of Taxation and in the Ministry of Business and Growth. That's right. I think that was an excellent speech made by the tax minister in relation to getting reflected where there are some options. I kind of share that. The impatientness is that I think we have to make sure that it does not take 3 or 4 years to find a solution to the challenge we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111737	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111740	Thank you for the rapporteur's support for this intention. As I understand the position of the Socialists in the press, the Socialists also feel that there should be automatic reporting. And it may well be that we will end up producing a report in committee, and that could be one possible outcome. Another possible exit could be that, as Mr. René Gade, of the Alternative, suggests that perhaps in this proposal we soften the wording a little and send out a clear signal, a intention that when you work on this, you have to look carefully and positively at the possibility of looking at an automatic reporting obligation. For example, it would. is a line or an opportunity that the rapporteur would be able to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111825	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111828	Well, let me just repeat it: we believe that there should be a reporting obligation. That is also what I said, i.e. that I think that is really sensible. The Minister for Taxation also highlighted some of the challenges by simply introducing it, and that is why we think it may be a little more boring, but perhaps a little more correct and thorough to make a report in the Committee on Taxation, in which we will also have the opportunity to make some of the complexity that this contains. In the comments on the proposal here, Enhedslisten writes, in fact, that you want this social model in the private market. Well, I have to say that I think we're gonna need more work than just making a resolution in the Folketing. And that is why I think it is right to paint it a little more grey and make a report in the Committee on Taxation, where we will have the opportunity to challenge it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111914	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111920	Well, I'd like to thank you for your support for the principle of this. And it may also be that it ends with a story. What is meant by this proposal is, in fact, to streamline the already existing legislation with regard to the reporting obligation, even if it does not solve all the problems. But it is true, as the rapporteur says, that we in the Enhedslist have an impatience in terms of both promoting the shared economy, but also ensuring that it does not become a black shared economy, but that it becomes a white shared economy. However, I would like to thank you for your support for the principle of reporting. I am sure that we can continue to work on this on a sound basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331111956	I just have the addition that in a report we can make a good distinction between "if we are able to do so" and "if we are able to do so," what are the immediate challenges we think we should solve in the short run and what are some things that we want to explore a little more and which may require a little more analysis work. So I look forward to that discussion in the Committee on Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112017	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112024	After all, this proposal is about shared economy and, more specifically, about how to rent your home and how to ensure that it is taxed. I would like to make it clear that we in the Danish People's Party actually think it is quite good that you can rent out your accommodation as you can today. It is also quite legal, but there is, of course, the challenge that Enhedslisten rightly points out in the proposal, with what one then does to ensure that it also becomes a white economy, i.e. how to ensure that people are reported, that they have had this income by renting out their apartment or their owner's residence. I also think it is important to ensure that there are proper conditions, because there is a risk today that there will be unfair competition, in that there may be summer house owners or hotels that are subject to rules that make them report their income, while people through these services may be able to avoid doing so. So we fully share the intention that a framework should be found, so that there is room for the sharing economy and so that it is not too bureaucratic. In fact, I think that an obligation to report immediately sounds like an obvious and good solution, but there is also the big one, but in what the Minister of Taxation has said, that this will not hit Airbnb. So the challenge and the problem you want to solve are not going to solve this proposal. This is simply because Airbnb is neither a natural or legal person in Denmark nor has a permanent establishment in this country and therefore will not be covered by it. Does this mean that there should be no reporting obligation or any possibility of reporting forward-looking? No, I think it will end up with no matter what, but a solution may be to have a voluntary agreement with Airbnb, so they are reported. And the carrot, for them to join it, could be that you could give them the same opportunity as there is for holiday house owners today, namely that they get a higher deduction if they are part of an organized agency. In this way they get a carrot to be organized via Airbnb, and Airbnb has a carrot to get people with, in that they can say to them: you actually get an increased deduction if you do it via us. I think it might be a good solution to try to continue working on. Therefore, I also think it is positive that the tax minister, as he has said, is already in good dialogue with Airbnb, Horesta, Dansk Arbejd and other parties who have a share in this matter. I think that is very positive. So in the Danish People's Party we would really like to wait for the result of it, and that was also why I was interested in hearing in my question to the Minister whether it could not be ensured that it was, after all, quite quickly completed so that the parties could sit together. After all, it is a very real issue that lies and that we need to resolve, but it is also a problem that may require a slightly broader look at it than looking at the reporting obligation alone. One thing could be a deduction, as I have mentioned now, but also the one with a permanent establishment, I think it is obvious that we will get a round about. Forward-looking, it can therefore present quite great challenges, because you can easily imagine that some people may have a website or app to lie on a server or a company on Cayman Islands. And are they exempt from tax liability in Denmark? One might well say that it is here in Denmark that the values are created because this is where the houses are and are being rented out. So there are many aspects to it, and it is a very complicated issue that makes sense that we have a very well worked-out basis on which we, as Parliament, can take a position. So, in conclusion, I would just like to say thank you to Enhedslisten, because they rightly raise this issue. But I just do not think that the solution to introducing a reporting obligation in Denmark is the right one, because it does not want to hit Airbnb, for which we would actually like to try to put some sort of framework in order to fit into the company structure that is now in the industry. However, I would like to say that I really think it makes sense if, as has been suggested by the Socialists and also a little by the Minister, we try to see whether we can make a joint report or also try the model mentioned by Enhedslisten that we might be able to correct the motion for a resolution a little, so that it fits in with the ideas on which I actually think we are fairly in agreement in the Folketing. Because I don't really hear that there's a big conflict in it. But whether we should end up correcting the motion for a resolution or drawing up a joint report, I am actually reasonably open to looking at the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112439	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112442	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his positive statements on the proposal and the intention of the proposal. I can say that it has never been our view on the part of the Enhedslisten that this solves all problems. It has been an attempt to try well, we think ourselves to start the debate on shared economy. How do we make the sharing economy white instead of black? How do we get the debate started here in the Folketing? And how do we get this debate to take place at perhaps a little higher pace than has been the case in the past? But I would also like to thank you for indicating that we may be able to look at how we can organise the motion for a resolution in such a way that the wordings can perhaps be softened a little more if there is a desire to do so. I and Enhedslisten will be very accommodating about this, and Enhedslisten would also very much like to look at the possibility of looking at whether we in the committee can make a report and delve deeper into the problem at all. I think it would be extremely interesting to continue working on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112541	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112544	It wasn't that much of a question. I would also just like to sign for it and say that I very much agree with the views mentioned by Rune Lund. It's very constructive. I think it is obvious that we should sit together in the committee's work to find out a little bit in depth about it, but also to find out whether we can meet each other in relation to an approximation of the motion for a resolution or, if so, to draw up a report in order, after all, to raise this important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112603	Thank you. You just have to remember that it's called Rune Lund. Did Mr. Rune Lund want to make a second comment? No, okay. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go. I'm sorry, that's the lady's name. That's because the lady's name is here. You have to be careful about that. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331112623	Thank you. It will be in the family, and it is also at short notice that I have stepped in, but I do not know if one can say a nasty past as a tax rapporteur, and I am still a member of the Parliament's Tax Committee, so it is a pleasure to be allowed to discuss a proposal in the tax field again. It is then Enhedslisten who has tabled a motion for a resolution to look at the taxation ratio of the divided economy. And there is no doubt that there are plenty of positive elements in the shared economy and that the shared economy has come to stay. There are many advantages and opportunities in people sharing cars, clothes, apartments, garden tools and everything else. There is a huge potential in that, and it is a potential that we in the Left can easily see, and we can also see that it is a market that is developing really, really quickly. But, of course, there are also challenges in making a growing share economy work within the current framework of running a business in Denmark, which has a slightly more classical approach, where the sharing economy in its being is a know different. And, of course, this also means that, in the area of taxation, it presents some challenges. There, of course, I would like to note that the Minister of Taxation has already entertained and reported that work is under way to uncover the fiscal and fiscal consequences of the shared economy. In addition, work is also being carried out, among other things. in the Ministry of Business and Growth to identify the growth potential for the shared economy and for the development of technologies and other technologies in the shared economy. For there is a need for more knowledge and clarity about potential and pitfalls, and that is why it makes very good sense, as the debate has already reflected, that we will have a better basis for decision-making and take an even more enlightened discussion about the situation. It is probably doing something more useful when we have a more comprehensive basis on which to take a position, namely both the analyses initiated by the Minister for Industry and Growth and the analysis that the Minister for Taxation has also referred to today. Of course, tax legislation must be kept. You have to pay the tax you have to pay, regardless of whether you act in one way or another, whether it is a shared economy or not. If a benefit is taxable, you obviously have to pay tax. On the specific proposal, of course, it has been mentioned, but I would just like to say for the record that one should try to relate a little to the real reality. In the case of Airbnb, it is a company operating via a website which is based in the United States, and this is therefore a situation in which there is neither a natural or legal person resident in Denmark nor has what is called a permanent establishment. It then presents the natural challenge that the Folketing can adopt rules in this area, but they cannot then be enforced. And I do not think it is appropriate for us to strike the table and say that something must now happen, even though we know that it does not work. I therefore believe, as has already been said in the debate, that it makes very good sense for us to go deeper into this matter. And I think we should pay tribute to those who are taking the initiative, and someone has praised the Enhedslisten for that, but I think it is more appropriate in a way to praise the Minister of Taxation, because it was in this way the Minister of Taxation who took this discussion before the Enhedslisten put forward this resolution on 2 March. Now there should be no copyright on politics, but sometimes you should also remember who caught the ball first, and it was in fact in all modesty the tax minister who started this work. But, of course, it should not separate us, and as to who should be credited for what, it is the case that the victories have many fathers with whom others have entertained. However, I would just like to say that this is, of course, an exciting area, which also presents challenges in a wide range of legislative areas, because things are suddenly being approached in a different way. This changes the perception and the ability to operate, and it also has some fiscal consequences. It is therefore right, very wise, that we should have a careful look at the nails so that we act on an enlightened basis and also in such a thoughtful and wise way that it is a setup that also takes into account how things can develop in a relatively short time. I think we must also note that innovation in this area is probably a little bigger outside the Parliamentary Chamber than in the Parliamentary Chamber, but it would be a pity if we were constantly to come up with new initiatives because new ideas and new ways of doing business were created. Therefore, it would be nice to be able to make a setup that was more future-proof, and the solution to that question certainly cannot be given at this stage, but that is what is being worked out to obtain it. So with these considerations we have to say that we think this is an exciting area, but the resolution tabled by Enhedslisten cannot be supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113143	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113146	I would just like to make it clear to the rapporteur that this resolution is not an Airbnb proposal. It is not the case that we in the Folketing make legislation in relation to certain companies. It is a motion for a resolution which deals with reporting obligations for all companies providing rental services. Today, as has also emerged from the debate, there is in fact an automatic reporting obligation in the cottage sector. So my question is really: is the fact that there is an automatic reporting obligation, something that the rapporteur on the Left basically thinks is a sensible way of organizing this area, for example. in the housing rental area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113231	The minister. No, I am sorry, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113236	It's getting more and more festive here today! If you just read the first sentence of the comments on the proposal, you will see that Airbnb is directly mentioned. So there is a reason why part of the discussion is moving around the specific company. It is always a balancing exercise when to make third party reports. It is, of course, an easy and effective way if it can be enforced and if it can be implemented. Quite ordinary taxpayers today can open their tax files and see that SKAT already has a number of information that has been reported from the taxpayer's financial institution, their mortgage, their trade union • things are suppressed, they are reported, and it is of course easy and flexible. But it should not be the case that everyone who operates in Denmark is going to provide all the customer information, and I really think that the example of the summer cottage area is a good example of an area where there were some rules that might have been a little tricky in enforcing at the time. And in order to gain a greater degree of care, you gave the carrot that if you rented through an agency, which then got this reporting obligation, there was a greater tax credit than if you were responsible for it. I think that is a good way to find a solution to a problem, and it might well be an example to follow. But once again we must ensure that it is also an example that works in reality, and there are some pitfalls in relation to some of the examples that have been mentioned today, and that is one of them. the one that the analysis from the SKAT would like to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113416	It is true that Airbnb is mentioned in the comments. However, I would say that it would be strange to table such a motion for a resolution here without mentioning Airbnb, which is of course a very large player. But what is basic here is to say, in reality, that we need to streamline legislation, and Airbnb also rents summer houses. We know that this would be a first step, even in terms of getting the debate down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but if, as it were, you have the automatic reporting in place and that is why we are putting forward the motion for a resolution, it can, as it were, be chopped off, so that you can say: check, we have it under control. And then we have to look at questions of tax liability and permanent establishment, which is, of course, a longer discussion and which has to do with the double taxation agreements that have been concluded and so on. etc. At least we think, and that is why we put forward the proposal, that there is a logically low-hanging fruit or a logical streamlining of the rules that might just as well be made here. We would also like to take part in looking at whether something could be adopted that has a slightly softer wording with some declarations of intent. How would the rapporteur on the Left feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113517	Then we should give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113521	Thank you. After all, we are always involved in constructive discussions during committee work. There are various possibilities, and we need to discuss what somewhere is widely supported, that is to say what the tax minister has set in motion, namely that we have an analysis of this in order to get some future-proof answers in new ways of doing business. I would also be very surprised if we were not broadly agreed on this in the Folketing. So, of course, we take this constructively when the matter is dealt with in committee. Of course, I just have to challenge something that Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, namely that if we introduce this reporting obligation, it is under control. I think the wording was that way. Unfortunately, that is the challenge, because it is not that easy. Because if it is not enforceable, if the Danish tax authorities do not have the opportunity to say that these rules also apply to a company that is not registered in Denmark, then I also think that we leave the wondering population in a state that makes them think: Now they say they are doing something here in the Folketing, but they know that it doesn't work. I am, in fact, more concerned that we are doing something that has an effect that addresses the real problem, rather than saying that we are doing something that does not really solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113641	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party, and we move on to Mrs Merete Riisager from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331113702	At first, the left loved the sharing economy. It was understood that the shared economy should save the Western capitalist world from itself. By initiative and responsibility, citizens had to take over and help each other to solve the challenges and problems they had and in this way adapt themselves so that there was more sustainability and more social responsibility. Humans were supposed to reach for each other. Then something happened: Suddenly the red wing realized that the state could risk missing money, and then the winds turned. Suddenly, the sharing economy should not distribute so much among people; it should be regulated so that the values created between people did not pass by the state's nose. The debate on Airbnb is similar to the debate on Uber and other services that bring people together so that they can help each other solve a problem. Solutions like Airbnb allow ordinary people to do things they would otherwise not be able to do, for example. travel and get on vacation. Both for the person who rents his accommodation and for the person who can rent a home cheaply and easily and at the same time get an insight into the culture of the country in question • how do people live here and how do they fit in? In the case of Airbnb, there is a base allowance available for the citizen who rents his dwelling. I understand from the Minister that the vast majority of citizens who rent through the service are under this bottom-up deduction. Of course, for those who are above it, they must respect the law. Therefore, the individual citizen, who has an income higher than the 24,000 kroner, must report his income and pay tax on it. In fact, this maneuver is very similar to the way in which taxes were paid in Denmark in the past. You had an income, and you were responsible for paying tax on it. Today, most people do not know how much tax they pay and how this tax is composed. That's a huge problem. Trust between the state and the citizen has been replaced by a system where you can log in to your tax return, and if you are more than ordinaryly intelligent and resourceful, you can also see whether this has been put together correctly. I understand from the tax minister that Denmark cannot impose any obligation on Airbnb to report to SKAT, since the company is not resident in Denmark. Well, then it's not that much anymore. We must therefore be confident that the Danes pay the tax they must pay and that SKAT can verify the activities if they learn that cheating is taking place. That would be the right thing to do. At the same time, we must welcome the fact that the Danes have embraced the shared economy and that they are always solving problems for each other and thereby experiencing more freedom and prosperity than they would otherwise have. This is so good news in a country that puts the world's heaviest tax burdens on the shoulders of their citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114018	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114025	I actually thought that the Liberal Alliance was in favour of free and equal competition, that is to say that the operators operating must have the same conditions. We have in Denmark some holiday rental agencies that have been in existence for years and have done an important job of communicating holiday homes between customers who want to have a week at the North Sea, and people who have a summer house that they do not use all the time and who are subject to reporting requirements. Then there are others, now Airbnb, who are not subject to the same reporting obligation. Does the rapporteur not think that this is a problem at all? Now the rapporteur himself mentions Uber, who has nothing to do with the shared economy. Well, it's taxi driving. The shared economy is about sharing some common resources. It's kind of the basis. There are not many people who believe that Uber is a shared economy, other than themselves. But that is another example of unequal competition. Well, we have a taxi industry that is subject to some security requirements and tax payments. The rapporteur may then disagree with them, but some of them are still working. And then the rapporteur, God help me, highlights a company that is acting with completely unfair competition towards that industry. Is that what the Liberal Alliance stands for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114154	Thank you. It is absolutely true that the sharing economy challenges the way we do things, and we in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is basically very good. When we talk about the taxi industry and now we talk about something here that is not in this motion for a resolution, it is quite clear that it is an over-regulated industry. And then when a company comes up and challenges the way things are done in the taxi business, we should welcome it because it can then lead to deregulation. This is also true in relation to the rental of properties. After all, nobody says that the way we do things today is the right one. We should start by looking at whether there is anything in the existing industries we can deregulate instead of looking at the new industries and saying: How can we impose more regulation on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114246	Of course, civil disobedience can be positive, that is, breaking laws for questioning. But this is a big, global company that goes in and outbids, and who subjugates its employees, so when we talk Uber, not Airbnb. So it's a strange point of view that the Liberal Alliance has on this, namely that the fact that someone is breaking the law is a good way to challenge our rules. But if you think there is too much regulation of the taxi industry, then you can put forward proposals for less regulation. I would urge the Liberal Alliance to do that and then we can discuss it. Should we also let a food chain open without food control, because it is good that it challenges our demand for food control, and then it is too bad if someone gets sick from eating their food? I'm actually a little shocked by the Liberal Alliance's approach to this issue. In other words, whatever is considered, we must strive for free and fair competition between private operators, for example. the taxi area or the rental area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114351	We can hardly find a topic of conversation that makes the difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Left clearer. In the Liberal Alliance, we stand on the side of the citizens. In fact, we also believe that it is the citizens who are very much developing society. Good ideas about how society should be organized and how we create wealth and momentum come to a large extent from the citizens. It is quite wrong to say that you should always sit in here and come up with the brilliant proposals. We believe that innovation most often takes place in the public and we must make it as easy for citizens as possible to live the life they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114429	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114433	I do not think the rapporteur has replied to Mr Seligman's question. Pelle Dragsted's question about free and equal competition, but let it go. I would really like to ask a little about how the Liberal Alliance will ensure that the sharing economy that Enhedslisten wants to promote and share economy is in our optics not Uber; Uber is pirate taxi driving on a digital platform • becomes white instead of black. I note that the Liberal Alliance is not particularly favourable to the resolution or to the intentions of the Enhedslisten. However, I can also see from the debate we have had today that the Liberal Alliance stands alone with the view not to be in favour of the intentions and aims of the proposal. But what is the Liberal Alliance's bid on how to ensure that the share economy is promoted in the future, while ensuring that it becomes a white economy and not a black economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114539	This is again because we in the Liberal Alliance have a completely different approach to this area. The fact that such a resolution has been tabled here by the Enhedslisten is, to me, due to the fact that one is so afraid that the state is missing something. That is the first thing you think when the citizens start doing something of their own making: Oh, no, the state is now missing something? That is the whole idea. And you're thinking, there's gotta be something black here, it's black, something black happens. It's not safe. It may well be that the citizens are really creating growth and momentum and that it is not black. If then there is something that is not according to applicable rules and people violate the law, then the authorities must step in. But the very idea behind this motion for a resolution is, of course, that we are afraid that the state will miss something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114633	I would say that when we in the Enhedslisten think of shared economy, of which we are very much in favour, we do not think of black. We are thinking green, we are thinking the shared economy as a key part of the green transition, for which we are working very hard. We are thinking that the shared economy offers the opportunity to have a high level of prosperity while at the same time consuming less resources. So our starting point for promoting the shared economy at all is, of course, that we want the green transition and we are thinking green. However, it is true that, in relation to the Liberal Alliance, we have some other views on how much money is needed to finance the well-being of all of us. And it is true that we are concerned that there are enough educators in kindergartens, that we have a proper primary school, that there is proper care for the elderly and that there should not be cuts there. And one of the ways in which we prevent cuts from being made is to ensure that we also have a proper tax base in the future, with a growing share economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114728	Well, thank you. On the left, you think a lot in color codes: are things black, are they white, are they green? In the Liberal Alliance we welcome all growth regardless of colour. Growth is allowed in all colors of the rainbow. We appreciate that. There can be green growth, there can be blue growth, there can be all kinds of growth, as long as you do not break the law. But our starting point is a whole different one. We are positive about it when people of their own motion create wealth, creating new ways of solving problems for each other. And then we don't immediately assume there must be something wrong. We assume that this is a good thing as a starting point. If we find out that some people are breaking the law, then of course the authorities have to step in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114813	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114818	Thank you. I understand from the tale that I almost think it was, or history, that the Liberal Alliance in such a way pays tribute to the fact that there are company structures where you share, without necessarily involving the state or the state treasury. Then I have to assume that the Liberal Alliance is misquoted in an article from the DR of 15 January, which is precisely about political pressure on Airbnb, that they have to be controlled by the SKAT, and it simply states that both DF and LA are backing up, and it says here that we support the need for orderly conditions and that there must also be tax liability for these companies. Has it simply been misunderstood by DR in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331114915	It is then a classic concept used in the Social Democratic Party: arranged relationships. We can then disagree on what arranged relationships are. We must respect the law, and we have said so, and we continue to think so, and I have also said so in my speech, that citizens and businesses must respect the law. The question is how much to control and how to control, and that can be a discussion. I can't tell you exactly where we're gonna end up. I can say that, as a starting point, we think it is really positive that there are some who solve problems for each other in other ways than have been seen so far, and the first thing we think is not: is something wrong, does the state miss something? That's not the first thing we're thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115002	Then I do not think that LA has been misunderstood, but then you kind of back up the idea of how this fits in, because it is true that when you have a society and a community, you set it up according to rules which then have to be observed. We agree with the latter part. Then it is the question of what rules we are going to regulate it, and there it is traditionally the view of the Liberal Alliance, for example. Looking at the taxi industry, it should like to be a free market where you can undermine each other and see if you can get the lowest wages. I would just like to ask whether, in this area, we do not intend to engage positively in the search for ways in which we organise this community, so that we take account of the opportunities that exist, but, in fact, we also ensure that this is done in the area of orderly relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115048	But as I have said a few times now, the first thing we think is when we see these services, both Airbnb and others: how can we help existing industries become less regulated now that there are some industries that are deregulated? That's the first thing we think. We do not think first of all how we can regulate further. So what we're most concerned about is how we can help existing industries, and in this case, for example, it will. be the hotel business. Of course, if they have any desires for less regulation, we would like to look at it. That is our first thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115124	We thank Mrs Merete Riisager. There are no more brief comments. And we welcome the next rapporteur, Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115133	As I did during one of my questions to the Minister, I will start by signing for... no, I simply did not sign! I've always said to myself that I can never say signers, because I think it's such a strange word to use when you stand up here. On the other hand, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Tax on the proposal that was made on 15 January. The words I wish I had written about the alternative's approach to shared economy were, in fact, essentially verbatim those that came from the Treasury. It was a very, very progressive approach to the sharing economy, where you want to talk to the companies involved and where you want to find out how we are implementing legislation that suits a new reality. That's why I was also one of those who fought hard with the DR when they made that article to actually be quoted correctly in relation to where we stood. Because we fully agree with the intention of the resolution that has come from the Enhedslisten, and we also support it. But how do we get there? And in fact, I think the tax minister's approach is absolutely right. That is why we also have a challenge to move on from here. Because if we get this motion for a resolution voted down, I am a little afraid that there will be a long period of time when nothing really happens. Maybe we'll have it dealt with in the fall, and maybe we won't. That's where we're gonna get close to a problem. I think I was misinformed earlier, because I said that we were all clearly in agreement with the intention, but I can then hear that the Liberal Alliance does not agree with the intention. I can understand that in a sense, because when I hear about the shared economy, I also think in the first place: Yes, let us get all these thriving people to contribute in one way or another to the creation of growth. On the other hand, I think with an even greater question mark: what about the common fund? What about baby? What about the dynamo for our entire welfare community? So there we have a major problem right now with the fact that there is distrust of our tax system. I really think that is a pity, because it is a very good tax system. But there is distrust in the way we collect our taxes and in who pays and whether it is okay to work and pay black. A cross-party group has just been set up in the Committee on Taxation, which is very good. Here we look at the challenges that can be with black payment and undeclared work, and how we can minimise it. I therefore think it is essential that we have something here that really distorts competition at home and puts some industries down in relation to the opportunities that the shared economy has: we simply have to ensure some conditions for the companies that are in Denmark, which make them at least able to fight on equal terms with the new technologies that are coming. We must then find a way to do it where we do not slow down the new technologies. That is why I am very prepared to look at the motion for a resolution and see if we can get it through with some amendments that enable the tax minister to see the vision of the good involvement of the industry in this motion for a resolution and, if nothing else, to make a report. However, there is a strong indication from this that the motion for a resolution is essential and that we need to ensure that we support this new technology that is hurling out there without harming the players who are currently in Denmark. I would like to make one comment: this is again a good reason for the fact that there are also several IT rapporteurs in the room, that we have a new IT forum where we talk about such things, because I am not sure that it is just in the tax minister's area that we have to assess how we go about something like this. Perhaps there should be some visions about how to work with a new reality where digitisation is no longer digitalization, but where digitisation is just part of reality. And it's gonna be hard when we get many, many more of these questions, if we don't have a place where we discuss such things here at a slightly more ambitious and visionary level than if it's possible to get it implemented when these companies don't have an address in Denmark. I fully agree that this is a problem, but it should not be what slows us down in terms of also securing the Danish companies during that period, until we find out what is going to happen, thus providing them with a guarantee that they have a level playing field. So the alternative backs the resolution, but would very much like to change it a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115525	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115536	The smart thing about the sharing economy is that we can make a lot more of the resources we already have, the things we have already produced, the cars that have been made, the homes we have built. And if you look at the way we use things today, you have to say that there is a good reason for that. Because a car drives 4 percent. of the time, that is to say, it holds still 96 per cent. of the time. And out of the 4%. of the time when the car is driving, it is a quarter of that where it is queued or the driver is looking for parking. So 3%. We spend time driving in the car, and I think that on average there are one and a half people sitting in a car. So it's really a pretty foolish investment. If we now consider that one of our most expensive investments is a car, then it is a reasonably foolish investment when we only use it 3%. of the time. So the sharing economy is about using the things we have much smarter. The same could be said of buildings. Office buildings are used 25%. of the time. Similarly, why should there be a quite parallel infrastructure with hotels when you can live more fun, more exciting and more locally by e.g. To use a company like Airbnb? So there are a lot of good reasons for using the infrastructure and the things we have already built in a much smarter way. That's what the sharing economy does. So in addition to giving us all more opportunities, it's also quite smart environmentally, because you don't have to put an entirely new and extra infrastructure in the lake. And that brings some social benefits. There are several of these sub-services that also aim for people to meet each other in new ways. You shouldn't get too romantic about it, but some of them have it. And then, of course, there are a lot of financial benefits. So the divide economy has come to stay, and I think we're going to see a lot more of it. I think we're going to see a lot of industries that, in a fine word, are being disrupted. So, it's industries with companies that get a competitor a little a la Kodak, who had almost exclusive rights to sell films, and then the digital camera came and destroyed the business model completely. Similarly, I believe that the shared economy and many of the other new services can go in and take traditional industries with their pants down if you are not ready. So there is every reason to discuss the shared economy, its benefits and the opportunities that lie in it, but of course also the issues it raises. I think it is fine that today the Enhedslisten raises one of the issues we have discussed in the past, but where it is always good to push a little when there is a statement from a ministry. Then it is always good to take up a case, because it can be difficult to get them out of the ministries. However, this is certainly an important discussion, because we cannot, of course, undermine the standards and qualities we have fought for in our society. We cannot compromise on the need for tax dollars in the box to maintain our institutions, our schools and our welfare societies. We cannot compromise on a certain degree of safety in health and safety at work and environmental issues. So it's a lot of big questions coming to us in this time when the sharing economy is taking a lot of speed. On the other hand, it is also important that we see the possibilities in this and understand that it is something that is at the beginning and that we do not intervene prematurely with regulation, which can sort out everything in a Danish context. So that means we have to think really, really well before we go in and say that now it has to be done one way or the other or the third way. I therefore share the intention that, in addition to a minimum limit, if you earn money from renting your cars or your homes, it will have to be taxed. But we need to have a thorough analysis, and that is why, radically, we would like to wait for the report that the Ministry of Taxation has launched to look at the taxation of the divided economy. We'd like to look at the administrative consequences of this, see if they kind of outweigh the benefits. We look forward to the discussion with the tax minister. I think it is a good thing that he has given a commitment to call the rapporteurs for a debate on the future of this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115940	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331115950	I would also like to acknowledge that Enhedslisten is raising this debate. I believe that this is an extremely important debate to have, not least because of the whole debate on the shared economy which is going on over these years, it has to be said, because this is not a new issue. However, in addition to pointing out, as the radical rapporteur has said, the positive aspects, which are of course in large parts of the economy, also raise the question of how information on income is obtained in order, if necessary, to rent out, for example. His house or other needs to be settled. That is why I think it is quite appropriate, as Mr Enhedslisten proposes today, that there should be an obligation to report to companies, but that, of course, the whole discussion about what is incumbent on the individual in relation to reporting will also be opened. And that is why I believe that we need to look at how it becomes easier and simpler. In the end, of course, it is also a question of getting companies involved, so there will be an automatic report, which ultimately ensures that it is done easily and smoothly, as it does today with vacation rental and a number of other things, where it is done electronically via SKAT. I understand that there can of course be some challenges when we talk about a foreign company. On the other hand, it has to be said that when there is Danish legislation, it must of course also be enforced in Denmark, and therefore, of course, one also has to try to oblige these foreign companies to comply with the Danish legislation in force. So I think that these are quite legitimate issues raised by the motion for a resolution and that it is only good that SKAT and the Ministry of Taxation should be aware of them, so that they may get a little more speed on, and so that they also have a look at what solutions are available to enable both the development of the positive that is in the divided economy to continue, and it is of course ensured that it should not be such a free round, so that you can just as a private person put the money in your pocket, without, moreover, ever having it settled in accordance with current Danish tax legislation. So, on this basis, I can only say that we support the proposal. We think it is really good, and we think it is good that some of the focus is also on what to say: more shady parts of the demography.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331120203	Thank you, sir. Jonas Dahl. And there were no brief comments there either. We'll take a break for dinner till 8:00. 13.00. I can then say that the first rapporteur who can be looked forward to hearing after the midday break is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party. But at 8: 00 a.m. 13th, we'll start again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130000	We shall resume the debate on the motion for a resolution No. B 82, and we have come to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130025	The shared economy and the whole issue of disruption will be crucial themes for the world economy, for the whole of business development in the coming years. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing the subject today on the basis of the specific resolution, but we are choosing a different approach to this whole discussion than the authors of the motion, i.e. Enhedslisten, have chosen. We, the Conservatives, have wanted to choose to embrace the divide economy and the opportunities that lie in the divide economy, for the Danes, for Denmark, for the world community, in general for the whole welfare development of the world. And that's what it's all about... what an approach you have to it. I think that we should be positive, constructive and look at the opportunities that exist, instead of looking at the obstacles that exist with the divide economy and the disruptive trends that are also in the economy at all. The shared economy, and in these cases Airbnb, offers some fantastic opportunities to make better use of resources, allowing all people in this society to have more competition, more transparency, more transparency and lower prices when travelling in and out, while also giving the landlords some opportunities to make some money alongside and even act as their own. After all, it is all clear, good purposes that a society needs, that is to say, that it can be more self-supporting, while at the same time offering services that are already there. So the entrance must be that we are trying to look at how we can do better to make better use of the opportunities that exist in the shared economy, including in this case with regard to Airbnb. The second dimension, of course, is that in a society there must be equal opportunities for all. There must be a level playing field, there must be a level playing field with regard to legislative initiatives, there must be a level playing field when it comes, for example, to paying taxes. That is why we also think that this is a good initiative that the tax minister has taken to look at these things. It announced the tax minister in his speech, and he has also been out saying it publicly two months ago, namely that the government will look at the various elements of the shared economy. Of course, it is not straightforward. When I say that we must embrace the divide economy and be positive about it, it is also on the assumption that there is, of course, a level playing field, that when there are some regulatory requirements for one type of actor, they must of course also apply to other types of actor. Of course, when some players pay taxes, other players also have to pay taxes, so they compete on the same terms. But it must be possible and this is the way forward for the discussions that are going to give the shared economy fantastic opportunities, also in terms of renting out its dwelling, also with the tax credit rules that exist in this respect, while, of course, creating a more equal competitive environment. This means that we in the Enhedslisten cannot support the resolution, although we think it is a good discussion and that it is a relevant topic to discuss, but it is too categorical, it is too brutal. And the second dimension is that in reality this cannot be done, because it is an operator operating from the United States, and thus it is not under current Danish legislation. In the end, then, the website must be closed down, and we will certainly not be involved in that by the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130348	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130350	I would like to make it clear to the rapporteur that this is not an Airbnb proposal, but that it is a proposal aimed at ensuring in general terms that all companies providing rental services must carry out automatic reporting. As I understand it, and as I have read statements by the Conservative People's Party in the press, we are basically in favour of the automatic reporting mechanism. Is that still the position of the Conservative People's Party? I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130427	Yes, as I mentioned, there are two dimensions to it. One dimension is that we want to embrace the divide economy, and the other dimension is that we want to have a level playing field. And if it can be done in the way that there is an automatic alert if you, for example, get an automatic alert. rents out its holiday home through some holiday rental company and it comes over a certain amount of money, and if it can be done without hindering competition and without hindering the development of the shared economy, then I think it is a good idea. Because there must be a level playing field for all market players.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130506	I'd like to sign for that. Because there has been a discussion in connection with the discussion of the proposal in this Chamber as to whether it might be possible to soften some of the wordings, so that the Folketing might be able to express an intention that, in connection with the work being done in the Ministry with a report, it will look positively and thoroughly at the possibilities of automatic reporting. And this is also very well linked to the debate and the rapporteur's comments on equal conditions of competition. And now that we are living in a capitalist society, it is not an unreasonable requirement to make. I also note that in today's debate there is a disagreement between the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, which does not have the same concern about these equal conditions of competition. But could a softer wording possibly be edible for the Conservatives in the context of the committee work that is going to take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130555	I mean, I think that the free market is a good thing for the citizens. But I am not a liberal in the sense that it is the law of the jungle that should apply. Therefore, the same rules must apply to everyone, and the state can help to ensure that. In this case, we cannot support the proposal because it cannot be done in the real world, and we would rather embrace the divide economy and wait for the government to finish their analysis of this with the aim of achieving as much shared economy as possible with fair and fair conditions for everyone, so that the same conditions apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331130645	I think we have had an interesting debate today. This may be because this is the first time that we have been discussing in earnest the economy and taxes of the Parliamentary Assembly. Perhaps that is why so many people would like to speak. That is also why the debate has been going on for a long time. So I think it is interesting that we in general, as Parliament, are starting to discuss how, at this time when the divide economy is gaining ground, we are ensuring that we can promote the positive aspects of the divide economy, because it is really good because it enables a high level of prosperity and prosperity, while at the same time using fewer resources. However, in that discussion, it is also important that we ensure that the shared economy does not become a black shared economy, but becomes a white shared economy. It is certainly a discussion and a debate that we in the Enhedslist would very much like to contribute to. We also believe that it is important for companies that are part-economic companies, like all other companies, to comply with the law and pay the right tax. It is in this context that we have tabled this motion for a resolution. It is the case that if a taxpayer, for example, is a resident of a Member State other than that of another Member State. rents its leisure accommodation via a rental agency, the agency is under the law obliged to report the profits on behalf of the landlord. That is why we believe in the Enhedslisten that we have put forward the proposal that it is quite natural that services such as this one should be provided. Airbnb will also be subject to reporting obligations. We have had a discussion on whether this proposal can be adopted, and I have at least been able to see that there is a very sympathetic attitude towards the intention of the proposal and the aim of the proposal. There is also, as I am hearing today's debate, a majority in the Folketing which, in this way, supports the principle of automatic reporting obligations. I think that is an interesting result to get out of today's debate. There are then some rapporteurs who have argued that perhaps we could change the wording a little and make it a little softer so that we can show what the intention is, but in a slightly different way. I would just like to say that in the committee work that is going to be, we will be very sympathetic to it to see if we can give a direction to the work on automatic reporting in the ministries, but we may not want to put too narrow a line on it if there is a perception that the wordings contained in the proposal now are just too narrow. We will be very much involved in this. In addition to the fact that we have taken the debate today, and in addition to the fact that, as far as I can see, a majority of automatic reporting obligations can be established, we have also caused the tax minister to say in this Chamber that the tax minister wants a discussion with the parties of the Danish Parliament. I think that is also a concrete result of today's debate. I also believe that the possibility of making a report in the Committee on Taxation in connection with the work of the committee on this motion for a resolution is a concrete result of the debate we have today. So I actually think there are good opportunities to go ahead with this work and to see if we can find out anything concrete about it. I am well aware that the Enhedslisten is well aware, and other rapporteurs have also put it in this Chamber, that such a proposal on reporting obligations does not solve all the problems. Far from it. It should be seen as an attempt, but a good attempt, I think, to promote the debate on the shared economy and on the white divide economy. But it is also clear that these are the first small steps we are taking, and we are not the only parliament in the world that has the challenges of adapting legislation, including tax legislation, to the shared economy. So the initial exercises we do here happen parallel to many similar ones in many other parts of the world. But even if you make an automatic reporting obligation, it is clear that companies that are not taxable in Denmark will not be covered by it. So even if, at some point and possibly in connection with this motion for a resolution, we adopt something about automatic reporting obligations, there will be plenty of other tasks afterwards, which we will have to decide on. Sir. For example, Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned. It is a question of a permanent establishment: what does it take for a person to be taxed in a country? When you look at the definitions that are on it, that there must be a physical presence, and on some of the demands that have been made, it is quite clear that it is definitions that have been drawn up from an old economy, if I may call it what is not adapted to a new reality. This means, of course, that we need to have a discussion about what it means to be taxable in Denmark and how we organise the rules so that we can be taxed in Denmark when it makes sense. It makes sense based on all common logic, I and Enhedslisten would think that if a holiday home is rented out which is physically located in Denmark and which cannot be moved, and it is a Danish person who is taxable in Denmark who rents that holiday home, it should be the case that the activity that takes place should be taxable. This will certainly be the starting point for Enhedslisten in the discussions that we will at some point certainly have on how we will apply the rules of tax in Denmark. After all, this is an agenda that Enhedslisten has taken a great deal of interest over the years, namely how we ensure that companies, including multinational companies and cross-border companies, contribute to the common fund and common welfare, so that it is not only ordinary taxpayers who pay taxes, but also companies. With those words, I think it has been a good debate. I hope that we can adopt something, perhaps some soft wordings. I look forward to the work on a report and I look forward to the discussions we will have with the tax minister. And I am glad that we are now also discussing these things in the Folketing, and I hope that in the future we will do so much more. I can also say that Enhedslisten has several suggestions on slipping. We have a proposal for Uber in the pipeline. After all, we do not see Uber as a shared economy, but as a pirate taxi service on a digital platform. But you could say that it's still part of this problem. So we, at least from the Enhedslisten side, will help to keep the discussion going in the Chamber and, of course, we also want to see whether we can get some concrete things through in the discussion of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331131345	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331131358	The debate is open. Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331131414	It has not been many years since the ugly face of the financial crisis ravaged the global economy. When the Lehman Brothers financial group filed for bankruptcy on 5 September 2008, it was the culmination of a longer process in which greed had had a good and thorough grasp of the practice of the financial world at that time. As you know, the crisis led to one of the worst financial conditions since the Great Depression of the 1930s. There were many factors that made it go as wrong as it did. Basically, the regulation of the financial market must be pointed out as one of the crucial points. Today, it should also be a clear statement that the regulation was inadequate and too relaxed. There is a need to have strings in market forces in a sensible way, otherwise they will run out of control. For politicians, it is a bottom-up task to ensure that we do not experience anything that just resembles that financial crisis again. The damage was enormous, and some will think that we are still feeling the consequences today. In any event, the financial crisis resulted in bank crashes, bankruptcies, falling housing prices, rising unemployment and deficits in the general government balance. Denmark's GDP decreased in the period 2009-2013 by 400 billion. kr., just as tens of thousands of private jobs disappeared. Both companies and ordinary Danes were hit hard, and it has taken years with a wise fiscal policy and sensible investment to get to where we are today. Therefore, it is also with concern that L 146 is read. The bill deals with a cornerstone of trust and regulation of companies, namely the review. Accountants are rightly referred to as representatives of public confidence. Accountants ensure that companies' accounts are transparent and trustworthy. This is absolutely crucial for the justified confidence, transparency and clean lines; it is the basic ingredient of the recipe to prevent a new financial crisis and also to ensure a healthy financial sector. If I may say that the draft law is being read with great concern, that is precisely because it seems that the ills of the financial crisis and, above all, the source of it have been forgotten today, less than ten years later. With the bill, the government is actually proposing to reduce the independence of auditors, and this is very worrying to the Socialists. The aim of the bill is to implement an amending directive and a regulation from the European Union. And that very work was set in motion at the edge of the financial crisis, so that we had to ensure that the rules in the area of auditing were changed, so that transparency and so-called compliance were brought to the forefront and top priority. The work of the European Union has had its origins in a very relevant purpose, precisely that. Unfortunately, the good intentions have not found their way to the government's bill, so it is right to question whether, firstly, the bill strengthens the independence of Danish auditors and, secondly, whether there is a reasonable balance between the control of companies with public interest on the one hand and social considerations on the other. Specifically, the concerns of the Socialists are directed at two issues. One is the definition of the so-called PIE companies, and the other is the lack of independence of the auditors. The definition of the PIE companies is absolutely central here. The definition covers undertakings with a public interest and sets out the requirements for the company's audit. The draft law suggests that the definition of the PIE companies is narrowed very much even. In future, the PIE definition will be limited to listed companies, credit institutions and insurance companies. Thus, the definition does not include large fund-owned and unlisted public limited companies, as well as municipal and state companies. It's very important. All of a sudden we see a portfolio of companies going from 800 to 385 companies. This also means less scrutiny for the auditors today, plus that they will be exempt from the new stricter rules on the independence of auditors. So when it makes sense to talk about which companies fall within the PIE definition, this is because it is a tool that ensures control of companies whose losses and bankruptcy will have social consequences. It is precisely with the bill that the government will quite exempt a large number of companies whose losses and bankruptcy are going to have serious negative consequences from revision, and that is unwise. At the same time, the draft law does not support the independence of auditors, on the contrary. The draft law will allow an audit firm to provide several different services to the same company. The starting point of the Regulation is that an audit firm can provide an audit of an entity's accounting records and at the same time provide non-audit-related advice to the same entity. However, non-audit advice must not exceed 70%. of the fee for the audit. The draft law suggests that this should be dispensed with and, at the same time, there is a different calculation from the one proposed by the regulation. Again, there are some relaxations here, which the Socialists are very concerned about. There will be a major conflict of interest that will flourish. There is no doubt that memory is often short in politics, but right here the government is taking the price with this bill. For this reason, the Social Democrats will take reservations in our support for the bill. I would like to emphasise that our starting point is that the draft law must promote the independence of auditors and prevent us from facing a financial crisis again. That is absolutely crucial. We also call on the Minister to call for negotiations on the content. Our final position will depend on further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132005	Thank you. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132008	My question is actually quite simple and concerns the definition of these public-interest companies, PIE companies. I just want to know whether the Social Democrats are aware that the definition and scope of the government correspond to what is happening in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132037	Yes, I am, but I am also aware that they, for example. on the Dutch side, it has already been said when the Commission's work started back in 2010 that they have already taken the full step and, among other things, that they have not been able to do so. The Socialists believe that work should be done on the basis of the definition, which also includes the unlisted companies, the municipal and state companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132100	In terms of how to do it in Norway, although they are not members of the European Union, how to do it in Sweden and how to do it in Germany, I would just like confirmation that the definition proposed by the government with this bill corresponds to what is being done in our very nearest neighbouring countries, as has been done for a number of years, when the provisions that have been in the directives which have been in force so far and where it has been said that this is going to go on, so that the new stricter requirements on which the draft law is implementing the directive apply only to the companies on which we have been driving in the countries concerned and which the government is planning to drive in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132138	The rapporteur from the Left begins to mix apples and pears together, because the rapporteur from the Left wants to compare the Danish economy and the structure we have in Denmark with, among other things, Denmark. the business structure that is in Sweden. To this I can only say that Denmark is characterised by the fact that we have many large unlisted companies and that the same does not apply in Sweden. So if you start making that comparison, I think you have to go deeper than the rapporteur from the Left has just mentioned here. At the same time, we can also say that the large companies that we have in Denmark are increasingly using what are called the alternative unregulated exchanges. This also puts us in a position where we cannot be compared. Sweden, for example, has have 25 regulated listings in 2015, where Denmark has only had 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132226	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132236	Now we are standing here after a long run at first reading of a proposal for a revision of the existing auditor's law. It has been through a longer process and many parties have been consulted. Many different views have also been expressed in this regard. The purpose of this proposal is, of course, to give the Minister the opportunity to implement the EU directive on amendments to the statutory auditor directive in his written submission. And then it is also the aim of the legislation here and the changes that are, to bring into line with the EU's new regulation on specific requirements for the auditing of public-interest companies, i.e. these PIE companies, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned in his rapporteur speech here in the Folketing. In concrete terms, the government seems to be putting in place a reform of the existing over-implementation, which is spent a great deal of resource time making visible, and it is of course also worth all honour and respect that one is practicing to get more over-implementation out of Danish legislation. Then there is also what is in the initiative here, namely the requirement that this review protocol be repealed in all companies. After all, the concessions contained in the legislative initiative are very plausible in relation to the introduction of more relaxed requirements for small Danish companies. There are also some relaxations in relation to the parliamentary term for audit companies from the current 3 years to 6 years. And then the government's plan also relaxes in relation to access to these so-called tax and advisory services, which lie in a defined context. In the Danish People's Party we are not enthusiastic about everything that comes from the EU, and that also means that every time we have to deal with legislative initiatives here in the Danish Parliament, which are based on the implementation of EU directives or other EU regulations, we do so on the basis of the deviate that we will assess what is best for Denmark and Danish interests and not what is best for the EU's interests. I think that we have many examples of what comes from the European Union, not always to the benefit and benefit of Danish companies or Danish citizens. We are also concerned about some of the things that lie in this bill, among others. What Mrs Mette Reissmann also said about the non-listed companies in Denmark. These are large companies which, for example, are not on the Stock Exchange, and where they saw with this bill as part of this overimplementation, which has to come out of Danish legislation, they can look forward to fewer audit requirements than they have been faced in the past. It sounds very enticing to me, but I again think that we need to aim for what is best for Denmark and Danish interests, and not what is best for the European Union. So we have some concerns in the Danish People's Party about whether it is really a sensible arrangement to make, that is to say that we remove these audit requirements from such large, vital companies solely on the basis that they are not listed, but that they act on a different basis in Denmark, for example as large family-owned companies. If we have a large family-owned company in Denmark with many thousands of employees, the effect in Denmark is purely socio-economic and structurally equally harmful if they are, for example. 6,000 people lose their jobs by bankruptcy in a company listed on the Stock Exchange or by doing so in a company not listed on the Stock Exchange. That is why we actually believe that, from the point of view of objectivity, it should perhaps be the same audit rules that we make for companies that are otherwise comparable to each other on all kinds of other links and edges. What then speaks a little against it and it is always a pleasure to be allowed to speak a little against itself, for then there is no one who can contradict a fact that we have, for example, relatively few audit companies of the caliber that operate here in Denmark and who are able to give this very large and extensive review of Danish companies. There are also some of these companies who have made known to us in connection with the preparation of this bill that there will in fact also be some examples in which they will find it difficult to find different audit companies, because they typically have several large accounts which need to be audited. And if they are going to enter, for example, through these partner rotation schemes, as there are, then it might also be possible to find that it is difficult for companies if we impose these restrictions on them. These are some things that the Danish People's Party would like to see clarified further in the forthcoming committee work, and we are not going to say at this stage whether we are in favour of this bill or whether we are going to vote against it. Depends on what comes next. In connection with the discussion so far, we have also had a discussion about this with the companies which are municipally anchored, i.e. the small municipal communities, where it is also in the draft that has been submitted for consultation and so on. The Minister has said that it is possible to give a ministerial authorisation. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party do not want that, so it is also a place where we need to have some changes outlined so that we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132811	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132813	I always think it is quite fair to have the approach that we should adopt what is best for Denmark • I think that is an ambition that we share. And it is actually in the light of the quite reasonable starting point that I would ask whether Dansk Folkeparti is not worried that we are making demands on companies located in Denmark that are tougher than if the very same companies were in Sweden or Germany, because that would obviously mean that we would impose more costs on a company located in Denmark than if it were in Sweden or Germany. And in terms of doing what is best for Denmark, it must of course be to ensure that we do not impose burdens on Danish companies which are not imposed on their competitors in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331132908	In other words, with all due respect, the companies we are talking about here, which may drift out of the current accounting law, are companies which have very, very large turnovers and typically also very large profits. That is why I do not think that it is this individual audit expenditure which is decisive for one or the other approach to it that does not take up so much after all. I quote, as I said at the beginning, that we want to look at what is best for Danish interests, and there it is, for example. such, if we look at some of the consultation answers we have received from e.g. Danske Lawyers that they actually say that it is worrying that the experiences of the recent financial crisis seem to have been suppressed. It is precisely this review that can help to ensure that there is a great deal of faith in the Danish companies, and that means that revision means something. If we then in Denmark start to remove important audit rules, it will also mean something at the other end, and I therefore do not think that with all due respect I am well aware that it is an expense for these companies to have the audit of their companies that that amount is so much in relation to the consequences it could have for many, many thousands of employees if you have a worse and more lax audit control.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133029	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Hans Kristian Skibby mentions the one hearing answer that is critical, otherwise there is a clear feedback in the consultation responses from professional organisations that have responded to this, which says that it is wise of Denmark that we follow a minimum implementation. Danish lawyers are the only ones who oppose it. Surely it cannot be a great surprise that some who have an interest in selling consultancy services are trying to protect their business. There is nothing unorthodox about trying to protect one's own interests, that is entirely legitimate. However, can the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party just confirm, for the sake of good order, that there is generally very broad support in the consultation responses for us to make a minimum implementation, thereby giving Danish companies the same conditions as apply in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133125	Yes, but I actually think that is what I was talking about in my rapporteur's speech, where I said that this draft law is more complex than that, because there are some things that are quite obvious that we should of course introduce it. On the other hand, however, we also need to look at some of the criticisms that are justified. That's why we have three readings here in the Folketing. It is such a good custom that you have had before we were elected, both the questioner and I and, of course, we also have to stick to it. But that does not change, we have to have those things examined in committee work, although I am well aware that there are some who are happy about it. After all, the rapporteur himself mentions that some have given positive responses to the consultation. Perhaps they do, because they themselves have a purely commercial interest in keeping legislation at the current level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133208	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133223	I would actually like to start in the same place as the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely with a financial crisis which has marked not only the Danish economy and the European economy, but also the global economy, and which has left some traces. Of course, we have all had some experience of this, and that is why, of course, in such a central body as the European Union, there has been a large number of reflections and initiatives to ensure that we do not repeat ourselves. One of the things that has been set up is, of course, the audit rules to see whether the audit rules that apply have been sufficient, whether there has been independence, whether the declarations and the content of the audit have been adequate and whether the right information has been provided. This has led to a large number of changes, and the proposal made by the Minister for Industry and Growth, which we are now considering, implements both the EU's Eighth Company Directive and the consequences of a number of regulations which require various adjustments to Danish legislation. It is a quite comprehensive legislative proposal which deals with a large number of elements relating to many, many aspects of the revision. It is everything from the definition of public-interest entities, the approval of foreign auditors, the performance of the audit, the reporting of auditors, quality control, public oversight, sanctions and the publication of decisions in which auditors have been charged with their work, to their term of office, redundancies, minority protection and a large number of additional elements. I must spare everyone to mention all of them, but basically it is a question of ensuring that there is a proper setup that allows there to be confidence in the audit. The way in which the task has been carried out at home implies that at the same time a Audit Commission has been set up, which has looked at a number of these tasks. As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, a minimum implementation of the EU directive is being proposed, with one exception, in which, as usual, I had almost said, we are demanding a number of statements which we still want to get across and we continue to do so. But otherwise it is an implementation of the directive in the sense that we should only impose the same burdens on companies in Denmark as similar companies in other countries and we can already see in our neighbouring countries that those burdens are imposed. There has been broad support for this in the consultation responses. Because when the rules are tightened up for these companies with public interest, it will be a heavy review to be carried out, and then I think it is quite natural that the government has given some thought to how many companies should be subject to the new stricter requirements and regulations. I think it is a very good idea for us to look beyond our borders and look at what our neighbouring countries are doing. I must say that at least I am not left with the impression that what is happening in Sweden, Norway and Germany is simply a plain country and a clone, and that there are parties and colours and no seriousness and respect for the revision, on the contrary. Therefore, it makes great sense for me to see that we are aiming for a minimum implementation in order to ensure that we do not impose burdens on Danish companies which are not imposed on their competitors in neighbouring countries. This is one of the themes that has been addressed in the consultation responses. Something else has been done about how much advice an accountant who audites a company's accounts has to deliver to the same client in terms of ensuring independence. There is again a call for implementation, which is close to the directive and which limits the amount of advice to be provided, while at the same time ensuring that the review is carried out. There are also relatively detailed rules on which persons within an audit company may then resolve one task or another. I think that a sensible balance has been struck between the need to implement EU rules, and the need to do so wisely and appropriately, and the fact that we do not impose more rules and more legislation on companies than we are obliged to do. That is why it makes very good sense for the government to also deliver what the Left went to the polls, namely to do neighboring checks and to look at what other countries do when we look at EU legislation, and not to do an overimplementation. This is a very good example of how this is the approach, and to no one's great surprise, I can say that the Left naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133721	There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133726	Thank you. The rapporteur asked, among other things: I mean what I thought about Sweden and the Swedish business community. I can almost reverse the question, because it is the case that the Danish business community is characterised by the fact that we have very large unlisted companies. In other words, 11 of the 20 largest Danish companies, measured on turnover, have unlisted shares and thus represent a significantly higher share than in Sweden, Holland and England. And I would say that we can therefore look forward to the new definition proposed by the government of the PIE companies, which will mean a fall of 415 companies, which will no longer be subject to the stricter requirements. At the same time, it should not be taken into account precisely to strengthen the auditor's role as a social representative of confidence, which the regulation lays down. Is the rapporteur of the Left not concerned about what will happen in the future, given that we are just thinking about OW Bunker and, moreover, know that we are facing stock exchange listings of very large Danish companies? Does it not worry the rapporteur of the Left that it is simply a reduction in the PIE definition that the government is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133838	I think it makes sense to look at what is working in other countries. I am not aware that the way in which the rules have been dealt with in other countries has given rise to serious problems. Otherwise, the directive would probably have looked different too. And that is why I believe that what is essential to compare is companies with certain characteristics. Is it completely crazy to say that a company with certain characteristics in Denmark must be audited in the same way as if it were in Sweden? I do not think it is entirely wrong to make that comparison. Finally, let us bear in mind that in this we are talking about stricter rules for some particular companies. It is not the case that we say that in the other companies with billions of turnover there will be no control. Of course, there will continue to be. But it seems to me that this is a good reason for us to be clear whether we want to do over-implementation or not. On the left side, we have said that we do not want to overimplement. We are inspired by how some of our neighbouring countries have implemented EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331133942	After all, the rapporteur and I agree that we must avoid at all costs a financial crisis of the kind that has almost just escaped us. However, I have another question which is also about a concern raised by the Socialists, and there I would like to hear whether the Left does not have a similar concern. A long time ago someone said that I think it was in the Bible that you cannot serve two masters, and that is what many auditors do, by both providing a statutory audit and providing tax advice to the same company that they have to audit. The Regulation provides for a 70-percent limit for the calculation of the audit fee, and the Government's draft law now provides for derogations from the 70-percent requirement. Does it not worry the rapporteur that all of a sudden here we are giving up completely and thus starting to mix hats and not helping to increase confidence in the role of the accountant?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134039	As I started by saying, and in response to the first question, I would like to say that we are in complete agreement. It is about ensuring that we have a general setup in our economy that equips us as best we can to face the risk of a financial crisis again. In this context, I have to say that the provisions that exist have been put in place precisely to create a ceiling. However, the directive also allows this derogation to be granted. I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party actually mentioned that in relation to some of the tasks we might have to deal with such large companies that it can be difficult to find enough companies to solve them. And then it's a derogation. There is no general access to it. However, if there is now a special situation for a single year, it is a pity that you have to change accountants because one year you need more advice than 70 per cent. of the audit fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134133	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134136	This is a little in line with Mrs Mette Reissmann's question, because I think that the rapporteur did not answer the question that was raised in the first place, namely the fact that our business structure is, in other words, the different types of business we have in the countries with which the rapporteur compares. We have a tradition in Denmark of family-owned companies, and we have foundation-owned companies, and this is even the intention of the government. We have seen this with the Finance Act and the tax reductions that are planned to accommodate and promote a development in which we maintain and develop the two forms of ownership as prominent in Danish business. That's why I actually don't think it's quite fair... I don't know, maybe it's a hard word to use this comparison. Because if Sweden or the other countries had some form of ownership that resembled those that are so prominent here, then it might have been that they had also adapted their audit rules differently. The crucial thing must be to compare companies which, if I may say so, have the same risk profile for society. And there I simply cannot see the difference between whether a company is listed, unlisted, fund-owned or family-owned if it has a high risk profile. So I actually don't understand that argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134259	I am pleased that Enhedslisten's representative drew the accusation that it is untenable. It is just a matter of political disagreement, and that is quite another matter. See, there are several key reasons why you have a review. It is creditor protection, but it is also investor protection. One might say that in a company owned by a commercial fund there is not the same need for investor protection because there are no investors. That's where people shop stock on the Stock Exchange. I think you have thought very well when you made this directive in the European Union. Because it takes into account, to the extent necessary, that there are differences and that there is therefore the possibility of making different definitions. And there I just think that what is useful in our neighbouring countries is also useful here. We are not in favour of over-implementation in the Left, and that is what we are implementing with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134406	No, we are certainly not in favour of over-implementing anything from the European Union, unless what is coming is sensible. And then, in this case, we think that you are underimplementing in a way that is not beneficial to our society. So I do not just think that there is political disagreement. I think we need to consider the argument put forward by the rapporteur to compare some incomparable sizes, as Mrs Mette Reissmann also mentioned. In other words, the aim is, of course, that the burden on business should not be too great. This is a perfectly fair objective, but when you look at the financial costs, you can see that the fewer PIE audits here will ease the burden on business of about 18 million. kr. a year, i.e. overall on all the Danish companies that are covered. When you consider that Danish companies paid dividends of over 70 billion. kr. Last year, it's a very, very small amount. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: is the less control related to it, I think, to very low cost reductions that will result from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134512	Well, you just have to remember the starting point for the bill, namely that the rules we are talking about for these companies of particular public interest are being tightened up. And the question is whether you want to impose stricter rules in addition to companies in Denmark when you have not had the tough rules in our neighbouring countries in the past. And I think that this is a good opportunity to say: when the rules are tightened up, should we continue with the same definition? As I also answered an earlier question, it is not the case that the review will disappear. Well, there will still be an audit requirement. There are some stricter rules for these companies, and we think they should apply to the companies defined in the directive and not to any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134551	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134553	Does the rapporteur recognise that we have a different business structure in Denmark than in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134600	There's that I think is obvious to everyone. But it is always a good starting point to say that it is treated in the same way, and that is what we are proposing. We say that, in relation to the definitions that the directive allows for, which are applicable in Sweden, Germany and Norway, I believe that some of the rules also apply in the UK area, so those who are identical should be exposed to the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134640	I take that as a yes: you recognise that there is a different business structure in Denmark than in our neighbouring countries. I hear the rapporteur say that it should be treated equally, but should it not also be dealt with differently? If we have a different business structure, where we actually have some very large and important companies that are not necessarily just listed but owned in a different way, should we not also have to safeguard both the creditors of companies and society against the danger that may be if they are not properly audited?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134711	First of all, I think that the final marking is a bit strange: we are not being properly revised. This is therefore a question of making stricter requirements for certain specific companies. Then I have to say that this is about the rules that apply. I cannot understand why the starting point of the Radicals must be that if a company has a completely identical competitor in Sweden, it is quite natural that there should be stricter auditing rules in Denmark compared to Sweden. I guess it's about saying that to those companies that have the specific characteristics, we make the same demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134748	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331134807	In the Enhedslisten, as the questions to the previous rapporteur may have shown, we are sceptical about the proposal as it stands. We generally agree that over-implementing requirements and legislation from the European Union must be avoided when it makes sense. We just don't think it does in this case. We do not believe that it is for the benefit of our society to underimplement or not overimplement in this case, because we do believe that it is absolutely essential that we have tough rules for the review of our large companies, because this is the audit that we must have full confidence in assessing whether things are going on properly, in other words as public opinion and also as investors, as mentioned. I really think it is remarkable to note the response from Danske Lawyers who are asking whether we have already forgotten the financial crisis. I think that is a central point. In fact, I think it is thought-provoking that here, less than 10 years after the financial crisis, we are already dampening and removing some of the sharpening measures that were made to avoid similar situations in the future. The problems we see in the draft law are the same as those mentioned by the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, i.e. that the definition of these PIE companies is narrowed to the minimum requirements of the directive, i.e. to listed companies, credit institutions and insurance companies. This means, of course, that large state limited companies, DONG, DSB, as far as I can tell, are not included, but perhaps even more important is the fact that the large family-owned companies, foundation-owned companies that we have in Denmark, are also not covered by these stricter rules. And it is companies that, if we compare them with listed companies in Sweden or other countries, play a particular role in relation to our business and financial infrastructure, and these are companies that have thousands of employees, as has also been mentioned. Whether they are on the Stock Exchange or not on the Stock Exchange makes a certain difference, of course, but we do not think that the difference justifies not having to make the extended requirements for revision. The second point of criticism with which we agree is therefore the possibility of dispensing with the 70-percent limit for so-called other advice, which applies one of the derogations laid down in the directive. We do not think it is appropriate to dispense with that rule, because it may cast doubt on the independence of the auditor, and it was precisely some of the things in some of the major business scandals that we saw in the run-up to the financial crisis, certainly more in other countries than in Denmark, which were a co-vending factor. Then it was said that it may be that some of the big companies cannot find advice. Well then, at least we have a monopoly problem in Denmark, if it is the case that large companies cannot seek advice from enough accountant companies to avoid this limit. As I mentioned in my question, the weakening of controls is justified by the fact that the burden on business is being lightened, and it can always be sensible if there is silly regulation or stupid burdens. The thing is, I'm having a hard time seeing the savings that business gets out of this. In other words, as far as I can see from the PIE requirements, this amounts to about 18.2 million. kr. per year for all the companies covered. I think that it is a very, very small amount, given the enormous risk, if this goes wrong, as we saw in the financial crisis and in previous financial crises, and not even necessarily in a financial crisis, but in the context of a larger company getting into trouble. It is not just society that can sit back with some costs, as Danske Lawyers point out. After all, it is companies and investors who may be left with some costs because there has not been a proper audit. So overall, we do not think that the proposed bill in the form in which it is presented takes into account the original purpose of this legislative review, namely to strengthen confidence in the auditor, in other words to ensure that the auditor is the public's trust representative, and to ensure greater independence for the auditor. In fact, we believe that it can weaken confidence in the auditor, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal in the form in which it is now in place. We know that a number of amendments are being worked on which may be able to correct the problems, and we look forward to getting the minister on the floor and discussing some of these things, and then we have to look at it in committee. However, as it stands now, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331135314	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331135328	Thank you. I have the impression that there is a rather thorough preparatory work behind this bill. A Commission of Auditors has been set up, which has looked at the legislation, and we think this seems quite solid. The Liberal Alliance considers it sensible for us in Denmark to implement at least regulations and directives coming from the European Union. It is a good principle that we do not put our companies at a disadvantage in competition with foreign companies. And that's why we're also positive about this bill. Several rapporteurs have asked whether the financial crisis has been forgotten. And there I think it is important to maintain that it is not just this bill that is aimed at and made with the budget law in mind. There is, of course, a tsunami of regulations that have been rolled over the financial sector since the financial crisis and which aim to avoid a new financial crisis. Even if it is going to work that way, I can personally be a little sceptical about, because much of the legislation we look rolled out is such a one size fits all-regulation that everything else just makes room for fewer business models and which might make whole sectors more vulnerable if there is a new crisis. And they can be hard to predict. Then it is the case that those PIE companies that will be under this new audit regime will be subject to increased administrative burdens. And that's one of the things that's gonna happen. on financial institutions, credit institutions, etc. In view of the debate we have just had, for example. We must, of course, be aware of the fact that we are making legislation here too, which brings about the kind of new costs that will be passed on to consumers at some point in time. One could then hope that, when things happen, we will not get out in the same way as we have seen in recent times, and that all responsibility will be waived when we are involved in adopting legislation which increases costs that are passed on to consumers. However, since this is a regulation coming from the European Union, we think it is reasonable that we should implement the minimum. And that's why we're positive about this bill. However, this is a major legislative proposal, which is why there will probably be a number of questions in committee as well. There are also a few things that we would like to ask about and that we may be a little sceptical about, among other things. some of the very, very large fines laid down in the bill. But that is what we are doing in committee, which we look forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331135700	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move forward, and that is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331135705	The debate has already produced a lot of good arguments for us to be capable and concrete in the work of the committee. I am very much in line with the Socialist rapporteur in particular, who actually framed the whole issue very well in the first place, and that is why all I want to do is to say that we must find a way, when implementing, to ensure that there is still a strong and healthy and confidence-building audit culture in Denmark. I do not necessarily think so, even though it may require more of Danish companies than it does from our neighbouring countries. In fact, it may be a strength that you know that Denmark can do something and value the bar when it comes to trading with Denmark. So we must be careful not always to make it a bad thing that something needs to be implemented where Denmark takes the lead and does not put the bar as low as possible. Otherwise, I will say nothing more than that we expect to get into depth with some of the questions that Danske Lawyers also ask in the hearing answers. And then it is perhaps most important for us that an audit company cannot be so involved in a company that it almost screams to heaven, because there is something here that can and often has gone wrong in history. So we'll look at it in the law work, and then we'll see if we'll be there in the end. The alternative is to include as much as we can in EU cooperation, because it is certainly a guiding force for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331135845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Ida Auken now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331135858	After all, we have been very concerned about the issues raised in this proposal, and we on the side of the Radicals are very much in line with those who have previously mentioned their concerns in relation to the proposal. We think it is important to ensure the independence of the auditor, and therefore we would like to look at the options that will be available to exploit now in relation to the 70-percent limit. We also believe that too many companies of public interest, the PIE companies, have only listed companies, financial companies and insurance companies. We think that, when there is a different business structure in Denmark, we should of course look at whether not also family-owned, co-owned and fund-owned companies can be of a nature where they are of public interest and therefore need to have a particularly thorough audit. So we will look into this in the committee work. I think it is very, very important to remember the story when we stand here today. As the Social Democrat rapporteur pointed out, it is almost eight years ago that the biggest financial crisis broke out, and when you look back in history, you just think that everyone was asleep per hour: where was the public, where were the investors, where were the banks? It was as if everyone just systematically let it fall apart completely. There is a very interesting film at the moment for those who may not have quite mastered the source of the financial crisis, called "The Big Short', which can be very interesting to see if you have forgotten how reason can be totally put out of play when bubbles build up. That's why we're making these tights, that's why we're making these security measures that have to make sure that it doesn't happen again. We therefore have a responsibility there, and it is not about bothering anyone or making bureaucracy or other things; it is about ensuring society as a whole and that everyone is fulfilling their responsibilities; not least in those times when there is not necessarily a crisis, we should be aware of that responsibility, not least in here at Christiansborg. So the Radical Left will wait and see if in committee we can change some of these things and get more clarity about it before we can give a commitment to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331140118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the line of rapporteurs, and that is Mr. Jonas Dahl, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331140125	Thank you. From the SF's point of view, we are also critically waiting for this particular bill. We are, in fact, quite prepared to implement the EU directives with regard to the amendments contained in the auditor directive, but we must also say that when the government comes up with a reform of what is called, in a rather popular word, over-implementation of the EU rules, we may also think that we are moving on the verge of what is wise, as the Socialist and the radical rapporteur mentioned, when we are on the verge of a crisis that can be said both to give those who forgot to carry out the necessary review a great responsibility, but, of course, also those who started to cheat at first, if we are now to deal with what actually happened. From the SF's point of view, I would also like to say that there may well be some good points in simplifying the regulatory structure, as we are proposing, but it should not be the case that, simply because we simplify, the controls and audits that have to be carried out are, in the end, undermined, not least in terms of ensuring that the employees protected by it and the companies that actually have an interest in a thorough audit are not cheated within the company or that the company is not able to cheat other companies or the public authorities. That is why we are critical of the SF and I would also like to say that we are highly critical of the further process. We also have a number of questions that several others have already announced. Nor does it indicate that the government immediately has a majority in favour of the bill, so we are looking forward to the political discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331140300	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs, and that is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331140310	After all, the financial crisis was created for many, many different reasons, starting with the suitcases and cardboard boxes carried out in September 2008 from Lehman Brothers and into the streets of New York City. After all, the post-2008 game revealed that the political system had failed in some areas, that there were greedy people, that there were systems that did not work, but it also revealed that the control mechanisms did not work well enough. The European Union has worked on this and some concrete proposals have been put forward. The government has then taken up the ball in relation to implementing the directive. We agree with the government that the way in which it is to be implemented in Denmark means that it is very close to the directive and that it is done in an appropriate way in relation to the industry. There is also a reasonable balance and social considerations are also taken into account. The other side of the coin is, of course, and we will also pay close attention to this in the further part of the treatment, that there must be proper compliance, that there must be proper control of companies, and that there must also be balanced social considerations. That is true, as for example. The Socialist rapporteur pointed out that when one works as an auditor in a company and one's main task is to audit the accounts, there must also be some control and take into account that if large parts of the revenue comes from the advisory effort, there must be sensible, waterproof Scots between how to advise and how to review. This is one of the areas that we will be following very closely during the committee's proceedings, so that sensible safety and sound accountability are taken into account here. But as a starting point, the Conservative People's Party can support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331140509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331140523	Thank you for your comments on the Bill amending the Audit Act. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is, of course, implementing the new EU rules in the area of auditing, which were adopted in 2014. As the draft law also shows, the government is very concerned that in implementing new EU rules, emphasis is being placed on avoiding unnecessary and particularly burdensome over-implementation, while, of course, we must continue to take into account essential protection concerns. Secondly, it is a key priority for the government that we also get rid of the existing unnecessary over-implementation in the area of auditing, over-implementation, which means bureaucracy, and which makes Danish companies more difficult in relation to their European competitors and in relation to the international competition they are thus part of. Finally, emphasis has also been placed on simplifying the regulatory structure in this area and improving the efficiency of the quality control of auditors. It has not filled so much in today's debate, but it is one of the things we can discuss later. The new EU rules lead to significantly higher costs, and they will be even higher if we choose to go further than what has been proposed in the text of the directive. One example of this is the definition of public-interest companies, known as PIEs, which lead to stricter requirements for the audit. It is also some of the things that have filled part of the debate we have had here today. The definition of PIE companies in question goes significantly beyond what is provided for by EU rules, primarily by involving a large number of unquoted companies, and that is what is usually the case today. With the new EU requirements for the PIE audit, it will be much more burdensome to be a PIE business, and therefore I also believe that there are many, and above all serious, reasons why we have now chosen to narrow the definition in question to the minimum requirements of the directive alone. We thus equate Danish companies in this area with others. companies in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Then there has also been a discussion based on part of the consultation responses, and political reactions in relation to municipalities, municipal communities and regions, which have also been subject to the rules for the revision of the PIE companies. Here too, I think it is important that we find the right balance to ensure that there is a high level of confidence in the revision of municipalities, municipal communities and regions, without imposing unnecessary burdens on them. Therefore, I believe that they should be deleted from the PIE definition, instead of being covered by a notice in which certain selected requirements for the audit of PIE companies are put into effect. The small municipal communities are exempted from this decree, as it would also be disproportionate for the small municipal communities to be subject to the requirements of the Order. But it is clear that I do not yet have the final announcement. I also understand that there will be parties that will be very interested in discussing this in committee. Secondly, we also deal with the Danish special rules on how companies should put together their audit committees. Today, the audit committees may consist only of the members of the board of directors of the companies. We are changing this so that in future companies will have a freer framework to put together the Audit Committee and to ensure that the committee has the right competences. In addition, we will also simplify the organisation of the auditor area, we will streamline the auditor supervision and make enforcement more proportionate. Among other things: the quality control of the auditors will change, so that in future we will spend far more on or have a much greater focus on the auditors who cannot find a way to comply with the rules, while leaving the others alone, that is to say the auditors who comply with the rules in force. There is also a change in the sanctioning system so that minor first-time infringements are more lightly sanctioned. On the other hand, there must be stricter sanctions for grosser or repeated infringements, so that there is now a greater degree of proportionality. Overall, the proposal is estimated to provide administrative facilities amounting to 14.3 million. kr. a year, but there will also be a conversion cost of approx. 42 million kr. So it is clear that it will cost something in the short run to introduce the new rules, but the government therefore takes the view that for us it is essential that we ensure sound implementation. I have taken note of the comments made by a large number of parties, which is why, of course, I also want to enter into a political dialogue with the parties that have expressed their wish, and I have sensed that the vast majority of them would like to do so. I also note, of course, that there are parties that have concerns about the legislative proposal as it stands now, and since the Left is in the situation that we have 34 mandates, it is clear that we will have to have a dialogue if the legislative proposal is to be adopted, and that is, after all, the ambition, because it is crucial that we get these rules to apply. I would like to put forward a good political dialogue in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141113	Thank you very much, Minister. We have a few brief comments to make. First, Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141118	I would like to start by thanking the Minister and acknowledging that he has listened to our desire to arrive at a workable result in a closer dialogue. But my question is now on something quite different. For one of the concerns of the Socialists is that with the 70-percent limit. Tax advice is therefore the most important advisory service to companies today, and if Denmark is to take advantage of the option to allow tax advice, it must be expected that the Minister will then also be able to reply to whether permitted tax advice is covered by the 70-percent limit. Thus, allowed tax consultancy must count as a non-audit service, where the fee to the auditor may not exceed 70%. of the audit fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141210	Well, I think that the long question would deserve a written answer, and I will give it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141219	Okay, I'm sorry if it was too far for the Minister, and of course I'll send it in writing. But I have another question which is perhaps a little easier: can the Minister confirm that an accountant of a company of public interest, i.e. a PIE company cannot at the same time represent the company as a party representative vis-à-vis the tax authorities if a case has been brought where auditors would normally be advisors, since the rules of the Regulation on the absolute prohibition of tax advice take precedence over the Danish draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141256	Well, I believe that to be quite sure that I am replying perfectly correctly I will choose to reply in writing to this also relatively technical question. And I know we will come back to that too, because I would like to sign up to the Social Democrats and say that, of course, during a political debate, I will also discuss with the Social Democrats the concerns raised by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141315	The next brief remark is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141318	Thank you. I will then try to ask some questions to which I can get an oral answer, because I just can't write all the written questions I have other things to spend my time on, I think. But I would like to ask the Minister something quite different, and it is with regard to the municipal communities that the Minister also mentioned in his evaluation of the debate we have had here today. I am, of course, very pleased with the concessions that have been made by the government to the effect that these rules are put in place on minimum amounts and on balance sheet and so on. in relation to the different companies that might get into this situation. I would like to ask you about this with the announcement that the Minister outlined will be made in connection with the creation of the law. Will the Minister also ensure that there will be no ministerial authority in that bill, so that not subsequently under future governments and under new ministers etc. Has a ministerial authority been delegated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141419	In other words, the challenge of an announcement is that it can be changed all the time by the minister in office at any time, and it will probably be difficult to set up a very clear system which makes it impossible to do so in this area. But I do believe that the way to reflect on this is both by answering questions, as I am doing now orally, but it is also, of course, by making known how and how it is going to be. As I see it, I am going to do so because what concerns several of the consultation answers that have come and that I also sense that the Danish People's Party is concerned is that if you now choose, as has been proposed in the bill, to let some of these here, you can say that the elements of the PIE companies apply to those companies that are above the limit laid down in the bill, how many rules will apply, and under what conditions are they going to apply? It is clear that it should not of course be laid down in a notice, but it must be clarified before the draft law is adopted. It goes without saying or to the extent that it can be reached almost there. It is clear that I will not just give carte blanche to see afterwards, without it being known to the Danish Parliament, an announcement as to how and how the content of that announcement should be. I also understand that concern very well. I would have said that myself if I were in opposition. Now I do not consider the Danish People's Party as such to be in opposition to the government, but it is clear that when you are not in government, you have the clear position that you have to pay close attention to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141550-2	I am grateful for the very long answer, but I must admit that I did not fully realize what I was really getting in response. Will the Minister ensure that there is no future increased ministerial power in the law which we are now discussing in relation to some of these changes? I am in favour of an announcement, but what I am asking is whether there is any specific ministerial power latent somewhere in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141617	Well, I was actually trying to answer; I'm sorry it got a little long. I said, and I would like to make that clear, that announcements, and Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from Dansk Folkeparti also well, can be changed by a minister all the time. But it is clear that if it is important for the Danish People's Party to ensure that there are no ministerial powers that can be changed in the future, then we must discuss it. What I understood is the concern of the Danish People's Party is that a minister is now given the opportunity to make this announcement, which extends the definition outlined in the bill. That, I say, must of course be clear to everyone. I am not suggesting that there should be ten other major powers that should be rolled out. So if that is the concern, then I can at least say that I am aware of it myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141700	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141703	I would really like to hear the Minister's comment on the debate that has taken place in this Chamber in the past on the special Danish business structure. So, is it not true in relation to a number of the large companies that we have in Denmark, which are family-owned and fund-owned, that if you compare with some of the countries with which the minister compared them, they will be listed because that is more the rule in those countries and that, with this definition, we will actually get fewer of those that you could call key companies in Denmark, which will be subject to these requirements than in the countries with which the minister himself stood and compared us?
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141746	I think, however, that the rapporteur of the Liberal Group, Mr von der Vring, is right. Torsten Schack Pedersen, in many ways very educationally explained this in an answer to a question that Mrs Ida Auken asked about the Danish business structure, where he said: yes, there is a different business structure in Denmark than in some of the countries with which we compare, but that does not mean that we cannot be interested in making a sensible implementation of the rules that apply. And I think it is important to make it clear, because, as in the debate here, there was a call for whether we can at all be sure that these companies will be run sensibly at all. And there I would like to say that there are already a large number of requirements that apply today in relation to the review of these companies. It is not the case that Wild West rules apply. I think the questioner is very well aware of this. So I do not think we are going to find ourselves in a situation where the companies that are not PIE companies can put Danish society under pressure in relation to a potential future financial crisis, which I certainly heard that Mr. Pelle Dragsted was very concerned. I certainly do not think that the definition that has now been set out is anything to be feared at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141901	I think that is perhaps a rather brave statement by the Minister, bearing in mind the developments we have seen. I totally agree that it's not wild west modes, but it doesn't have to be until things can go wrong. However, I do not think that the answer given to Mrs Ida Auken by the rapporteur of the Left was so clear. I still lack recognition of what was in my question, namely that because our business structure is different from that of the countries mentioned by the Minister himself, the way we implement in relation to the way they implement will mean that fewer of our key companies are subject to these PIE requirements than in the countries with which the Minister compared us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331141946	So, I do not think I can make it much clearer today than to say that I am also very concerned, as I said in my speech, that there are reasonable conditions of competition for companies which are in Denmark and which are not covered by the PIE definition. And it is clear that in some respects we have a different business structure from that of some of the other countries, but that is why they are still competing away with companies that are in the countries I mentioned. I am not going to go into the details of the industrial structure that the questioner here would like to see. I can say that I am completely in line with this, because in terms of competition I think it is the right thing to do, and I do not think we should have such a broad definition as we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331142029	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160331142043	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 1 April 2016, at 1 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
