ParlaMint-DK_20160513090005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Hasteforskning nr. F 41 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160513090037	The Minister of Finance isn't here. That's not good. We shall postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513090211	The sitting is resumed. The meeting starts at 9:00 a.m. 9 a.m. today, may I say to the Minister for Finance, and not at 9 a.m. 10:00. The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The proposal goes straight to the second (last) reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513090256	The debate is open. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513090310	The Socialists have put forward a proposal requiring the government to return the priority contribution to the municipalities. I am surprised when the government has already said that all funds from the re-prioritisation contribution in the context of the economic negotiations and the negotiations on the Finance Act will be returned to the municipalities for 2017 to priority areas. The Socialists probably want us to say that the re-prioritisation contribution must be returned to the municipalities for all the years to come, so that we are already laying down the financial framework for 2018 and beyond. But we can't. This is not how we organise economic policy. We will make the priorities for 2018 and forward as usual in the economic negotiations and financial negotiations in those years, because we have a principle that the economic priorities are made for one year at a time, because the Finance Act is 1 year, and the agreements on the local and regional economies are 1 year. This was the case under the previous government, and it is, of course, the case now, because we need to be able to prioritize from year to year if there are unforeseen additional costs and because we need to be able to control expenditure and react when the key conditions of the economy change. The need to manage expenditure right now is quite obvious. We can see that the public economy is being challenged in a number of areas. We are in an economic situation where falling oil prices give the state less revenue from oil and gas extraction in the North Sea than expected. In September of last year, when we decided on the room for manoeuvre for fiscal policy towards 2020, it amounted to about 15 billion. kr. Since then, structural revenue from the North Sea has been downgraded by 5 billion. kr. That is why we have now had to reduce the economic scope for the next four years to approx. 10 billion kr. Overall, the structural revenues from the North Sea since 2013, i.e. in just 3 years, have fallen by just under 20 billion. kr. This represents almost half of the annual expenditure on primary school. Thus, the situation is quite different from that of the previous government. It would therefore also be irresponsible, in this light, to follow the Socialists' proposal to establish the municipal framework for 2018 and beyond now. In addition to a reduced economic space, the influx of asylum puts considerable pressure on public finances. For 2016 alone, 10.9 billion has been budgeted. kr. to the area of asylum and integration. If the influx remains at a high level in the coming years, the pressure on expenditure will increase by 2020. This increases the demands for strict priorities in expenditure policy in the future. That is why the whole public sector needs to contribute to the freeing up of resources so that we can give priority to citizens' welfare, so that we can spend the money where they do the most good for the Danes. The whole of the public sector must be part of a strict priority for resources, and all parts of the public sector must contribute to the smarter use of resources. For this reason, the government has considered it necessary and appropriate to extend the re-priority contribution to the municipalities. In the state we have had a re-priority contribution for many years. We have now spread this to all major state operating areas, including education and culture. Thus, a long-standing principle in force in the state has been extended to the municipalities. The re-prioritisation contribution is, in fact, a tool that supports the efficient use of resources. At the same time, it strengthens the ability to prioritise across sectors, so that money is spent where it is most beneficial. This means that we will have the opportunity to prioritise important areas such as health, the elderly and security. The government wants a strong public sector. In 2016, 1.9 billion. kr. of the re-prioritised contribution in 2016 returned to the municipalities for priority actions in the bourgeois service areas. Here comes the promise of 1 billion. kr. to a dignified care for the elderly with the 2016 Finance Act. Overall, therefore, the services of the municipalities have been increased by 0.5 billion. kr. From 2015 to 2016. The municipalities thus have more money for service in 2016, than they had in 2015. In addition, developments are under the recent Social Democratic-led governments, where the municipal service framework was reduced by several laps. From 2012 to 2015, municipalities could spend 3 billion. kr. less on service. That is why it is also strange that the Socialists are creating a picture of the government's desire for massive cuts in the public sector. On the contrary, with the re-priority contribution, the government wants to create the conditions for us to give priority to core welfare. The Prime Minister has also stated that the money from the re-priority contribution cannot go to tax cuts. The government therefore wants the money from the re-priority contribution to be spent on citizens' services and for the money to be spent where the need is greatest in the year in question. The re-priority contribution shall apply to the municipalities under one. It will therefore be up to each municipality to determine how the re-priority contribution is to be implemented locally. Of course, we should not sit here at Christiansborg and decide how the municipalities realise the necessary efficiency improvements. After all, some municipalities are expected to have better opportunities to adjust service costs than others and thus also better opportunities to realise a larger share of a re-priority contribution. It is based on dialogue between municipalities and local political priorities in each municipality. In this way, it is ensured that each municipality can organise the overall effort on the basis of what creates the greatest value locally. I think it is realistic that the municipalities can streamline by 1%. Every year? Yeah, I mean that. I do not buy the premise that there can be no more efficiency in the municipalities without harming the core welfare. I fully recognise that the municipalities are in the process of improving efficiency. The municipalities themselves also report that since 2007 they have gradually increased the efficiency of their work, so that in many municipalities the efficiency of their work is increased by 2%. of expenditure per year. The municipalities themselves have previously indicated that since 2011 they have increased the efficiency of between 2.4 and 3 billion. kr. a year. They have among other things: more efficient for about 1 billion. kr. alone by coordinating purchases and about 1 billion. kr. by digitisation in recent years. I cannot therefore understand the view that, if we are to streamline and achieve lower costs in the municipalities, it is by dismissing people. I am, of course, impressed as a finance minister by the efforts made by the municipalities all over the country to improve efficiency. I am quite sure that we can find many examples in the municipal landscape in municipalities that find new ways of improving efficiency. It is precisely the effort made by the municipalities that says that the municipal hinterland at least believes that we can create a better and more efficient public sector in the future. Then you ask me whether a re-priority contribution automatically leads to poorer care for the elderly and primary schools, then the answer is clear: no, I do not think so. The municipalities have a service framework of just under 240 billion. kr., and it should be possible to spend some of the money better than we do today, among other things. by learning from each other, through digitisation, better procurement, by putting more tasks into competition, etc. All parts of the public sector, state, regions and municipalities must continue to be considerably more efficient, because at a time of tight economic conditions, we must continue to get more out of the taxpayers' crowns. This is a prerequisite for us also to be able to afford a strong welfare society in the future. We cannot live with a public sector cast in concrete. In the motion for a resolution, the Socialists are calling for the government to call for broad negotiations on the reversal of the re-prioritisation contribution. Frankly, I do not understand what the Socialists are calling for. The precise implementation of the funds will, of course, take place in the economic negotiations with the municipalities this summer and in the financial negotiations in the autumn. So, if the parties in the red bloc want to influence the distribution of money, they will have to participate constructively in the financial legislation negotiations in the autumn, and I would very much like to encourage them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091402	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091407	Thank you. I understand that the Minister for Finance is not enthusiastic that the Danish Parliament is interfering in the government's economic policy. But now we have to assume that the government needs a majority to support it. I would like to ask quite specifically about the Financial Law Agreement concluded by the government. The Finance Act states that the parties to the agreement note that Dansk Folkeparti makes a report contribution to the committee's examination of draft legislation on amended expenditure ceilings. I should just like to ask the Minister for Finance to explain here what is contained in the contribution made by the Danish People's Party to the report and which we must assume is also recognised by the parties to the financial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091455	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091456	I am sorry that I did not bring that contribution, so unfortunately I cannot be briefed on it. But Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has it, so why don't you read it to us so we can hear what it says?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091509	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091511	I can reveal that what is contained in the report's contribution is identical to what we are proposing in the motion for a resolution. Therefore, I just need to know whether the Minister of Finance recognises that the Danish People's Party has expressed its wish to return all funds from the re-prioritisation contribution to citizens' close welfare in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091534	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091535	What's unusual about this case, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Benny Engelbrecht, after all, is that the Socialists will now determine economic policy for years to come. This is, of course, a completely new principle, as I explained in my speech, because we have 1-year financial laws and we have 1-year agreements on the economy of the municipalities. That is why I think that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht owes it to explain why it is the re-priority contribution and the local economy that needs to be determined. Why can the Socialists not determine Denmark's economy for the next 3, 5, 7, 9 years? It would be interesting if it could be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091615	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091619	The Minister for Finance says in his speech that there is not much room for manoeuvre, and it is a bit funny when we stand here the day after the government announces that money will be spent on buying 27 bombers that other countries have bought at 1 billion. kr. This is the first time that the government has decided not to indicate where the money is to come from. So we have a situation in which the government yesterday said that there is money for fighter aircraft, without indicating where the funding should come from, and the next day it is standing in the Chamber saying that there is no money for welfare. I think it says a lot about the priorities of the government. However, what I would like to ask the Minister for Finance is: can the Minister for Finance confirm that the re-prioritisation contribution is only part of the discussions and challenges that the municipalities face in order to make the economy work together next year? You can, for example. well imagine the situation that has been agreed here in the Parliamentary Chamber that the re-prioritisation contribution will be carried back one hundred percent in 2017. However, if, at the same time, the municipalities are not fully compensated for increasing expenditure on refugees or are fully compensated for the increasing number of elderly, the municipalities will still be in a situation where cuts need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091730	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091731	We have annual economic negotiations with the municipalities, and there we all have problems on the table. This is where we find a solution to the issues and establish the framework for the economy of the municipalities for the coming year. It's standard procedure. If I may say something about the purchase of aircraft, I do not know whether the rapporteur has noticed that it says that it must be kept within the framework of defence. So it's not like we're under any illusions about the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091802	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091803	Yes, and no one believes that it can be kept within the limits of the defense. However, I would like to ask my question again: can the Minister not confirm that even if the re-priority contribution is returned one hundred percent, it will still be the case that the municipalities will have to cut back if the municipalities are not fully compensated for the increasing costs of the municipalities to help people fleeing war, or if, for example, the municipalities are not fully compensated? is not being compensated for the rising costs that result from the fact that there are more elderly people in this country, the increasing number of elderly people, that is, the demographic trait?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091840	Everything is part of the economic negotiations we have with the municipalities, and that is why these things will be up and up and up and over and over again discussed and negotiated, and then we will find a solution to the economy for the coming year. This has been the case in the past and will be the case this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091859	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513091902	Thank you. The minister, like the municipal hinterland, is earning money to ensure that there is such a form of back-up. That is how I understood it in terms of the economic policy that the government is putting forward here. I don't really understand. In other words, the Minister cannot have overheard that the President of the KL has called the re-priority contribution for the cruel solution. And the solution that has now been made with the Danish People's Party for this year calls KL's president the evil solution. And his justification is in both cases that it leads to cuts in welfare. As far as the matter of the hinterland is concerned, 74 cities were protesting yesterday against exactly the re-priority contribution that the Minister is so pleased about. But my question is: the minister says that the municipalities can save easily without firing people. Can the Minister explain what this is all about? The economic policy supported by the Minister himself since 2009 has resulted in 30,000 fewer public employees. The re-prioritization contribution corresponds to approx. 6,000 social and health assistant positions. How are the municipalities supposed to save without firing people? Can the Minister give us some more specific guidance on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092020	I don't know how I'm gonna answer Mr. Simpson's question. Finn Sørensen on that, because I think that hypocrisy drives down the walls when Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen speaks. During the period when Mr. Finn Sørensen's party was a parliamentary basis for the Social Democratic Government, 3 billion were taken. kr. from the municipalities. Will Mr. Finn Sørensen then give the concession today that during that period, Mr. Finn Sørensen's party was parliamentary basis for the previous government, was the service and welfare in the municipalities inferior?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092057	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092058	Will the Minister confirm that the Minister's own party, together with all other parties in the Folketing, except the Enhedslisten in the Finance Committee, voted in favour of the documents which led to the cuts we are talking about? Would the Minister please confirm that the Enhedslisten has not once voted on any of the cuts the Minister is talking about, but the Minister and the Minister's party do? I asked: how should the municipalities manage to save without sacking people, when at the same time the Minister lists all the increased costs incurred by the municipalities? Can't we get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092139	Well, there are piles of reports that show where efficiency is possible. The other day I saw that the municipality's own magazine had published that it could be made more efficient by digitising and that it could give over a few billion kroner. These are the roads we want you to go. Of course, we have to collect the winnings that are. The same applies to road administration, property management, etc. etc. where there are winnings to retrieve. But back to the second question, sir. After all, Finn Sørensen's party was the parliamentary basis of the previous government, and that is why it is clear that Mr. Finn Sørensen put his back on saving in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092228	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092230	Thank you. That is not what the resolution is about at all. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that a Finance Act is for one year? If there is a majority in favour of this resolution, there is a majority in the House who says that the re-prioritisation contribution must last for four years. So it is not just in the context of the financial law negotiations that we are discussing this. Then there is a majority in the parliament that cements that the re-priority contribution should be there in the years to come. That is what the Social Democrats are proposing here with the motion for a resolution. The principle of a re-priority contribution is cemented in the years to come, and this is done with a majority of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092312	That is a very good explanation of what is here, and if I were to put on the positive glasses, I could, of course, sign for the very, very fine proposals of the Socialists. Because then we agree on a very fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092331	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092333	Now the Minister for Finance was asked whether he could remember the contribution from the Danish People's Party, and I would not ask the Minister to do so, but I can at least inform the Minister about the contribution and then I think the Minister will remember that in that report contribution it was very clear that an agreement had to be made in 2016 that the money should be returned to the municipalities where it is doing the most good. So you had to make a redistribution. Can the Minister not confirm this and that it is in relation to the budget law being one-year rather than one-year, and that this is also in the report's contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092403	That is what I can confirm has been what we have been working for, namely that we will direct the money to where it is most needed. And then I would like to add again, as I did earlier, that the myth that has been cut down on the municipalities in 2016 doesn't hold. The municipalities got 500 million. kr. more, and therefore, the service framework in 2016 is larger than in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092438	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092442	I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for now signing up to the Socialists, because if, through a motion for a resolution, you ask to be called to negotiations to discuss how the re-prioritisation contribution should be used, then there must be recognition of the fact that a re-prioritisation contribution is there, that it is a useful tool and that you therefore want to enter into a discussion on how the funds should be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092514	Yes, you can choose to wear the positive glasses. My experience with the Socialists just tells me that their positive will lies in a small place. But, of course, we must take note of the points of light that are there, and that is why I would like to sign for it and now I hope not, sir. Benny Engelbrecht is about to leave the Chamber and I hope we can get an answer to these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092540	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092544	Thank you. The Minister of Finance got in touch with Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's question made it rather unorthodox that we are interested in the country's economy in the years to come, but wouldn't the Minister of Finance just confirm that the Budget Act operates with the financial years 2017, 2018 and 2019? So there is no wonder that the proposal here gives us an interest in those very years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092605	No, but the budget law operates with some ceilings. It is for me to see a rather different discussion from the one we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092616	If sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen would like another comment, it is good to press in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092620	Thank you. The Minister for Finance said in connection with the debate with Mr. Finn Sørensen, that hypocrisy drove down the walls. I cannot help thinking about the criticism that is being levelled at the Social Democratic Party today to ask the question. If we are to put an end to hypocrisy, that criticism must be directed just as much at the Danish People's Party, since they have written exactly the same proposal into the Finance Minister's own Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092649	When I speak of hypocrisy, it is because, under the previous government, the amount of money had been cut directly by the municipalities. What we have been criticised for in 2016 is that we have added 500 million to the municipalities. kr. more to the service framework. So this is a completely different discussion, and that is why I think it is at the limit of hypocrisy to be able to take good care that now we want to ensure it. Now that you have come into opposition, it is a different policy from that which you followed when you were in government. That is, in fact, just what I am trying to say in all silence here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092735	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092739	Thank you, Minister. I took note of the Minister's statement and I would like to confirm that I heard correctly that the re-priority contribution over the whole period up to 2019 will not be used for tax reliefs. Has that been correctly heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092756	We have said that it will not be used for tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092802	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092803	I have just not heard it so clearly that it applied throughout the period up to 2019, but that is what the Minister of Finance now confirms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092809	Yes, in view of the fact that public finances are under severe pressure, with poor income and pressure from the large number of asylum seekers arriving in the country, we need the re-prioritisation contribution to something other than tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092830	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092833	Yes, and it is precisely the realization that the municipalities are under pressure that it is such a bad idea to go out and take money out of their boxes just before they are about to put their budgets. Because that is what we are doing with the re-priority contribution. The Minister of Finance can talk about everything he wants, about efficiency and what you can do better, but what we hear from out there is about older people who don't get their sheets changed, older people who have incontinence and who lie there, yes, I may not be allowed to use those words here, but I think people can imagine it themselves. We hear about educators and educators who stand alone with 20 children. We hear about people with disabilities who are deprived of the help that allows them to live a life that is just about reasonable. It is the reality in the municipalities, and it is not easier for the Ministry of Finance to come and stick their hands in the box just before the municipalities have to lay their budgets and pick up billions. After all, this is what is being done with the re-prioritisation contribution during a period when there will be more elderly people who need care and where there is also a task of integrating new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513092937	What is special about the circumstances of the municipalities in Denmark is that the economic agreements protect the municipalities from the impact of economic conditions on the economy. When we have made an economic agreement, it is the money that the municipalities have, whether we have bad economic conditions or not. Those who take the impact of the economy are the state. We cannot go anywhere and say: now we have lost 20 billion. kr. We should like to see less taxes on North Sea oil, which we would like to see compensated by someone. Well, we can't. However, in the case of the municipalities, we are completely shielding them from the economic conditions that exist. And that is particularly interesting when there are bad economic conditions. I think that is the strength of the system we have. We make some agreements with the municipalities, they can then dispose of within the agreements, and that is a powerful advantage. Pelle Dragsted had to take a trip over the Sound, because then he will see how the business cycle is going through, how much money the Swedish municipalities have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093055	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go. It's called sir.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093056	If it were the case that it was the state that had taken the battles after the financial crisis and the municipalities did not, then it is just a little strange that it is out in the municipalities that have closed 30,000 posts in the bourgeois welfare, while the state has increased its number of employees. I fully agree with the party colleague of the Minister for Finance, Mr. Martin Damm, who has been out saying that the municipalities have so far taken their share of the drag. When the Minister of Finance talks about the need for local authorities to be more efficient, it sounds like they've never thought of it before. They have, sir. Minister of Finance. There's been a cut-in to the bone in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093130	Well, that's where the water partes. Well, sir. Pelle Dragsted would like a public sector cast in concrete. It just has to be the way it is. Nothing can be done. We have reached the optimum limit on how to use taxpayers' money. That account simply cannot be downloaded anymore. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, that if Mr. Pelle Dragsted was out in real life, so he had to find that there is great pressure everywhere. I would like to see the company that could proudly say that we cannot make more efficient; we cannot use resources anymore; we cannot produce so that it will be cheaper for consumers to buy our goods. That company would have died within 10 years, and it is the same thing for us as a country. Surely we must always ensure that we spend taxpayers' money in the best way possible. I'm sorry to hear about that, sir. Pelle Dragsted, that we can't make eye contact because Mr. Martin Lidegaard is blocking our dialogue, but now we can see each other again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093237	Thank you, Minister. There are no more comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. It's sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093300	Thank you. This is an interesting proposal which has come from the Social Democratic Party here. When you look at it that way, you can sympathize with it. But then you have to look at what this is really about. Because what is this really about? After all, the social democracy has been saying for a long time that the re-priority contribution is killing the municipalities. It is not possible to re-prioritize 1%, and the children and the elderly will suffer, and that is what we are hearing in this Chamber today. But what is the aim of the motion for a resolution? There you really want to see a majority in parliament, that is to say a majority decision, saying that the re-priority contribution will be in 2017, 2018 and 2019, and you will also have an impact on how the money is to be spent. But can we table a motion for a resolution on how to use the money and, by means of a parliamentary resolution, try to cement a principle to a government and then go out and say that it is a bad principle? You can't do that. Either you are against a re-prioritisation contribution or you are in favour of a re-prioritisation contribution. It is quite fair to have political views on it. What surprises us in the Danish People's Party is that the opposition, the red block, does not see the opportunity to show solidarity with the municipalities that are having difficulty. After all, we have said that we believe that the re-prioritisation contribution can help to make a different distribution. What we are experiencing at the moment is that we actually have 40 municipalities in Denmark which now meet the demand to be particularly disadvantaged municipalities. What we are seeing is that there are provincial municipalities which find it very difficult to provide what is the basic core welfare that should be given in a municipality. We really want to see what KL has not succeeded in doing. Because there should be another distribution key. There are municipalities where you have the good tax base, where you have the good economy, where you have the educational institutions, where you have the infrastructure, where you have the settlement. We shall be delighted about this. We must welcome the municipalities where things are going well. It would be nice if the municipalities where things are going well also showed a little solidarity with the municipalities where things are a little more difficult. For what is happening at the moment when things are going well in, among other things. Copenhagen, when it goes well in Aalborg? Then house prices rise. So, what's going on? Then it is especially those who are on transfer income that are pushed out not because you have a political opinion about it, but it is among other things. housing prices that do it. They then end up in the provincial municipalities, and they find it very difficult to carry out the task. There we believe that the re-priority contribution is a tool to say that we will then make the redistribution that the municipalities cannot find out. We'll help with that here in the Folketing. But we can then understand that red blocs do not show that solidarity. However, we do not think that the municipalities that are experiencing difficult economic difficulties should be given the opportunity to carry out the social tasks that they have out there. It is also surprising that one is so much opposed to a re-prioritisation contribution. That is no longer the case because it is not something the Minister of Finance has found. It comes from the previous government. For that is when the special social assistance pool was created, where a change of priority contribution was made. All municipalities had to pay in, after which it was decided under the previous government to say that now all 98 municipalities have paid in, and then the money has to go to the large urban communities. That is what was done under the previous government. So the re-priority contribution is not something new that has been invented. This is something the previous government has invented. The Danish People's Party is positive about showing solidarity with the municipalities that are having a difficult time, and that is why we are of course in favour of a re-priority contribution. However, for us it is extremely important to see how things are going, both in connection with the municipal negotiations and, of course, also in connection with the financial law negotiations for 2017, if it turns out that everything is not being used in connection with the municipal agreement. So we do not want to adopt a model in terms of what it will look like in the years ahead. That, then, is what the Social Democrats want, and that is fair enough. But we find it strange that for so long we have been working towards a re-priority contribution, and then we are here today, and then we are trying to cement the principle by a majority of the people. It seems strange, and we will certainly not be voting in favour of cementing the principle if we do not see that it has a value. Because it can go as KL would like. KL wants the money to come in, and then they have to go back to crown. But then this is the most ridiculous project that has ever been. If the municipalities first have to save the money and then have them back crown by crown, then it completely doesn't matter. But if you can make a solidarity solution in which the municipalities that are experiencing economic difficulties benefit from the re-priority contribution, then I hope that the red block can see that this is a sensible way of getting a more equal Denmark. We are a small country, and yet we are experiencing great inequality in what opportunities the municipalities have to provide the daily core welfare that we are fortunately concerned about across parties. There we see the re-priority contribution as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093803	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093808	Frankly, I doubt what it is really necessary for the Danish People's Party to be happy. First of all, in the context of the Finance Act, we propose that no re-priority contribution be made at all. The Danish People's Party was given the opportunity to vote in favour of the amendment which would ensure that the re-priority contribution did not exist. You wouldn't do that. Now we come up with a motion for a resolution, as words to the contrary is what the Danish People's Party has proposed in the context of financial law negotiations, and then it is rejected because it will be cementing the re-priority contribution. - Sir... René Christensen then not just explain to me: what are we going to do in the opposition of the Social Democrats to ensure that that money does not go from welfare? We want to help, you just have to tell us how to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093900	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093902	Actually, we don't need the help. Things are really going very well on their own. It is the case that the Danish People's Party and the government agree completely that in 2016 this money will go back to the municipalities where they do the best good. This has also cemented a principle that in 2016 a redistribution will be made. This must, of course, be done in cooperation with the KL, no doubt about it. KL is the voice of the municipalities, and we eagerly await that. Then I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is not opposed to the re-priority contribution. We are in favour of the re-priority contribution in 2016 because we believe that it can help to achieve a more equal Denmark. So we certainly don't need that help. But we would like to see how this change of priority contribution works and whether KL would like to play on the agenda that the government and the Danish People's Party now agree on, namely to have a more equal Denmark, where you can also see that the provincial municipalities have the opportunity to carry out social tasks as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093953	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513093955	We're not talking about 2016, we're talking about 2017, 2018 and 2019 in this proposal. Let's make this clear. I will now make a Sicilian offer to Mr. René Christensen: I am willing here and now to table an amendment to this resolution which completely abolishes the re-priority contribution. Will the Danish People's Party vote for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094018	No, we will not, because we want a more equal Denmark. We dare to show solidarity with the municipalities that are having a difficult time. I understand from the Social Democratic Party that it is quite indifferent to the fact that there are 40 municipalities that have so little economy that they have a real difficulty in lifting the basic welfare out there. These are the stories you sit here and talk about. But there are too many children in the day institutions, the elderly do not get proper care, but do you want to do something about it? No, you kind of think it's really good, because then you could say it's not going well. I would just like to say that, in order to create economic growth in the municipalities, a bourgeois government needed to get more money for the municipality of Denmark. That is what has happened in 2016 in contrast to what happened under the former Social Democrat-led government, and that is frightening. But I do think that in many areas, in relation to what is also said by the Social Democrats, we have at least a consensual rhetoric, and we would like to work together on that. But you have to do it in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094115	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094120	I therefore think that what is being said from the parliamentary platform right now is at the limit of the deeply manipulative. Reprioritisation contributions have nothing to do with compensatory reform, and we have had the opportunity down here in Parliament to discuss equalisation between municipalities this week, because the Danish People's Party wants to abolish the special social subsidy pool, with over 400 million. kr. a year goes to municipalities where there are lots of vulnerable people; a pool which was made in connection with the adjustment of the compensatory reform which was in 2012, where many municipalities that have suffered more money than average gave to poorer municipalities; and that is fair; but some of the municipalities were also larger cities where there were many exposed, and therefore the special social subsidy pool was created as a patch on the wound. That pool will now be abolished by the Danish People's Party, while there is no majority to create a new pool. So it's deeply manipulative to say that this is about equalisation. This is about the re-priority contribution, as Martin Damm, President of the National Association of Municipalities, calls it. It's about taking from the municipalities, so that the bourgeois parties, including the Danish People's Party, can sit and distribute and some of this money, for example. can go to tax breaks or other things. That's what's behind this, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094231	I can say with complete calm in my voice that this money is not being used for tax relief, and then you can say it a hundred times from this side of the House, but it is not going to happen. There is a clear agreement on that. But then I would like to say on the second point: how does the Enhedslisten want to remedy the inequality that exists in the municipalities? How do you want to provide funding for the 40 municipalities that have a real difficulty in lifting the day-to-day running, care for the elderly, the day-to-day institution area, the primary school area? It can be seen that, in some of the municipalities, less than 50 per cent of the students receive a qualification after the 9th and 10th classes. Do they not need a boost, and is it not also the economy that drives it? Where, then, is it that Enhedslisten is setting in and saying: we want to get some funding to help the municipalities get through better, in other words help them get a better tax base, help them that their population is better equipped to compete in the labour market? These are the things that are interesting, namely how we can lift these municipalities out. Here we see an opportunity to create funding for it. What's the answer from Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094330	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094334	Then I would like to invite Mr. René Christensen at a meeting at my office next week, where I think we should talk about compensation reform. The Enhedslisten's attitude to a compensatory reform is that municipalities in Denmark, wherever they are, regardless of their economic circumstances, must have the same economic opportunities to offer the same service to citizens. This means that richer municipalities have to pay to poorer municipalities. I'd like to invite Mr. René Christensen for a cup of coffee in my office next week, where we can talk about whether we can agree to create the framework for a compensatory reform, and then we can see if we can make a majority out of the government. Then we can get printed whether Dansk Folkeparti means what Dansk Folkeparti is saying up here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094419	Thanks for the invitation, I'd like to start by saying. But what is also the question is what the Enhedslisten is actually voting for the resolution here, because what lies in this resolution is precisely to cement that we must continue with a re-prioritisation contribution, but there is nowhere in this resolution how the money could be used. That is why the Danish People's Party says that a Finance Act is 1 year old, and we believe and believe that KL together with the government can also create a sensible distribution key in relation to getting a more equal Denmark. But the challenge is that if it is not possible, we are in a new situation. If this proposal goes through, it has been established that in the years ahead, with a majority in parliament, you must have a re-priority contribution, and it must go back to the municipalities, but not how. After all, we can risk getting a pool that is just as antisocial as the previous pool that the previous government created, where they took from the provincial municipalities and gave to the big cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094516	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094519	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur knows very well where Enhedslisten will provide funding so that we can raise the financial framework for the municipalities, so that they will actually have an opportunity to correct just a little bit the many years of cuts for which the Danish People's Party is jointly responsible and which have resulted in the disappearance of 30.000 people, no, 30,000 posts, not necessarily 30,000 people in the municipalities in the welfare sector. After all, the Danish People's Party is jointly responsible for this; they have voted in favour of every agreement that has had that consequence. And the rapporteur is well aware that, for example, the Enhedslisten. in relation to refugees, we have proposed that, in order to fulfil this task, we should postpone the tax reductions that the government and its parliamentary basis are so pleased with. But I would like to ask what the Danish People's Party really wants. So what the Danish People's Party wants is to feed the dog with its own tail: first you take 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities it corresponds to approx. 6,000 social and health assistants who could otherwise be used for care for the elderly, which is much needed, that is to say to get some more hands there and then send them back again. But there are some municipalities that have to pay, and what kind of municipalities are these? Is that the 58 other municipalities? For the rapporteur says that 40 municipalities are in need, so the rapporteur has a name for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094644	The fact is that I am actually very pleased that Finn Sørensen is talking about refugees, because that is also what I see in the motion for a resolution, which is why the Social Democrats are actually putting forward this motion for a resolution. This is very clear, and it is because, if you one day come to power, you have the opportunity to finance that expenditure too, because then you can take in this money and then you can use it for refugee expenditure. So we have now come to the point that it costs 12 billion. kr. A year ago, it was the expenditure on refugees. And there we have a completely different idea of how to solve it, and that is that they are not going to the municipalities, but are going to be in state centres. So there is already a very high level of expenditure. So in relation to who has to pay: yes, it is true that if you make a redistribution, there are municipalities that are going to pay, and it is of course the municipalities that have the absolute best economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094728	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094730	The rapporteur himself is helping to provide an argument for a crazy plan. The cost of the refugees alone tells us that the municipalities cannot possibly cope with the task within the financial framework that exists today. It can't be done. And it just says something about the scale of the task. And if you place it in the state, it is the same, because billions of people are costing it anyway, and that money must be found, and they must be found with those who have already received so much. But back to the question: Does the Danish People's Party's proposal mean that there are 40 named municipalities and we would like them to have the names of the people who need more money and that the 58 others need less money? And what will the consequences be for the welfare of the 58 municipalities that have to pay if it is 58 municipalities? But the Danish People's Party must know something about this. Can we not find out something concrete?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094820	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094822	I would like to say, so that it will not blunder in the wind, that to say in relation to the 12 billion. kr. out in the municipalities that it will be the same if it is under state auspices, just not right. I would just like to say to put it in relief that a medium-sized provincial municipality with 60,000-70,000 inhabitants is drifting for less than 4 billion. kr. a year. Then a few hundred thousand refugees will come to Denmark for a number of years, and that will then cost 12 billion. kr. And that is, of course, because there is a system where you get into the municipalities right away and you have free access to teeth and everything else. There is no doubt that the task is really, really difficult for the municipalities to carry out, and that is why it has to be removed from the municipalities and, of course, it has to be under state control. And it will be far, far cheaper because you do not have free access to all the welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094904	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513094909	I agree with my colleague, Mr President. Rune Lund in that it is somewhat manipulation to mix the re-priority contribution and a compensatory reform together. The Danish People's Party, as the largest party in the blue bloc, has had every opportunity to propose a compensatory reform. And a compensation reform for those who do not know it is that you permanently change the distribution of block subsidies between municipalities. Then they have the opportunity to plan ahead. What you do with the re-priority contribution is that you take the money from the municipalities first, and then they have to save everyone, including the poor municipalities, and then you come back after the budgets have been laid down with a gift bag. It would be wiser if you wanted what the Danish People's Party wants and, as Enhedslisten wants, we also want a redistribution in favour of the poorer municipalities to make a compensatory reform. So let's make a compensatory reform, then, Mr. President. René Christensen. Let us cancel the re-priority contribution, and then let us make a socially balanced compensatory reform, where some of the municipalities up north of Copenhagen will pay, among other things. to that municipality, sir. René Christensen comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095009	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095011	Now the Danish People's Party has unfortunately seen how Enhedslisten does equalisation, and this was done with the social pool. And what was done there? In North Jutland there are 11 or 12 municipalities, as far as I remember, you had to pay about 40 million. kr. 10 went to Aalborg, and the rest went out of Nordjylland Region and to the other major cities in Denmark. Well, that's not what we want. The Danish People's Party wants to look at how we get a more equal Denmark. And it is therefore paradoxical that today we have 40 municipalities in Denmark, which meet the requirements as particularly disadvantaged municipalities, and it is therefore municipalities that have difficult economic conditions. Then it is true, if you go in and look at it, that the big cities of course also have many socially exposed areas we fully acknowledge that but they also have the economy to lift it. And that is when it was said to those who have the worst economy, i.e. the provincial municipalities, that they had to pay for the large municipalities. They are going to pee over at the Finance Minister and say: why is there a ceiling on our construction budgets, why can we not spend all the money we have, because we find it disturbing that we cannot be allowed to spend the money we have on the book? These were the ones that were given money in the compensatory reform that Enhedslisten proposed at the time and, as such, got through. We're lucky we're gonna get rid of that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095121	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095123	This is simply a history forgery, because the rapporteur mentions only a small part of the compensatory reform, namely the special social pool. It was a major compensatory reform. It meant that municipalities such as Gentofte and the rest of the municipalities of North Zealand, which are really rich, paid to a lot of outskirts municipalities. It was a major compensatory reform. The pool the rapporteur is talking about was just a small part of it. However, can the rapporteur not just answer the question which both Mr Tugendhat and Mr Tugendhat have raised? Rune Lund and I have asked: can we not agree to sit down together and make a compensatory reform, which has the distribution profile that the rapporteur is asking for, and then put that re-priority contribution into the grave once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095204	There is no doubt that real compensatory reform is far preferable, but of course we must have the right aim. And I just want to say that we've seen the results before. And that was a wrong aim. For who was it that came to pay? It was one of those things. Vordingborg, it was Samsø that many of the municipalities were paid for making social initiatives in the municipalities that had the best economy. And that was because the number of citizens who had social challenges was looked at alone, and that is, of course, greater in the larger cities. So I guess we just don't agree with the Enhedslisten. We would like a more equal Denmark where all municipalities have the opportunity to provide a good social service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095244	Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, Social Democrat, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095249	Thank you. With all due respect, sir. René Christensen is an absurd theater. There were 74 cities on the street yesterday who demonstrated against what we are discussing today, namely that we are taking money from all municipalities over the next four years. The Danish People's Party has then negotiated that the money in the first place may just be returned. We don't really know where they're gonna end up, but some money's gonna come in there, and that's fine. We are proposing here today, and we have a majority if you want it: let us remove the re-priority contribution. If the Danish People's Party does not want to participate, then the Social Democratic Party says okay, but let us at least say that we are obliging the government to return to the municipalities in the next three years. The Danish People's Party says no. That can't be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095338	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095340	Let us remember that we need to know what kind of proposal we actually have here, and that is not a proposal to remove the re-priority contribution. The Social Democratic Party has put forward a proposal to cement the re-priority contribution up to 2019. Let us remember what we are talking about here in Parliament, and it is a motion for a resolution, B 89, which is about cementing that there is a re-prioritisation contribution up to 2019. That is what the Social Democrats have said, and so there is no mention of it in a word at all, that we are against it. You are in favour of the re-priority contribution, and you are in favour of it continuing in 2017, 2018 and 2019, and that is what you are seeking to get a majority of the people for. We must deal with what has been said in the Chamber and not discuss anything that is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095422	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095423	It must be hard to have such bad arguments on hand that one has to stand and twist the truth. - Sir... René Christensen confirm that just a few minutes ago he was offered an offer to shake hands on an amendment which states that we are completely removing the re-priority contribution? - Sir... René Christensen confirm, sir. Benny Engelbrecht said a few minutes ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095448	One gets a little confused, so what does Social Democracy think? With this resolution, the Social Democratic Party wants to ensure that the municipalities are guaranteed that financial resources corresponding to the re-priority contribution for the municipalities on the expenditure ceilings for 2017, 2018 and 2019 are returned to the municipalities in the context of the forthcoming finance laws and municipal agreements, and that is what we are discussing today. A motion for a resolution has been tabled on the need to establish that there is a change of priority, and that is fair enough, and I could also hear from the Minister for Finance that he was so pleased that the Social Democrats had now also agreed on this agenda, which states that we must have a re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095527	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095531	Thank you. Well, there's no reason for Mr. Knox to... René Christensen must be confused here. 'Cause that's sir. René Christensen himself, who creates the confusion. Social democracy has proposed that we take the re-priority contribution and take it back to the municipalities. Mr. René Christensen does not participate, and he believes that it cements the re-priority contribution. Then the Social Democratic Party says: if Mr. René Christensen is sorry to cement the re-priority contribution, you will get here a parliamentary majority that can abolish it; right now, with a majority in the Folketing, we can put an end to the re-priority contribution that creates massive savings in the municipalities. Will Mr. René Christensen does not tell me how, on the one hand, we can argue that we will not vote in favour of this resolution because we believe that it cements the re-priority contribution, but, on the other hand, we will not accept the offer to abolish the re-priority contribution. It's hypocrisy and confusion and cheating on those listeners who might be into this idea that you're not going to give a clear answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095629	I just want to point out that you don't say "you." Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095631	There's nothing to be confused here, so it doesn't work that way. We stand in the Parliamentary Chamber in Parliament and when you make motions for resolutions, it is probably because you mean it politically. And now I understand that the Social Democrats have found out that this resolution is actually a bad one, because you can see that it has now been discovered that you want a re-prioritisation contribution. Because if you came to power one day, it might be nice to have 2.4 billion. kr. A year ago, and so on, we could also be involved in financing refugee expenditure and so on. That is what has been discovered, and it is of course also a pity, and then you have to try to correct it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. However, when a resolution has been tabled, that is, of course, what we are discussing. And this resolution supports the re-priority contribution, and you want to cement it until 2019, and you thought you could get away with it. You can't do that, and now you're trying to get out of it with all kinds of bends, and that's fair enough. Because it's not fun to be discovered when you're doing something you've been thundering against for months.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095731	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095732	The motion for a resolution we are discussing today, which is the Social Democratic Party, is, after all, word for second identical to what the Danish People's Party has written into the Finance Act. So the criticism of it today is completely baroque. What the Social Democratic Party has proposed is that we deliver the re-priority contribution back to the municipalities. We cannot get a majority in favour of this, and now we are trying to get the Danish People's Party to join us in ensuring that the re-priority contribution is cancelled. The fact that the Danish People's Party will not be a part of this merely proves to the entire country that the Danish People's Party does not care about welfare and that it backs a government that downgrades the welfare of the municipalities in order to afford tax cuts in the autumn. That is what we are witnessing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095811	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095813	Why don't we stick to the truth? For the government and the Danish People's Party, one hundred percent agree that this money cannot be used for tax relief. We are 100% agreed that they have to go back to the municipalities, and we are 100% agreed that KL, which represents the municipalities, must, of course, be aware of how the redistribution can take place. For these are the people who represent the municipalities, and all that is in place, and we are quite calm. Then we just want to have a more equal Denmark in pure solidarity, and I understand that you don't want it on the red side. We do not want solidarity, we do not want the municipalities that have a good economy to help lift the municipalities that are having a bit of difficulty. We do not want that, and that is fair enough, and that is a political priority, and that is just where we have a deep disagreement. But now stick to the motion for a resolution that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095900	You don't use direct charges. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, even though the mood is a little loud. Here you go, sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513095909	Thank you very much. I could not help but concentrate on the rapporteur's reference to 40 municipalities which had financial difficulties. Now it is probably too much to ask for all 40 to be mentioned, but nevertheless this whole performance is baroque in the sense that you will not support the whole idea of the re-priority contribution. Nor will it support the fact that it is still there, but then you will be talking about the 40 municipalities you want to support. What is happening at the moment in relation to the re-priority contribution is that the rapporteur's own municipality must save 170 jobs. If you look over to Lolland Municipality, they have to save 124 jobs. If you look to Sønderborg Municipality, it's 182 positions. This is the way it is all around the municipalities, which may have the greatest economic challenges, and which are, of course, the municipalities where you have to take action, if you want to have a country in balance, a country that is connected. So, when the rapporteur is aware of this and is aware of how massive savings are being made, what is really being done by supporting the re-prioritisation contribution? What exactly is the Danish People's Party doing for the municipalities that are now going to save a lot of their employees away?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100015	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100016	What is most important for the Danish People's Party is that we hope and I hope, because unfortunately we are not sitting at the table when the Minister of Finance and the KL are sitting here negotiating that there is the solidarity, also on the part of the KL's board, that you want to return the money to the municipalities where they are doing best. It is therefore the agreement made by the government with the Danish People's Party on the re-priority contribution for 2016, namely that the municipalities where things are going well and we should welcome this will help to show solidarity and hold hands under the municipalities where things are going badly, and give them the opportunity to also provide a decent welfare, allow them to raise the level of primary school and elsewhere in order to get out of the situation that you are among the 40 municipalities that are difficult to find. Then it is true that all municipalities have to go out and save 1%. The disadvantaged municipality must also save 1% where it enters into the negotiations. We do so with our eyes wide open. All you have to do is remember that they're 99 percent. Well, then it's back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100109	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100111	It is a rewarding hope and, as you know, the hope is bright green. But now that the rapporteur is standing and rejecting this proposal and sticking to the re-priority contribution, while talking about the fact that the Danish People's Party will do something to balance the whole country, it nevertheless sounds a little disloyal when you think about how many savings really have to be set in motion around the municipalities. So can we not just be told by the Danish People's Party what kind of municipalities are the 40 municipalities? Or can you just get a fair overview of where it is they can expect them not to go out and make these massive savings on their welfare around the country, where they already struggle very hard to make things together?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100147	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100151	I do not have the list of municipalities with me, but you can get that information if you contact the Ministry of the Interior. Then it's all clear. That's 40 municipalities. I'm not going to mention them from here. Then I would like to say to Mr. Kaare Dybvad that the proposal we are discussing here today is not, therefore, about removing any of the re-priority contribution. On the contrary, it is actually about cementing the re-priority contribution up to 2019. So it is a very failed debate that is running here and now. In other words, it is not possible to put forward a proposal on the need for a re-prioritisation contribution, but on which all the rhetoric is that it is opposed. It seems incredibly strange that one can use the rhetoric of a proposal one has put forward oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100228	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100231	In short, I would like to ask Mr. René Christensen, about Mr. René Christensen and thus Dansk Folkeparti want to retain the priority contribution until 2019 or want to abolish it until 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100247	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100249	What is incredibly important for us now is to see how this is going to go in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution in the first municipal negotiations. We really hope that KL has put on the hat that says that we want a more equal Denmark. And if it turns out that this is going to happen, then I am convinced that we will also be positive about a re-prioritisation contribution in the future, in other words if there are positive effects. However, this must of course depend on what will happen in the KL negotiations, also in the context of the Finance Act for 2017. That is also why we are not voting in favour of the proposal here today. For the proposal here today is, of course, about the Social Democracy saying that now a majority in parliament must oblige the government to ensure that the re-prioritisation contribution should we very much want to see how it goes, and the Finance Act is for one year at a time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100343	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100346	Thank you for that clear answer. Then I would like to ask: Does the Danish People's Party wish to take part in discussions on a compensatory reform in the municipalities, for example. Was more than Enhedslisten participating?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100405	After all, it is not the case that we do not want to participate in a compensatory reform with the Enhedslisten. There are just examples that it has been tried before, and it was not with a very good result. We would like to see a compensatory reform that gave a more equal Denmark. I just have to say that when you talk to KL, who represents the municipalities, and we think it is very important that KL also becomes part of it, they didn't want it, they fought against it in KL. KL has had an incredibly difficult time entering into the dialogue on a new compensatory reform in relation to the fact that you represent all 98 municipalities. That's where we see this option at 1 per cent. to get a more equal Denmark, and we will try that in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100441	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100454	It is of course surprising that it is the former social democratic ministers and the former government that are going to strike a blow for the economy of the municipalities today. In view of the fact that the three proposers were part of an SR government which, during its lifetime, cut the municipalities by as much as 3 billion. kr. From 2012 to 2015. With this motion for a resolution, the proposers will oblige the government to return the priority contribution to the municipalities, despite the fact that the government has already given the municipalities 500 million. kr. more in 2016 and has issued a guarantee that the total re-prioritised contribution in 2017 will be returned to the municipalities. In addition, the government has already established that the re-prioritisation contribution for 2018 and 2019 will be in the public system. However, the additional funds and the guarantee issued by the government are obviously not enough for the Socialists. They are demanding that the government should now decide how the money will be spent in 2, 3 and 4 years' time. But it is a somewhat unrealistic and illogical way of conducting politics if you want to have just the slightest chance of prioritising public funds. With the re-prioritisation contribution, we will have just a tool that will provide a slightly more flexible public sector. We saw it with the re-priority contribution in 2016, when 1.9 billion was returned. kr. for priority actions in the field of citizens' services. So it is also no secret that the Left believes that it must be possible for the municipalities to free up 1%. of their total funding of just over 240 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the motion for a resolution has been drafted, it must also be understood that the proposers agree with the approach that they now wish to take in the negotiations on how to use the funds, which we can channel and prioritise to where the money is most beneficial to the Danes year after year. After all, we have seen that the municipalities have realised great efficiency potentials within e.g. digitalisation, coordinated procurement, efficient administration, and that is the development that the municipalities must continue with. So, with the Socialist resolution, we will actually deprive ourselves of the opportunity to give priority to what is most important in the coming years. We do not want that. We want to maintain flexibility, and that is why we do not believe that a solution that the Socialists are proposing here is appropriate. So, on this basis, the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100731	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100735	Thank you. It's just such a more fundamental discussion. I actually thought that the Left was in favour of municipal autonomy. That is certainly something we often hear in this Chamber. But now we are going to have a major intervention in municipal self-government, eliminating 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities and sit in here for some dark night hour with Dansk Folkeparti and find out how to play Santa Claus for the municipalities' own money. This is a serious interference in municipal self-government. Can the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100811	I think it is perfectly reasonable to involve the municipalities in how we prioritise the overall financial resources that we have at our disposal for welfare in Denmark, and it is perfectly reasonable to make some demands on the municipalities to prioritise and find some savings, and as mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I also think that this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100830	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100832	Well in other contexts where Enhedslisten comes up with some proposal that we think might be a good idea to implement, which concerns the municipalities, for example. We are told that no, we must not do that; it is an interference in local self-government. But this is a procedure, so it's gonna do something. I mean, you remove 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities, and then you sit with crossed arms and look over at KL's chairman and say: Yes, if you're nice, it may be that you can get some of the money back to some of what you think, and if you're not nice, we manage it together with the Danish People's Party in connection with the Finance Act. It is just a demonstration of power, and it is certainly an intervention in municipal self-government. The rapporteur must admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100918	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513100919	In fact, I think it is very important that the Folketing should deal with the financial framework and how we give priority to the economy in relation to the welfare tasks that exist, and there will of course be a strong intervention in municipal self-government if we went in and dictated where exactly we have to find these resources. But what we see in the municipalities is that you have different examples of where you could just get extra funds through efficiency or digitalisation, or what you have taken of initiatives, and this shows that local self-government works very well in relation to the fact that it is local in each municipality that you find out how best to act within the financial framework that is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101004	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101033	This resolution has been tabled by the Socialists and is certainly good in two ways. It is well understood that if it were to be adopted in its present form and without an amendment, it would be a less evil than if it were not adopted, understood in the sense that that is what Mr. Martin Damm, Mayor of the Left in Kalundborg, President of the National Association of Municipalities, has called the evil solution. Sir. Martin Damm operates with three solutions. There is the cruel solution, it is the government's favourite solution, where the money is taken from the municipalities, 2.4 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done. tax relief. That is the position that the Minister for Finance expressed until the beginning of March was the government's position. When the Minister for Finance was asked in this Chamber what the re-priority contribution would be, it should go to priority interventions, including tax cuts. The government has then been pressured to say that for 2017 and only for 2017 the re-prioritisation contribution should be returned to the municipalities in full. This must be done either in the context of the economic negotiations that are currently taking place or in the context of the Financial Law Agreement. It's nice to have the money taken back. That's the evil solution. It is a good thing that the money is being returned, but it is still a bad solution because the re-priority contribution remains, and the municipalities are putting budgets in the autumn and are perhaps fortunate enough to get some money back in December in the context of the financial law negotiations. What the economy of the individual municipalities is is very uncertain, but it also means, of course, that it is quite impossible for the municipalities to manage, as well as to plan welfare. Then there is the good solution. This is the only right solution in the eyes of Enhedslisten. This is the total abolition of the re-prioritisation contribution. There is the gruesome solution: the government's solution is the evil solution, where the re-priority contribution remains, but the money is returned to the municipalities, and then there is the good solution where we scrap the re-priority contribution completely, and that is the solution that Enhedslisten is in favour of. This proposal also exhibits a little hypocrisy in the Danish People's Party. Because when you make a report contribution to the Finance Act, in which you say that you want to take the money back to the municipalities, and then a motion for a resolution is tabled in the Folketing, which contains exactly that element, it is a little strange to see the Danish People's Party twisting in order not to vote for it. Of course, the debate has also exhibited this. I would say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that if an amendment is not tabled which changes the nature of the proposal to completely scrap the re-priority contribution, we will not be able to vote in favour of it and then we will abstain, and that is due to two things. We believe it is very important that the five parties in the opposition, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF, the Social Democrats and the Radicals are united in not signalling in any way whatsoever that the re-priority contribution should not be scrapped. The re-priority contribution must be scrapped one hundred percent. The second argument is of a more tactical nature. One thing is that the government has said that the municipalities should have the money back in 2017, but we do not think it is wise at this stage to signal anything other than that the re-priority contribution should be completely removed, completely scrapped, in 2018 and onwards. We can see that there are some good intentions behind the proposal, but we cannot support the proposal unless an amendment is tabled which means that the re-priority contribution will be completely scrapped, a line that we will also see that the opposition will be united in the question debate which will follow this item on today's agenda in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101427	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101434	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund on behalf of the rapporteur. Will Mr. Rune Lund does not agree with me that, for the citizens and for the municipalities, it does not matter how to ensure that the money comes to them, as long as the money comes forward. That is the first question. 2: Will Mr. Rune Lund could accept an amendment to this motion for a resolution, which states: Parliament requires the government to abolish the re-priority contribution in the municipalities for the years 2017-2019? In any case, we intend to table this as an amendment. 3: Recognizes Mr. Rune Lund, that it is actually the Danish People's Party that, with their attitude towards this, helps cement the re-priority contribution in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101526	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101530	First of all, it does not matter how the money gets back to the municipalities, and that is why we are choosing the good solution where we completely abolish the re-priority contribution. The evil solution, where the state first takes the money and somehow distributes it back to the municipalities, is not good either. So I would say that in this way it does not matter how to give the money back to the municipalities, if that is what was the content of the question. The second is that we are, of course, in favour of abolishing the re-priority contribution altogether. It has been Enhedslisten's line from the very beginning. If this proposal is changed to include it, we will of course vote in favour of it, as we do, for example. On 16 March, in connection with the urgent question following the municipal summit of the National Association of Municipalities on 10 and 11 March, the Parliamentary Assembly, together with all the other parties in the opposition, submitted a proposal for adoption which would lead to the scrapping of the re-priority contribution. Then I can confirm that if it were that the DF had the position on the re-priority contribution that it had to be completely scrapped, there would be a majority bypassing the government in terms of scraping the re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101629	Sir. Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101632	Thank you, first of all, for your statement on the amendment. I'm glad. I have to say that I do not agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that it doesn't matter whether the money comes back to the municipalities or not. We have established that it is definitive that the Danish People's Party wants this re-prioritisation contribution, and then the next best thing we can do is agree completely that the re-prioritisation contribution should not be there at all, that we at least ensure that the money comes back. Then I'll have to ask sir. Rune Lund, if not Mr. Rune Lund acknowledges that what we propose in the motion for a resolution is exactly the same as the Danish People's Party has written in its contribution to the budget and budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101720	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101724	I can confirm the last thing: what the Socialists are putting forward here is what the Danish People's Party has proposed word for word. I can also confirm that it is the second best solution to bring the money back to the municipalities when the re-priority contribution cannot be abolished. But I would also like to say again, at the risk of repeating myself, that there are the three solutions. There is the cruel solution where the re-priority contribution exists and all the money is spent on tax cuts and everything else that the government wants. Then there is the evil solution where it exists, but where the money is being returned. And then there is the good solution, which completely abolishes the re-priority contribution. Of course, this will be the second best solution, but I do not think it is wise in the current situation to take the pressure to abolish the re-priority contribution altogether. So there is at least one consideration there, which I also think is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101808	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101816	When Mr. Rune Lund looks beyond the municipal budgets today and the municipal expenditure on specific projects, Mr. Rune Lund saw that all municipal expenditure today is always more appropriate and better than what would otherwise be possible to use the money for in a financial law debate with the parties of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101840	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101843	Let me reply in this way: it is the case that there is a lot of efficiency in the municipalities today. It's good, and it's important. We must constantly think about how we spend the money best possible. Are there things we have done for many years that we may not have to do because we have to do something else? Can we do things wiserly? Can we invest in welfare technologies and thus provide better services to citizens while freeing resources so that we can improve the citizen-centred service elsewhere? There are plenty of things that you can do all the time, and the municipalities do that every day. What is the problem here is that you take the money from the municipalities. You downgrade the service in the municipalities, and then you put the money into the state, which then has to sit and share it out as from a sugar bowl. It is democratically problematic, it is regulatoryly problematic, because first the municipalities fire people, and then they may be so lucky that they can hire some again. This does not make sense in terms of creating the commitment and ownership to efficiency and to a more well-run public sector that employees have if they see that the money that is made more efficient is actually spent on the welfare of the municipality where they work. So there are many problems with the re-priority contribution, but it is not about Enhedslisten or anyone else not having to go in to make things better, smarter and more innovative than you do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513101958	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102001	But now it is the case that the municipalities receive a quarter of their money for public spending from the state block grants. That money is not someone that the municipalities have. These are some that come from the state, and therefore the question is: if you have the very principle that the municipalities must always keep all the money, regardless of what they spend it on, and if the money from all the efficiency efforts in the municipalities, which can certainly be done, must always stay out in the municipalities, then it must be because it is believed that the municipalities always spend the money better and more efficiently than they could otherwise have been spent, if the state had not given such a block grant to the municipalities and the money had instead been granted by the parties of the Folketing through financial law negotiations. From where does the mechanism come that municipalities are always better at spending money and that money should not be moved between the different sectors, for example. from the municipalities via the block grant to the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102057	I believe that we are dealing here with a political disagreement about the fact that the Enhedslisten believes that more funds are needed to raise the welfare of the municipalities, while the Liberal Alliance believes that the welfare of the municipalities should be cut. I can give you an example where I believe that money can be transferred from the state to the municipalities while at the same time spending the money sensibly by taking the money in the right places, but also by giving it for the right purposes. It's the purchase of fighter planes that were announced yesterday. The government wants to buy 27 fighter planes. They're gonna cost 1 billion. kr. The piece, that's what Norway bought them for. That's 27 billion. kr. It is estimated that the operating costs of these fighters over the next 20-30 years will be between 80 and 100 billion. kr. There I say, and there says Enhedslisten: let us spend that money on welfare instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102142	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102144	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur and, for that matter, the Enhedslisten for being clear: the re-prioritisation contribution will not be granted. It's fair to say it; it's pure lines. Then, in relation to the motion for a resolution here from the Social Democratic Party, as the rapporteur has also prepared for the debate, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that it says: "With this resolution the Social Democratic Party wants to ensure that the municipalities are guaranteed that financial resources corresponding to the re-priority contribution from the municipalities on the expenditure ceilings for 2017, 2018 and 2019 are returned to the municipalities in the context of the financial laws and municipal agreements of the coming years. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this is the resolution for which all of us who are here today have prepared us? Then it is true that it has now been discovered that what you wanted was to cement it, and you then come up with an amendment and something here that no one has seen yet. This has been presented orally by the rapporteur from the Socialist Group. But can the rapporteur not confirm that the proposal we are debating here today cements the re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102244	I can confirm that the reason why Enhedslisten can only vote for or against, i.e. yellow, in relation to how the proposal has been drawn up in its present form, is precisely that we do not think it is wise to announce now that the evil solution should apply until 2019. Our line is that the re-priority contribution must be completely scrapped, especially in view of the many welfare demonstrations yesterday across the country, in 74 cities where 20,000 people demonstrated and demanded that the re-priority contribution be completely scrapped. This is the pressure and pressure that must be put on the government, but also on the National Association of Municipalities, which we believe should say that as long as the re-priority contribution is not completely scrapped, they do believe that this is reason enough not to approve an agreement with the government. The Danish People's Party must then be responsible for the many promises of welfare made by the Danish People's Party in June last year by the Danish People's Party against an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities. Then we'll see how it goes. Then we will have a golden opportunity to answer to the Danish People's Party for the many golden promises of welfare made last June.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102349	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102351	We would very much like to achieve that. Fortunately, a new government and the Danish People's Party as a support party have succeeded in seeing for the first time in many years that there is economic growth in the municipalities. So we'd be happy to be on target for that. However, I am pleased that the rapporteur is as puzzled as we are in the Danish People's Party that yesterday there were demonstrations in 74 cities, where also senior social democrats were involved and said that we were against the re-prioritisation contribution, and that we are standing here the next day with a resolution that will help cement the re-prioritisation contribution until 2019. I also acknowledge, of course, that the Enhedslisten is firmly committed to their political position: that you do not want a re-prioritisation contribution. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot, of course, support the Social Democrats' proposal, which is precisely about cementing it. I think that's a clean cut. We disagree with the Enhedslisten, but I think it is very good that politicians are in line with what they say. In any case, the Social Democrats do not do that in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102444	But then I can ask the questioner from the Danish People's Party: If the Danish People's Party is so firm in terms of the re-priority contribution, then the questioner from the Danish People's Party can now guarantee... There is no possibility of replying back, but then I would say that if one is so much against the re-priority contribution in this Chamber, it would be sensible to be just as much against it on the National Association's board of 17 people, who have to decide on the overall agreement at some point. And there I hope that there is consistency between what the Danish People's Party means in this Chamber and what the Danish People's Party means on the board of the municipalities' association.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102524	It is true that the rapporteur cannot give an answer, so it has to be done another time. Thank you. Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democrat, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102539	Thank you. You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. I would say that what is being said in this Chamber today is quite crazy. After all, it is as if the Danish People's Party does not hear at all what is being said or what amendment we have tabled. I mean, it's crazy. We are tabling an amendment aimed at abolishing the re-prioritisation contribution altogether. If the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party have not realised this, let me just repeat that the position of the Social Democratic Party is that the re-priority contribution must be removed because it is completely unreasonable and leads to cuts in the municipalities. Instead of pretending not to hear it, one should look at the consequence it has in the municipalities. That is our wish and our ambition. And the fact that we are trying to pursue the second best solution becomes that we are in favour of the re-prioritisation contribution; that is nonsense and nonsense. I just have to say, if I am to ask a question, that there we have the difference between Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party, which in this case is basically seeking to get the money out into the municipalities, but where, if everyone agreed with Enhedslisten, we would find ourselves in another difficult situation. But this is bullshit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102654	I can confirm that I have understood that the position of the Socialists is that the re-priority contribution must be completely scrapped. In fact, in the view of the Enhedslisten on this proposal, we do so in the same way as we did when we had the urgent question on 16 March here in Parliament. The government and Dansk Folkeparti then made a proposal that the re-priority contribution should remain, but that the money for 2017 should be transferred back to the municipalities. That's the second best That is also the solution included in this motion for a resolution before the announced amendment comes in a moment. In this way, the position of Enhedslisten is the same today as that of Enhedslisten on 16 March, namely that we are abstaining from voting on this motion for a resolution, just as we, together with the Socialists, voted in favour of the vote following the debate on 16 March in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102750	Thank you. There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102759	What makes me ask the question is the strange • what to call the "strategy" of the Danish People's Party. I think we simply need a few facts to be made quite clear: can the rapporteur confirm that an amendment was tabled by the whole opposition to the budget law to abolish the re-priority contribution altogether? There could be a majority in favour of this proposal, but unfortunately there was not because the Danish People's Party voted against the amendment to abolish the re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102842	That, sir. Magnus Heunicke is quite right here in the Assembly Hall. An amendment was tabled in connection with the examination of the Finance Act that the re-prioritisation contribution should be abolished altogether. The Danish People's Party would not vote for it. In the context of the question debate on 16 March, a unanimous opposition put forward a proposal for the adoption of a total abolition of the re-priority contribution. Nor would the Danish People's Party vote in favour of this proposal. When there is an amendment to this motion for a resolution to abolish the re-priority contribution altogether, we know again what the Danish People's Party will vote. They will not vote in favour of this proposal. When, at the end of this item, we have to have a question debate with a joint text adopted by the opposition as a whole, which also means that the re-priority contribution must be abolished altogether, the Danish People's Party will not vote in favour of it either. So there is no doubt that all the nonsense and manipulation that we have heard today from the Danish People's Party comes simply from a desire to camouflage, that in reality we are not prepared to abolish the very harmful re-priority contribution which, in terms of governance, but also welfare, is going hard on the municipalities if it is not completely abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102950	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513102953	Thank you for that review. I thought it was very, very precise. Then there is only one question left, namely whether the rapporteur can confirm that the proposal that has then been put forward here KL says it, we say it is a plan B, because it would be much better to cancel the re-priority contribution. We have proposed this on several occasions, as the rapporteur has just explained. So this is our plan B to make sure that the money comes back to the municipalities during the budget law period. Can the rapporteur confirm that the proposal we have then put forward here is the same as the report's contribution to the budget which the Danish People's Party is apparently standing in the back of the House today? That is what they themselves have written, and yet they vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103047	That last one's just right. It is also true that it is a plan B. But I must also say that where we are in the Enhedslisten, we do not think it is time for a plan B when it comes to 2018 and 2019. We believe that we should stick to Plan A. I am a positive person, so I actually believe that before we negotiate a municipal agreement for 2018, there is a realistic chance that the wobbly government that we have, with a majority of one mandate, will not be there anymore, and then there is a new political majority that actually wants to scrap the re-priority contribution. So we want to keep the focus on what is the good solution and on what is Plan A, namely that the re-priority contribution will be scrapped completely and completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103139	It's a whole new experience for me in this Parliament, after Mr. Rune Lund has come in that every time I come up on the platform for him, I have to put it down. We are talking today about the re-prioritisation contribution. The position of the Liberal Alliance on the re-prioritisation contribution is very clear, because we went to the election for a re-prioritisation contribution for the municipalities. We believe that the municipalities are capable of making them more efficient. The naked figures say that if all municipalities were to drive themselves as efficiently as the municipality of Frederiksberg, as the municipality of Frederiksberg, then a total of 29 billion could be saved. kr. in the municipalities. That's over 10%. of the public consumption in the municipalities that could be saved if all municipalities operated themselves as efficiently as Frederiksberg Municipality. I believe that people who know people who live at Frederiksberg or who have lived at Frederiksberg can confirm that the service to the citizens of Frederiksberg is not bad. On the contrary, the experience for many who have lived in the municipality of Copenhagen is that if they move to the municipality of Frederiksberg, the service is better, even though the municipality of Frederiksberg drives itself more efficiently than the municipality of Copenhagen. So there is no connection that because you spend a lot of money inefficiently, as other municipalities do, you have a much, much better service. Nah, Frederiksberg Municipality has a great service compared to other municipalities, but drives itself cheaper than other municipalities. Therefore: Municipalities can make themselves more efficient and, when they can do so, it should also be felt on the block grant granted by the state to the municipalities. After all, the state is financing 25%. of public consumption in the municipalities. Approx. 65 billion kr. are sent annually from the state to the municipalities. When the municipalities can drive themselves more efficiently, the state should not continue to send as much money out there, because that money can be spent better than on municipal inefficiency. They can, for example: is used to lower taxes at the bottom of the income scale. The Liberal Alliance has proposed several years ago that a penny should not be paid in tax for the first DKK 7,000 you earn a month when you are in work • no tax on the first DKK 7,000. Our proposal was to use a re-prioritised contribution to that and to use a re-prioritised contribution to finance that in the years to come we will have more elderly people and more children who will require a larger spending item on public sector accounts. So we can use the re-priority contribution to these two things. That is why we have also tabled the same proposal for adoption today, as we did on 16 March, when we had a similar debate. The proposal for adoption reads: "The Danish Parliament states that in 2017 released funds as a result of the municipal re-priority contribution will be used to support the future municipal economy, for example. through increased service and higher employment. Priority must be given to the use of funds where the need is greatest. The actual implementation takes place in the context of the negotiations on the local economy and the financial law negotiations. ▪ Here I would like to add 2017-2019, because that is what this question debate is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103522	Thank you. There are, for the moment, two brief comments. The first is from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103531	Thank you to the rapporteur. I recognise that the rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance and therefore has these views in relation to cuts in the local economy. What I am really just wondering is that the Liberal Alliance believes that the re-prioritisation contribution is a good way of doing so, because in our optics it gives us an uncertainty in the municipalities as to how they should budget. They know they have to budget for sending 1%. to the state, and maybe they'll get some of the money back. I actually thought that the position of the Liberal Alliance and that is what I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it would be in advance to say: we will then cut the municipalities by a certain percentage. Does the rapporteur not agree that this gives rise to uncertainty over the budgeting of municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103619	Before the rapporteur takes the floor, I would like to say that proposals for adoption can in fact only be tabled under the next item, which is a question. So I guess it was just an announcement of what comes under the next point. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103633	It is a long day today and there are many suggestions, and I have just mixed two things up. To the question put by Mrs Josephine Fock, I would like to say that we do not want it to be the case that first there is the re-priority contribution, and then we guarantee that the money from the re-priority contribution will return to the municipalities in the same amount. It's someone else who means it. Our wish is that the municipalities should know that each year they have to make them more efficient by 1%, and then they should also know that, of course, in the municipal negotiations, there will be cost coverage in relation to the increased costs caused by more elderly and more children. We do not think there is any uncertainty about it, that is quite fine, and I think the municipalities can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103729	Mrs. Josephine Fock? No. Then we have a brief comment from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103737	It was actually because I wanted to be sure that the rapporteur was aware that we were dealing with item 2 on the agenda and not item 3 on the agenda. Fortunately, the President has helped the rapporteur with this, but just for the sake of good order, since it is not a question of adopting a resolution, I just have to be sure that I know the answer to the Liberal Alliance's position in relation to the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103811	We shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103814	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103816	I am not surprised, of course, but I just thought that for the sake of good order, ordinary service, I would be sure that we had done it right in relation to the annals, namely that that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103830	That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103832	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103837	Thank you. What I really want to ask the rapporteur is that it has been said several times that this creates uncertainty about the economy of the municipalities and you have to fire people and then you may have to hire them afterwards. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the agreement that has been made includes a large part of the amount here, perhaps even the whole amount, also in the economic negotiations between the government and the municipalities, and that means that the municipalities will know their economy or at least a large part of it in the context of the agreement that the government is going to make with KL, that is to say, that you know your economy when you have to plan your budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103911	I can fully confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103914	Sir. René Christensen? No. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513103921	Thank you. In fact, I think that was the rapporteur's introduction, in which he put a lot of pressure on the fact that we, the Liberal Alliance, actually went to elections on a re-priority contribution, and that is how I remember the election campaign. As I remember the election campaign, there is indeed reason to emphasise that at least one party went to the polls on a minus growth, a re-priority contribution, and that was, as I remember, the Liberal Alliance. On the other hand, no other party went to the polls on this, and certainly not the party that sits in government, namely the Left Party or their big support party, the Danish People's Party. They did not go to the polls on a change of priority contribution. Is it also the rapporteur's view that in that election campaign only the Liberal Alliance went to elections on a re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104011	It is true that we were the only ones who went to the polls on a change of priority contribution. If we take, for example... Left, I would say that the Left went to the vote on the idea that there should be zero growth in public spending, that is to say, a stop to spending, and, as the policy of the Left and the government has been put forward today, it is the policy that is being pursued if I am to defend the government against accusations of breach of the law or the like from Mr. Magnu Heunicke, because the government's view is that there should be a re-priority in public consumption, but not a reduction in public consumption, even in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104043	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104045	This is how it has ended here in the debate about the economy for 2016, but if you read the budget law, if you read the government basis, and if you hear what the Prime Minister himself said in this Parliament hall, you know that it is actually government policy, if they can get through with it, that money from the municipalities from the re-priority contribution should go to tax cuts. It's in the government base, and that's what the Prime Minister says. The fact that, through hard work, a majority has been manifested that has pushed the government to say, at least next year, that the money will have to be returned is another matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104125	I do not think I have read it in the government base, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke has read. But that's not my job. In fact, I think it is rather a bad habit for the Socialists that when there are people from the Enhedslisten, they have to answer questions about the policy of the Danish People's Party, and when there is one from the Liberal Alliance, I have to answer questions about the policy of the government, so we should ask the rapporteur about the policy of the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104150	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104216	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal, the municipalities will be given a guarantee that the money raised by the re-priority contribution will be returned to the municipalities. At the same time, this means that the municipalities, which are currently under financial pressure, have a guarantee of how much money they actually have in everything, and we support that in the alternative. At the same time, we are quite generally opposed to the re-prioritisation contribution, because we believe that the re-prioritisation contribution gives the municipalities an unfair uncertainty which makes it difficult for the municipalities to budget in the longer term too. And it is important, in order to be able to implement a municipal policy, to know what you have to have at your disposal. We believe that, from the tax freeze to the expenditure ceiling, the possibility for municipalities to decide their own budgets has been reduced, and we believe in the alternative that municipalities should be freed. That is why we want to go further than what the Socialists are proposing here. We all want to cancel the re-prioritisation contribution and also hear it, and we think it is very nice that the Socialists will table an amendment to their own motion for a resolution in which they will withdraw the re-prioritisation contribution. The re-prioritisation contribution is the latest of a number of measures which have reduced municipal autonomy and the municipalities' right to prioritise. There are several requirements for standards and streamlining in the different areas of action such as the elderly, employment and integration. There is a tax freeze and real minus growth, which has meant that every year the municipalities dismantle sound and sensible measures due to huge savings, and there is a budgetary ceiling that limits the possibility of transferring money from year to year and thus making investments for the future. And the latest on the tribe here is the re-priority contribution. We believe it is important that the municipalities know what they have to budget with and what they can tell their citizens if we are to take self-government seriously. In this way, we believe that the re-priority contribution is a flawed construction. The municipalities are told to save 2.4 billion. kr., and that they may get them back, but maybe also earmarked for one thing or another. We do not think this is a serious way of budgeting. In addition to making it more difficult for municipalities to budget, the approach is also an expression of a lack of confidence and humility in the abilities of the municipalities, when you think you are centrally better at caring for the citizens locally. We believe that the municipalities should be trusted, and we should not think that they know better than they do locally. The municipalities want the best for their citizens, and the solutions are usually better, the closer to the citizens the reality exists. We lack greater respect for local self-government and we lack confidence that the municipalities can give priority on behalf of their citizens rather than act as agents of the policy of the current government at all times. However, although the proposal does not go as far as we would have liked, it goes a bit, and we look forward to seeing the amendment from the Socialists where they will completely abolish the re-priority contribution. That proposal will be supported by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104524	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104533	Thank you to the Social Democrats for bringing up again this crucial debate on the Danish economy and the re-priority contribution. Hopefully, our position on the re-priority contribution is well known. We're against it. We think this is the wrong way to do it, and we think it is primarily because the methodology chosen by the government is very centralistic. After all, we all know that there is still room for improvement in various areas of the public sector, because new technologies and new methods are emerging and priorities can be set differently. However, the unconscious green harvesting method chosen by the government is very unsympathetic and can hardly fail to go beyond the well-being and core services of the municipalities in a situation where the increasing number of refugees is already under heavy pressure. In addition, it is almost where we think the chain jumps most of the time that one has chosen a method which means that one lets the municipalities make all the difficult choices, do the hard work, reap the method, and then you take the money into Christiansborg, where the government then sits with the Danish People's Party and others a late night hour and distribute the money to the areas where you think you can get the most voters for them. We do not think this is a very sympathetic method, nor do we think it is a very strategic method, which is why we are opposed to it. Since it is not possible and one can really wonder at the position of the Danish People's Party in this matter to find a majority in order to drop the re-priority contribution, the Social Democrats have chosen to table a motion for a resolution with which, as a kind of plan B, they will try to ensure that the money goes back to the municipalities. We understand the intention of the proposal. However, we are a little concerned about this, and it is for the reasons that were discussed before, namely whether we can directly confirm the re-priority contribution by supporting it, just as it is very important for us that, if it is to return to the municipalities, it is something that happens in the context of the municipal negotiations, that is, direct dialogue between the government and the municipalities, and not in the financial negotiations. The comments on the motion for a resolution have stated that this can be done either in the municipal negotiations or in the financial law negotiations. If it is to go back, then we will clearly prefer it in the municipal negotiations. Now I understand that the Socialists are coming up with an amendment with which, instead of proposing the complete abolition of the re-prioritisation contribution, they are proposing to do away with it. This makes it much easier for me, because I can say that we support it warmly, at least, and it is quite reasonable if we can get that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104814	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104819	When the Radicals speak of economic policy and the policy that the Radicals want to pursue, I often hear such a phrase in my head as I cannot find in the specific policy of the Socialists: we are also listening to economists. The economists, whom the Radicals themselves have helped to appoint in the then government's Productivity Commission, say that the municipalities can streamline the administration. I think that the economists are open to taking into account the efficiency gains where they can best be used for the benefit of Danish society and the future economy of Danish society, for example. Into the Treasury, where they can be used for example. to ease some taxes and charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513104934	As I said, I believe that there is room for efficiency, but that is quite right, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen points out that we believe that the money is best placed in the municipalities' coffers. Why? Because we currently have historical refugee pressure. Because we believe there is a need to invest in our future, as economists also recommend in education, in proper care for the elderly, in our future, children, day care institutions, etc. etc. After all, we are concerned about making some economic reforms... that is what the Liberal Alliance tends to agree with... so that you can not only cut back but also invest in the future. This requires economic reforms, and that is why we proposed, during the election campaign, to make some real tax reforms, some real pension reforms, so that we can afford to invest in the public sector as well. It's a good thing that private growth is bouncing out there. We appreciate that. We've laid the foundations for it. But surely it is not for the public to simply go down and down so that we cannot invest in research, education and all the areas that matter? Right now, the situation of the municipalities is that they have to deal with historically high refugee pressure. It's not time to do green harvesting methods out there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105039	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105041	After all, the municipal expenditure on the pressure for refugees will be compensated for in ongoing municipal negotiations with the finance minister. Mr. Martin Lidegaard well. So there is no need to say that therefore the re-priority contribution partout must not be taken into the state and there is a debate on how best to secure Danish society in the long term. I don't understand this. I do not understand why the Radicals take the view that all the billions that are currently spent in the municipalities are always best spent in the municipalities and under no circumstances can be used for example. to reduce the taxation of income from shares, company taxation, taxation of labour. I don't understand. I cannot believe that the Radicals look beyond the consumption of the municipalities and say that everything out there is quite excellent consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105130	No, I just think that we have a fundamental political disagreement here. We believe that there is a need to invest in some of these areas, and we want to create such an economic space so that we can make both the urgent reductions in income tax, which are all concerned with, and at the same time invest in the citizen-friendly welfare. We do not want to cut back on the Danish welfare state. We want to make economic reforms that make it possible both to invest and to make tax cuts. It is not very liberal, I think, to centralise municipal self-government. We will be watching over municipal self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105206	The next brief remark is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105211	In the context of the Finance Act and the resulting budget law, our parties, together with the other opposition, jointly tabled an amendment designed to ensure that there was no re-priority contribution. As you know, a narrow majority voted down that proposal. Will Mr. Martin Lidegaard define the vote as being the same as cementing the re-priority contribution in the period up to 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105246	Yes and no. We are in favour of the errand that the Socialists have here with this resolution, namely to ensure that if Plan A, the abolition of the re-priority contribution, is not possible, we must at least try to ensure that it comes back to the municipalities. But for us, it is only vital that it comes back to the municipalities in a dialogue with the municipalities, in other words during the municipal negotiations. That is actually our greatest challenge in principle here, and that is why it would be exciting if the Socialists agreed with us that this is where it should be, because then we can have a real dialogue, and it could even be that something good can come of it here. What is so crazy in the government's model is that then all municipalities, including the weakest municipalities, that DF claims they want to protect, first out and cut, guys employees, destroy their day care institutions, nursing homes, etc., and then six months later, they may get a check back, and then they can start hiring people again. It is a sour-faced model, which is why it is important that it is the municipal negotiations that are at the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105344	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105345	We are quite in agreement, and the reason why I am asking in this way is, of course, that I see that the Danish People's Party voted against our common amendment in relation to the budget law, as not just a cementation, but to cast in concrete, that unfortunately there is a re-priority contribution until 2019. The debate today has unfortunately shown that there is not really any way that concrete can be chopped up, and that is why I am at least pleased that the Radical Left will not only follow our thinking but will also, of course, vote in favour of the amendment we have announced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105424	I also find it very difficult to understand the position of the Danish People's Party on this, and I also believe that the party is indirectly reaching a long-term recognition or acceptance of the re-priority contribution. But you have to do what you can to justify people here in life, and to the extent that we can get the Danish People's Party to talk at all, we should, of course, try to get it. Let's try to continue this work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105450	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513105455	Thank you. Thank you, too, for today's debate. I think it illustrates very well the challenges we face and, above all, the challenges that the Minister of Finance faces in these weeks in connection with the negotiations that are taking place under the auspices of the National Association of Municipalities these days. That is why the Socialists have tabled this motion for a resolution. So on the content side: I am in fact one hundred per cent in agreement with what has been said by the Socialists. Because what is the problem here is not, as several rapporteurs have said, whether things can be done wiser and better and more effectively in the public sector. Yes, of course you can. I think you do that everywhere every day, and I think that is a task for all of us. The question is, do you have to move money out? And this calculation, which you could say is just a small re-priority contribution, costs the municipalities up to 7 billion. kr. Towards 2019. It is money that I doubt can be made more efficient by itself. And if you can finally make that amount more effective, and we can then take a long philosophical discussion on that; I guess that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen would like to take part in it in a few moments. It is basically about whether we should develop welfare or whether we should just look at it being cut. I think it is basically what we do in the SF that it can and must be done better, but I also believe that we have to look at the fact that there are some places in the public sector where things need to be done better. The demography itself suggests that more funds will be needed to ensure the proper welfare of the elderly, and we have challenges with the norms of our day institutions. I also believe that few people have passed by the fact that despite the reform of primary school, which in many ways helps to raise primary school to a higher level, challenges remain. The question then is: can you do things better and constantly focus on the need for fewer funds? Or should we say that we can at least expect to have something similar, and then the starting point can still be to do better? I am, in fact, in favour of the last solution, because I believe basically that this is both about working on how to achieve greater efficiency, but that it is also about ensuring that municipalities have a framework that they can actually count on and trust. And that is perhaps what, as far as I am concerned, will be the fundamental problem of the re-prioritisation contribution. I would like to acknowledge that a government and a majority of parliaments can always go to the municipalities and say: you must save a given amount; that is our political view; it is we who set the framework for the municipalities, and we choose that this year you should spend a little less or a little more. That is the opportunity and right of a political majority. The problem is here when you go in and park that discussion in a re-priority contribution. Because there is no question of the municipalities having a guarantee of what they have. But it is also not about the municipality's National Association being able to enter into a discussion this summer and say: well, when we have concluded the negotiations, we also have an idea of what we have available in the coming years. No, the situation you will find yourself in in the municipalities, if the re-priority contribution is implemented here, is that a number of funds are being taken from the municipalities, which will then have to make budget agreements during the autumn, knowing that there is a large X-factor, so that they may, if they are lucky, get something afterwards in connection with the Finance Act. It may also be that they are unfortunate and that the money has been spent on some tax cuts or some cheaper cars. It is, of course, an absurd situation to put the municipalities in if, at the same time, we demand that there should be long-term objectives. And that is, in fact, some of what has been done, including with the budget law, which we, the SF, have supported. It is precisely about providing a long-term framework to the municipalities so that they can make a planning that actually ensures that the municipalities know what they have to do with today and tomorrow, but also several years into the future, so that they can plan some activities and actually look at what improvements that may cost a little now, but actually give a boost. This can be both in relation to preventive action, but it can also be a development effort for children, for the elderly, in primary school and in a large number of other areas. That possibility will be far, far more difficult if you say: Now we take some money, and then you can be left with an uncertainty that you might get some funds available later. Perhaps that's where I'm most surprised that the Danish Folkepartie has jumped on this track. Because I actually understood it that way, and I have great respect for that, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party would like to discuss how we improve our welfare. That's a good signal, let's try to do something from those frames. And now with the Social Democrats and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht says that they are in fact willing to drop the entire re-priority contribution with the amendment that has been proposed here today, so it also underlines the possibility of creating a welfare policy majority, which actually recognises that there are challenges in the municipalities, recognises that there is a need for a welfare boost, but also recognises a need for long-term planning and a need for the possibility of long-term planning in the municipalities. And that is unfortunately what they will not be able to do if we vote down this proposal, which unfortunately the majority of citizens are proposing. Against this background, I must inform you that the SF naturally supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110004	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110008	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the SF says that it supports the proposal, because then you have read it. And the proposal is to establish that there must be a re-prioritisation contribution up to 2019. Then it is true that there have now been some oral statements that there might be an amendment. It's quite fine, you have to deal with that. However, the proposal, as put forward, is about cementing a re-priority contribution up to 2019. What I really want to ask the rapporteur is: can the rapporteur not confirm that the agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government on the re-priority contribution for 2016 is that it should be included in the municipal negotiations? So when you come up with that story that the municipalities first have to fire employees, and then they have to hire them again afterwards, then it is so that when the government and the municipalities have made the agreements for the municipalities' finances, they know their finances. Then no one's going into this circus with that you have to fire people and hire them again afterwards. What becomes interesting is how that agreement ends, whether you end up spending all the money in connection with the municipal agreement or something remains. But can the rapporteur not confirm that the municipalities' finances are agreed in municipal negotiations between the government and the KL and that this is what the municipalities should be working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110113	One can hope that this is the way it will be this year, I would say. The problem is, of course, that we have a minority government which, together with part of the bourgeois bloc, says: After we have been subjected to massive political pressure over the past year, we will say that in 2017 you can count on it in the municipalities. They then do not have support in the bourgeois bloc, and it is perhaps a little strange in itself that the government does not have support for its economic policy, but leave it at that. I'm just gonna have to ask sir. René Christensen, and I hope he will have the opportunity to answer this in the second round: If it is so simple that you want to promise that the money can be returned, why settle for 2017? Why not do something about it in 2018 and 2019? I would therefore like to vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Socialists today. We can also table a motion for a resolution which completely scrapes the re-priority contribution. Will the Danish People's Party be involved in this? I've heard it over and over and over again that it's going to be discussed that you can talk about it. However, when you have to put your head on the block and press the button, you are voting time and again for a change of priority contribution and not against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110217	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110219	Yes, we are voting in favour of a reprioritization contribution in 2016 with effect in 2017 to get a more equal Denmark. Well, we're one hundred percent on target for that. We would like the municipalities to show a little solidarity with each other that one can take 1%. from some of the municipalities where things are best. We would really like to stand by that. But what happens if you vote in favour of this proposal is that we are not allowed to see how it is going to work out in reality. What kind of mandate does KL have? How is it that the Minister of Finance gets an appointment with KL? We would like to see that here in the first stage. With this proposal, there will be a parliamentary decision that it will last until 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110258	The truth is that what has happened with the re-priority contribution, also in relation to re-prioritising between the municipalities, and I would like to discuss how the richest municipalities should pay a little more to the poorest and, as you can see from the figures, is that more money has gone into the richest northern Zealand municipalities. The municipalities, which already have a lot of money, have received even more while they have taken away from those who have the least. It is, of course, a grotesque comparison, as you can see when you look at the consequences of the policy that has been pursued with the re-priority contribution. Again, I just have to ask: What about 2018 and 2019? Why did the Danish People's Party vote in favour of a change of priority contribution which takes money from the municipalities, also in the coming years? And this was done by the law on the expenditure ceilings earlier this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110338	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110351	The Conservative People's Party is opposed to the proposal. We need more re-prioritisation in the public sector, we need better priorities and we need more welfare, less administration and better use of taxpayers' money. So the focus of the Folketing should instead be to look at how to provide incentives for municipalities to be driven better and more effectively for the benefit of citizens. We have a well-functioning local democracy in Denmark with 98 well-functioning municipalities, but where one could easily be inspired by one another much more. We could also make some more explicit demands, for example. dedicating, so that we did not experience such ideological opposition to allowing others to carry out some tasks in the municipalities, but said: Let us try to get private operators to handle the horticultural function, the engineering function, some of the functions that are not entirely trivial welfare tasks. There we know from various studies that you can save between 15 and 20 percent. On average, tasks are carried out by private persons rather than by the public authorities. So why not let private companies do it in the municipalities when you know that you can save that money when you know that taxpayers in X-købing or Y-købing can save some money in that way? And you can then politically choose to give priority to either welfare or to make life easier for citizens by lowering taxes and taxes. It must then be a local task. So basically, such a proposal here is about having someone such a very pessimistic approach, I think, that municipalities can do things better. It's not just about placing money in the municipalities. We have some well-functioning municipalities out there, who can find their own way of making their own decisions, can find their own priorities. And there it must also be possible to have a change of priority contribution. So we do not agree with the government that the money simply has to be automatically returned to the municipalities. We basically believe that the re-priority contribution is so what is really needed here are some changes, so you get a different focus, for example. It is a fact that we are getting sick leave in the municipal sector down, that we are getting others to look at some of the solutions, that we are being inspired by best practice, etc. etc. So we basically believe that this resolution is not needed and we will vote against it when it comes to voting on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110642	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110647	Thank you. After all, we heard from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party what this money from the re-priority contribution is to be spent on in the rapporteur's view. They are therefore intended for the poor municipalities in Denmark. It can be Lolland, Guldborgsund, Vordingborg, Norddjurs. This will really mean that if it ends up here and you take these billions from the municipalities and distribute them to the poorest municipalities, then it will be municipalities such as Gentofte, Rudersdal, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Helsingør, which will pay money, and then it will be poor rural municipalities and perhaps even poor urban municipalities, which will have to have the re-priority contribution. That is the clear promise of Mr. René Christensen. I just want to know whether the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party agrees that this is how the re-priority contribution should be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110745	There is no need for more equalisation in Danish society between municipalities. What is needed is that we support the municipalities in being able to be run better. I think that the municipalities are moving in a good direction, they are doing more for the citizens and driving the municipalities better. I also think that the regions are being better run. But the crux of the matter is that we do not need any more compensation. Every time you balance something more, you don't make sure you do it effectively enough in the municipalities. So we want to help give some money to the municipalities for welfare tasks. It may be for the elderly, it may be for school, it may be for children etc., but it must be on the basis of objective criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110823	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110826	But now it gets really interesting. The Danish People's Party stands here and wants to help take money from the municipalities. They stand here on the platform and promise that this money will be used to make a more solidarity redistribution between the municipalities so that the poor municipalities get more. But they have to agree with the Conservative People's Party on the Finance Act. The Conservative People's Party does not want this money to be spent on the poor municipalities. Can the rapporteur not confirm that it is easy to make bills without a host when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stands and promises that the money will be returned to poor municipalities? The Danish People's Party will have to do this, among other things. discuss with the rapporteur's party during the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110912	What is needed is that the municipalities are better run, that you learn from best practice, that you outsource something more and focus on core welfare. We would like to support core welfare in the municipalities: the elderly, the children, the schools, etc. And then you have to make some objective parameters when you hand out money to the municipalities. For us, it is not a matter of staring at colour blindness, that then the municipality has the opportunities and the municipality the opportunities. What we are focusing on is opportunities for the people of the municipalities, for the elderly, for the children, for nursery schools, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110947	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513110951	This is interesting, because it shows completely that it is totally unclear what the re-priority contribution ends up going to. It also shows that there does not seem to be a majority in favour of the model that Mr. René Christensen has toured this Parliament today. But I would like to ask Mr. Brian Mikkelsen: Should it, sir? Brian Mikkelsen says that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen guarantees that in the context of the discussion on the re-priority contribution in the negotiations on the 2017 Finance Act, there will be no redistribution from rich to poor municipalities? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111038	What is our guarantee and what we are discussing is that we only allocate money according to objective parameters. We understand that the state is helping to help the children and the elderly and the schools get the money that is now needed to have a core welfare, but we also have a focus on the municipalities being run better for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111100	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111101	Does this mean that if the objective criteria on which a distribution is based would mean that municipalities such as Gentofte and Rudersdal would have to pay more to municipalities such as Langeland, Guldborgsund or Vordingborg, it would be without the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111128	We have only one purpose, and that is to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in the best possible way. We think it is essential and good that Denmark is a welfare society to ensure that people get an education, that you can get a proper nursery place and that the elderly get proper treatment. But that must be on the basis of objective criteria. And then we will help to ensure that the municipalities are run in such a sensible way that the money is spent properly so that it goes to welfare, if that is what you want to use it for, or used to make life easier and better for citizens by lowering taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111200	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111205	Thank you and thank the Conservative rapporteur for putting the cards so clearly on the table. Does this mean that there is in fact no agreement at all on how the re-prioritisation contribution should be allocated? I had a completely different view, having heard other parties helping to put their backs on it, among others. The Danish People's Party, because on them I understood that there was an agreement that it should be a form of a small compensatory reform. But now the Conservatives say there is no agreement. Is this how it should be understood, in other words, that there is virtually no guarantee whatsoever of what that money should actually go to, who it should go to, and how it should be geographically distributed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111245	No, it's clear. This will be agreed by the Finance Act and, in the first place, when the Minister of Finance makes a sensible agreement with the municipalities. It's KL who's gonna have to make an appointment with the finance minister. I am very confident that the Minister for Finance can make a good deal on behalf of Denmark. Then we will have to discuss what remains to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111305	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111307	That discussion is a little difficult to begin now, I understand, because we do not know how much money there will be on that table, how much money it will manage to save KL from being taken from their budgets. After all, we had the same exercise last time with what was called a dignity billionaire, and it has to be said that Rudersdal, Hørsholm, Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Allerød, the five municipalities with the highest tax base, the five richest municipalities received a net benefit from the re-priority contribution. Is that what you go for again at the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111341	Unlike other rapporteurs, who I can hear talk a lot about certain municipalities in this Chamber, we are not talking about the 98 municipalities as if we are going to do something for certain municipalities. These are neither 40 specific municipalities nor 10 specific municipalities. We have objective criteria for this and we think it is right that the state should help finance kindergartens, primary schools and the elderly. At the same time, we will also make demands on the municipalities that they run their municipality more efficiently so that taxpayers get better welfare for less money. These are the criteria we are setting, and then we are not looking blindly at which municipalities are getting anything out of it. It must be objective criteria that determine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111418	A brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111422	Thank you. We have then found that if there is an agreement on how to use this priority contribution, then it is an agreement between the Danish People's Party and the Finance Minister, which the Conservatives then know nothing about. Otherwise, the rapporteur will have to get me out of the error. What I want to ask is: should the criteria used today be changed to compensate between municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111450	It's a bigger exercise that you're gonna have to do. It's kind of laid out for you to look at the compensation next year. We do not think there is any need for more equalisation, we think that there is a need for municipalities to be driven more efficiently, that there is more focus on citizens' interests and that there is more focus on core welfare in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111511	We are now making it clear that the Conservatives do not think there should be any change in compensation at all. It is very good to have it standing, given that the Danish People's Party will use the re-priority contribution. However, the reason I asked was that the rapporteur himself said that these should be objective criteria, and then I just asked whether the criteria governing the compensation between municipalities should be changed or whether they should not be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111548	After all, this is a discussion that must be taken in connection with the great exercise of compensatory reform. We have the basic view that there is no need for more equalisation in Denmark, rather the opposite. Then we have the basic view that there should be more focus on core welfare. We do not think that there is enough focus on it. There is far too much focus on geography and certain municipalities. We should focus on who we want to help. It's older, and it's children. These are the ones we want to help in a welfare society. And then you have to focus on how to create a system in which municipalities are forced to run their municipalities as efficiently as possible for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111624	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111629	Thank you, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur for saying that, of course, the money must be spent where it is best spent. I think the rapporteur has explained this very well, and that is also what was in the proposal for adoption that was adopted in this Chamber. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something else. I could understand that, sir. Magnus Heunicke, that it is very, very important for the Social Democratic Party what the money will be used for, and there is no agreement on it. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the resolution we are actually discussing today does not contain a line on what the money is going to be used for? The only thing about which the Social Democratic Party has tabled a motion for a resolution is that there should be a re-priority contribution, that it should be there by 2019, and that the money does not contain a line on what the money should be spent on, that is, on what Mr. Magnus Heunicke thinks it's allerals most important. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111715	I can certainly confirm that. What the rapporteur says is one hundred per cent correct, because that is something that has to be discussed in the financial legislation negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111723	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and we shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513111734	Thank you, President. After all, I would like to start by thanking you for the debate. It has been, perhaps not constructive, but probably relatively entertaining to keep up with it. Our resolution today is, after all, a concrete initiative aimed at being a plan B. It has been mentioned several times in today's debate, and that is not wrong. Anyone who has followed the debate on the re-priority contribution knows that the government and its supporting parties chose to vote in favour of the government's bill on the expenditure ceilings, and at the same time I note in this context that the Danish People's Party voted against our and opposition's amendments on expenditure ceilings, which would otherwise have cancelled the re-priority contribution and secured the municipalities' financial framework. This can be defined as Plan A. I assume that the Danish People's Party and all the other parties who have voted against our amendments are aware of the consequences of this. When it is the case that there is a re-prioritised contribution that has been established for 2017, 2018 and 2019, then we have to deal with it. It seems that no one, having followed the general debate in Denmark, may be in doubt that municipalities and mayors across the country are very concerned about the consequences of the re-priority contribution. Allow me, for example. to quote Mads Jakobsen, Mayor of Struer Municipality, who to Århus Stiftstidende says: "People say you can save on administration and roads, but listen, we have been. There's nothing more to get. Up to 80 percent of our budgets are made up of all citizens' services, children, and older people etc., so that is where the money is to be found. ▪ Of course, we need to be aware of this sort of thing, which is why we also found that in the context of the Finance Act the following passage has been included: • The spokesperson notes that the Danish People's Party is making a report contribution to the committee's examination of draft legislation on amended spending ceilings for 2015-2018 and the draft budget on expenditure ceilings for 2019 (new fourth year). Thus, in the context of the conclusion of the Finance Act, it was found that the Danish People's Party would make a contribution to the report. In this report's contribution, the Danish People's Party points out that it wants the money from the re-priority contribution for 2017, 2018 and 2019 to be traced back to the core welfare. It is, after all, good and sensible that we want to make sure of that. It is not as good as if you had been free from the re-priority contribution in the first place, because then you would have been free from this back and forth exercise. But now we wanted to check whether the Danish People's Party actually wanted it here. I noted in the media that, prior to this debate, the Danish People's Party expressed concern about the comments made in our resolution. The Danish People's Party has not mentioned this in this debate. This is probably due to the fact that we have circulated an annex yesterday pointing out that we want to change those comments on the proposal. I assume that the silence on the part of the Danish People's Party is an expression of recognising that we have listened to the fact that we did not want this kind of christiansborg fangs. It's fine. Because we really want results. First of all, we want to ensure that there is in fact a guarantee that the money will benefit the municipalities. But then I have to say that I am disappointed, however, that the debate that is now going on is going so far as to give rise to christiansborg. I do not want to hide the fact that we are only concerned about one thing: ensuring that there is security for the municipalities. If there has been a fig leaf in the Danish People's Party on the basis of the report's contribution to the financial law and budget laws, I have to say that nothing remains to cover anything. The Danish People's Party is left naked. On my question to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party rapporteur, earlier on what we can do to help the Danish People's Party ensure that the money comes back to the municipalities, was the answer: There is nothing that the Danish People's Party wants to get help. In any case, that is quite clear. It is not just cemented, it is cast in concrete. It is a pity that this is the case, and it is also a pity that you do not want help to secure the municipalities in the future. There are many things that we think are essential to make. We do not believe that symbolic policy on redistribution should be something that stands in the way of ensuring that municipalities continue to have the means to ensure core welfare. What is crucial is that we ensure the core welfare first and last. With regard to this motion for a resolution, the Socialists, as I have indicated from the bottom of the House, intend to table an amendment. The amendment will be that the Folketing requires the government to abolish the re-priority contribution in the municipalities for the years 2017-2019. And, of course, I look forward to the parties which have indicated that they wish to support it, also supporting that amendment when this proposal is put to the vote in the Assembly. In view of this, I would like to thank you once again for the debate. I have to say that, unfortunately, there is a majority, albeit slightly, in order to implement the re-prioritisation contribution in Denmark. I think that many municipalities will be disappointed with this, but that does not, of course, change the fact that the Socialists most certainly saw that it was not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112437	Is the rapporteur finished? Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112441	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht knows very well that a financial law applies one year at a time. Then it is also true that the expenditure ceilings are set four years in relation to it. But it is also under negotiation in the context of a financial law. There is no doubt that if you now said yes to the motion for a resolution as it stands here if you succeeded in obtaining a majority for it then just remember that a government cannot ignore a majority of the people. At least it shouldn't do that. So if you voted 'yes', if the Social Democrats succeeded in getting this through, it would be the case that you would not be able to move on the re-priority contribution. There would be no room for a debate on this, because then there would be a majority of Parliaments that a finance minister would probably not ignore, which would say that the re-prioritisation contribution should last until 2019. That's the real thing, and it's not a parliamentary fang, because that's the way it is. It may well be that the Social Democrats have found out that it was perhaps a mistake for us to adopt this proposal, and that is fair enough. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that if you vote through this proposal as it stands today, there is a majority of the House that the Minister will of course follow until 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112551	But Mr. After all, René Christensen has himself voted in favour of budget laws ensuring that there is a re-prioritisation contribution up to 2019. It's sir. René Christensen, who has cast in concrete, that there is a change of priority contribution. So, of course, we must take note of that. The Social Democrats take note of the fact that there is one mandate, one mandate which, because of the Danish People's Party, ensures that there is a re-prioritisation contribution. We cannot change that without the Danish People's Party's support. Well, then we have to do the next best thing, and that is to make sure that the money at least goes back. If the Danish People's Party wishes to abolish the re-priority contribution, we say: very, very much. And I have already offered once that we can vote in favour of the amendment we are proposing to abolish it altogether. The Danish People's Party has every opportunity... Everyone... It's just to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112644	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112646	That is where social democracy goes wrong, because you cannot have both opinions. It is fair to say that we are opposed to the re-prioritisation contribution. So, just to be blunt, the Danish People's Party is too out in the municipalities. We are in favour of that. The Social Democrats are against this, but why on earth do you come up with a motion for a resolution which says that you now want a majority of the people, which of course a government cannot ignore, behind it. This means that there will not be a mandate for the parties that are negotiating the Finance Act with the Finance Minister at some point to discuss how the expenditure ceilings should look to the municipalities, because there will be a parliamentary decision, a majority in the Folketing has decided on this resolution. I really hope that the viewers and the listeners who are here can see this as well: this is a proposal that cements that there is this principle and it deprives them of the mandate in the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112733	It is very simple, I must say to Mr. René Christensen. When the Danish People's Party is in favour of a re-priority contribution and does not want to ensure that the money goes back, as has been said and written over and over again, there is only one word for it, and that is hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112751	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112807	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 May 2016. First, we need a explanatory statement, and it is from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513112838	Yesterday, May 12, 20,000 people throughout the country, in 74 municipalities, demonstrated more welfare and against the planned billion cuts by the government. And today, the next day, the Danish Parliament will then hold a query debate on the economy of the municipalities in 2017, which will follow up on the demand from all over the country yesterday that we want more and not less welfare. In connection with the demonstrations yesterday, Jan Hoby, spokesperson for Welfare Saliance-DK, concluded that it was historically a huge success with the many demonstrations and the many participants. In addition, he said: I do not remember the last time there has been such popular opposition and then against such a technical concept as re-prioritisation contributions. This suggests that the Danes have become seriously concerned about the welfare society that it has taken 150 years to build. That is the backdrop of today's debate. The combination of extra-parliamentary pressure and parliamentary work is what it takes to scrap the re-priority contribution; what it takes to scrap billions of cuts in welfare; what it takes to scrap the deterioration. The National Association of Local Authorities and the Government have started negotiations on an economic agreement for 2017. The purpose of this debate is to shed light on the negotiations, but it is also to continue the pressure on the government so that no bad economic agreement is reached between the government and the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513113026	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Finance to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513113039	The Enhedslisten has asked me to explain the economic situation in the municipalities, which we have already discussed earlier today in connection with motion for a resolution B 89. In this context, it is of course relevant to look at the overall public economy and the room for manoeuvre that we have in the public economy in the coming years. As I also made clear in my speech in this Chamber earlier today, in September 2015, the last time we expressed the room for manoeuvre in fiscal policy was over 15 billion. kr. Towards 2020. Since then, structural revenue from the North Sea has been downgraded by 5 billion. kr., and that is why we have now had to reduce the economic scope over the next 4 years to approx. 10 billion kr. Overall, this means that we have less money to do well in the public economy than we previously thought. From a historical point of view, we have limited room for manoeuvre. Overall, the structural revenues from the North Sea since 2013, i.e. in just 3 years, have fallen by just under 20 billion. kr. This represents almost half of the annual expenditure on primary school, and thus the situation is quite different from that of the previous government. At the same time, the influx of refugees and migrants means that the pressure of expenditure within the scope will increase in the coming years. This increases the need for sharp priorities, just as there is a need to look at whether a number of public tasks cannot be solved smarter so that you get more money. In other words, we have a common challenge in developing our welfare societies at a time when strict financial frameworks are a basic condition. There is therefore a need for us to ensure together sustained development in the public sector and to ensure that the money is given priority where it is most beneficial to the Danes. This is among other things. In view of the prospect of a tight framework, the government has found it necessary and appropriate to extend the re-priority contribution to the municipalities. The re-prioritisation contribution is a tool that has been used in the state for many years. It strengthens the ability to repriot across sectors and supports ongoing efficiency and development. And yes, it is also a tool that makes great demands on efficiency and priorities in each municipality and in each state organisation. However, this is a necessary tool for ensuring the sustainable development of the public sector, not least in view of the tight framework for the public economy. We have to recognise that there are no easy alternatives if we are to be able to afford a strong welfare state in future too. The opposition should also be the first to recognise that, as you know, it was under the former government, in other words with the Enhedslisten as a parliamentary support party, that the municipalities could spend 3 billion. kr. less on service. That reduction in the framework I suppose the previous government considered necessary in the light of the limited room for manoeuvre in the overall public economy, in the same way as now when we say that it is necessary for municipalities to continue to make their economies more effective. That is why one might well wonder when the red block now, when they do not have government power, paints a picture that the lower framework automatically gives worse public service. So that we have now reached the point where things cannot be made smarter tomorrow than they are done today and that we should not be able to re-prioritize across the public sector. I don't agree with that picture at all. Firstly, I do not believe that we can live with a public sector that is cast in concrete and where we cannot re-prioritize to those areas where the need turns out to be greatest. Secondly, I do not buy the premise that the municipalities with a total service framework of just under 240 billion. kr. It is not possible to continue to achieve great efficiency gains. On the contrary, I am convinced that the municipalities can continue to make things smarter by learning from each other, through digitalisation, by placing more tasks on the competition level in the same way as the municipalities have done in recent years, where according to KL each year the municipalities have made it more efficient for between 2.5 and 3.0 billion. kr. There is therefore a need for the municipalities to do this in the future too. The funds we are releasing from the re-prioritised contribution will be continuously translated over the government period into priority actions in the citizen-centred welfare where we consider the need to be greatest. 1.9 billion kr. In 2016, the re-prioritised contribution was returned to the municipalities for priority actions in the bourgeois service areas. And with the 2016 Finance Act, we chose to give priority to the elderly area when we set aside 1 billion. kr. to a dignified care for the elderly. Overall, the services of the municipalities were thus increased by 0.5 billion. kr. From 2015 to 2016. This means that the municipalities actually have more money available for service in 2016 than they had in 2015. Thus, this government has strengthened municipal welfare since its accession. For 2017, we have decided to prioritize the municipal welfare areas, among others. in order to ensure the citizen-friendly welfare in the light of the influx of refugees, by transferring all funds from the re-priority contribution to the municipalities in the context of the economic negotiations and the Finance Act 2017. In this context, it is also important to note that the government and KL prior to Easter concluded an agreement on the integration area, in which the municipalities, among other things, are: was given an economic help to establish new homes. At the same time, we have agreed on a large number of regulatory simplifications which make integration efforts in the municipalities better and cheaper, thereby supporting the use of resources in the municipalities. Earlier today, the Social Democrats have proposed that we guarantee that the municipalities will also receive the re-priority contribution back in 2018 and in subsequent years. To give that guarantee I think is irresponsible, not least in view of the current economic situation. Because, as I have also made clear in the past, it is our responsibility as a responsible government to give priority to annual funding for those areas where the need is greatest and where, for example, there is one. There are unforeseen additional costs, just as we must be able to control expenditure and react when the key conditions of the economy change, for example. when structural revenues from the North Sea since 2013 have decreased by just under 20 billion. kr. Therefore, we will not already take a position on the application of the 2018 re-prioritisation contribution. Having said that, we have made it clear that the re-prioritisation contribution will go to citizen-friendly services, but whether it becomes health, the elderly or something quite third, we will take a position on in the relevant economic negotiations and finance laws in accordance with normal practice. Another important part of the municipal economy concerns municipal investment. Public investment has been historically high in recent years. This also applies to municipal investment. The high level of investment has supported growth and employment during the economic crisis. As economic growth grows, there is a need for a normalisation of the level of public investment, and it is in line with a sensible stabilisation policy that easing during a recession is matched by corresponding austerity when the business cycle improves. In the coming years, therefore, public investment will have to normalise at the level of the level financed. If that does not happen, we will have to use our limited scope to finance investment levels, and thus there will be even less priority for service in the coming years. In the case of municipalities, the first steps to adapt have already been taken, among other things. also under the previous government. The next steps will be taken in the coming years to ensure that public investment corresponds to the levels financed. Overall, the financial framework of the municipalities will also be tight in the coming years. This is necessary at a time when the framework for the public economy is narrow. The tight framework will require the municipalities to make the necessary priorities and efficiency, in the same way as it will require the regions and the state. It will not be an easy task, I fully acknowledge that. But does this mean that it is not possible and that it will therefore automatically lead to worse service? No, it certainly does not. Because there are still plenty of opportunities to make municipalities more efficient by learning from each other, by digitalising, by putting more tasks into competition, etc. We must also do so if we are to ensure that we also have a strong welfare society in the future without leaving the bill for future generations. Having said that, however, it is also worth remembering that last year this government chose to prioritise more funds for the municipalities than the year before and that for 2017 it has been decided that the municipalities will have the same funds available for service as they have in 2016. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114210	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114228	At the beginning of May, negotiations on the Municipality Agreement for 2017 started between the government and the municipalities. After all, the government is proposing an agreement that will mean less welfare and large cuts in billions in the municipalities. That is also why we saw yesterday that 20,000 people demonstrated in 74 cities, because they and we want more welfare and not less welfare. Indeed, the cuts planned will lead to the dismissal of public employees and seriously reduced security for children, the elderly, the sick and the vulnerable. The government will take 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities each year through the so-called "reprioritisation contribution'. At the same time, the government will not fully compensate the municipalities for the many new tasks of receiving and integrating people fleeing war, persecution and disasters. In general, the government will not promise that the welfare of 2017 will be at least at the same level as in 2016. On the contrary, the government will cut out billions if it can. There is money for welfare in Denmark. If, for example, we do not know what to do. We can get more money for welfare if we hit harder on the wealthy people who are illegally hiding their wealth in tax havens. According to the National Bank, Danes are hiding between 100 billion. kr. and 150 billion. kr. in tax havens, which means that the common fund misses between 3 billion each year. kr. and 5 billion. kr. We also have the purchase of fighter planes that were announced yesterday. The government has announced that Denmark, if it is up to the government, will buy 27 fighter planes, which will cost about 1 billion. kr. This is what Norway has bought them for and will mean operating costs over the next 20-30 years of between 80 billion. kr. and 100 billion. kr. So there's money for welfare if we get them in the right places. The pressure on the government actually works. There has been intense pressure on the government and since January the Minister for Finance has had to bow to the massive pressure that has been exerted from all over the country. It is from both the left, the trade union movement, but also from municipal politicians, including many left-wing mayors, i.e. from the Minister's own hinterland. The government has had to give in, for example. Promise that money from the re-priority contribution in 2017 will go back to the municipalities. Until recently, the Minister of Finance here in Parliament thought it was in February that the money should go to, among others. tax relief. In addition to the billions of dollars, the finance minister has also been pressured to give the municipalities extra money in 2016 to deal with and receive refugees. It was also the case that the Minister for Finance, among other things. in a consultation in January this year said: I negotiate the economy once a year with the municipalities. It was then twice again as a result of the pressure that has been exerted on the government from all over the country. This also means that we must ensure that the pressure on the government continues. The government's concessions show that the pressure of the population, the trade union movement and politicians is working. That is why we must continue. Because even though the government may be proposing a smaller cut in billions than the government originally started, there are still massive cuts on the menu if the protests against government policy do not continue. Yesterday, May 12, the whole country demonstrated against the government's billion cuts, and people sent the clear signal to both the National Association of Municipalities and the government that there is money for welfare and that we want more and not less welfare. Yesterday thousands of people demonstrated, and today, the next day, the opposition here in the Folketing sends out a clear signal that the re-priority contribution and the billion cuts must be taken off the table. We need to get rid of the degradation. In the context of this debate here today, the five parties in the opposition, and indeed it is the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, SF, Social Democrats and Radicals, will be tabling a proposal for adoption which rejects the re-priority contribution and welfare cuts in 2017, and I would like to read out the proposal for adoption. It reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government maintains a totally unacceptable intervention in municipal selfgovernment by prior budgeting non-contractual municipal savings in the coming years. The commitment to return funds in 2017 does not change this. The Danish Parliament therefore requires the government to cancel the 2017 priority contribution before the conclusion of the next municipal agreement. In view, among other things, of the increasing number of older people and the municipalities' tasks in receiving and integrating people fleeing war, the Danish Parliament is instructing the government in the forthcoming negotiations with the KL to work for an economic solution in 2017, which does not include a re-priority contribution, which requires municipalities to cut welfare and which means that municipalities do not have economic space for investment in people to ensure a sustainable economy in the long term. • V 59).
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114747	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment for the time being. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114757	Now, sir. Rune Lund twice mentioned that yesterday there were 20,000 Danes from all over the country to demonstrate against the re-priority contribution. That would then be an argument for, I think, Rune Lund is right about what he says from the platform. I'd like to know if Mr. Rune Lund can confirm that in Denmark there are 5,620 000 inhabitants, and that thus there were 5,60,000 Danes who did not have the right to vote in local elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114831	That's factually true. However, what is important about the demonstrations yesterday is that in a way that has not been seen for years, we managed to gather people across the country and to get people to arrange demonstrations in each municipality and get 20,000 people to show up from all over the country. This is an important event which, for me, is a sign that something is being done here and that there is a concern that we see deterioration in welfare, while at the same time we see that gifts are being given to the richest, as we see, for example. So with the Finance Act 2016 as Liberal Alliance is part of where we saw gifts to business and where we saw that, for example. luxury cars were made cheaper. The serious concern, I think, caused many people to walk the streets, and I think that there are porridges in something that means that we have something to build on in terms of pushing the bourgeois parties and the government to pursue a different policy, but also in terms of showing that there is in fact an alternative to the policy that is currently under way. will be led in here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513114937	I fully agree that on the left and in trade union circles there is a tradition of meeting and giving speeches about left-wing things, etc., and that then we have managed to gather people on the left and a small crowd of 20,000 out of over 5.6 million Danes yesterday for such an event. Citizen doesn't do much of that. We're having our parties on the occasion of silver weddings, confirmations, city parties, etc., so we don't really do that. However, if we had done so, we could probably have brought together considerably more than 20,000 people who think it is good that the public sector's economy is under control and that we want to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115019	But at least I think the Liberal Alliance should take an initiative on that. I just think that the Liberal Alliance should convene an event where you can show up if you think there should be less welfare here in Denmark. After all, we in the Enhedslisten do not agree very much with the Liberal Alliance on how this society is going to develop. We would like to see more and not less well-being, and we would like to take the money exactly where the Liberal Alliance wants to take it away at the very least, namely the richest, but also from those people who do not contribute enough to the community, for example. Those who hide money in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115056	The next question is, in fact, a fellow party member of the rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115102	Indeed, it is true that I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that there is absolutely no tradition for people to gather on the same day in town halls across the country in this case 74 town halls so that there is absolutely no tradition for it. It's never been seen before. I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that. And then I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that there have recently been polls which showed that a majority of the population think that it is a bad idea with more tax cuts • one would rather prioritise the money on welfare. And we can take with us another measurement which showed that a clear majority thinks it is a really bad idea to spend all these billions on fighter planes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115156	I can confirm that there is a large majority of the population who think it is incredibly unwise to spend many billions of dollars on bombers, which are going to be used to start even more foolish and useless wars around the world • catastrophic wars. There is also opposition to the re-priority contribution of the population, although unfortunately there is a majority of the mandate for it here in the Folketing. I can confirm that organising so many demonstrations simultaneously in so many cities is something new that we have not seen before in Denmark, and this shows that there is a concern as to which way welfare is going. This shows that people are taking the initiative and becoming active and actively committed to a policy which is different from that which is being pursued today. I think we are going to see more initiatives where we see parties and user groups and the trade union movement and ordinary people engage in making sure that we do not get less, but that we have to have more welfare here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115258	The questioner? No. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Magnus Heunicke as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115321	Thank you. The debate that is being held today is really in the right place and in the right place, because the negotiations with the municipalities have just begun, and if you follow them, both when you talk to mayors, when you hear the government in the press and here in the Chamber, then there is certainly reason to be seriously concerned about our welfare society. What is at stake is a re-priority contribution, which is quite an innovation in the municipal world. That was not something we heard a word about in the election campaign, but that is what is at stake and it will cost the municipalities 2.4 billion. kr., which the government will then crawl in from the municipalities, and then through hard parliamentary work we have made the government promise that the money will, after all, come back to the municipalities next year. The mayors then ask: Well to what municipalities, what can we count on? And then they also ask: why is it then that we have to be forced to cut back this summer, that is. to dismiss staff? And where are the large staff groups? It is in the care of the elderly, it is in childcare, it is in schools, in other words the really heavy welfare areas. Why is it that we have to cut back there and then hope to get as much of the money as possible back into the Finance Act, which will then be concluded with the parties invited to the negotiations? What is the wisdom, what is the logic, what is the sound financial management in it? This gives us uncertainty about our welfare. It's gonna get laid off. It gives hope of getting as much of the money back as possible, but with the reports that have been made today, there is so much uncertainty on the part of the blue parties, who are putting their backs on it here, about which municipalities and what criteria and how that money will come back. That's why we're saying in this debate: let's drop it. Let's get rid of that re-priority contribution. Let's get rid of that minus growth and let's encourage the government to make a proper, sensible agreement with the country's municipalities. The fact that we have this debate at all is something surprising if you just compare it with the election campaign. I found some quotes from the election campaign, among others. by the current Prime Minister, who was then the opposition leader, it is actually exactly a year ago or so, namely on 19 May 2015. Just outside this Parliament Hall at the entrance to the election campaign, the current Prime Minister said: "The spending freeze on which we are going to vote means that every year we increase public spending by what is needed to keep up with wage increases and price increases. This means that you can afford to have exactly as many employees tomorrow as you had yesterday. So it was promised by all politicians from the party chairman, the current prime minister, that you will have exactly as many employees tomorrow as you had yesterday. There will be no cut in welfare if the Left were to join. When we tried to warn, it was called a lie. The mayors who tried to warn and said that this could go really wrong and hurt really bad and mean a lot of layoffs were told that it was just spin, and they shouldn't listen to that. Now we can see the reality, and the reality is that the Minister for Culture, who has said here in December, is right before Christmas: the management plunders are many. After all, my own government's re-priority contribution is simply savings. I have to say that the Minister for Culture is absolutely right. The re-priority contribution is a new plunder, because it covers cash redundancies, cash cuts, despite the fact that we were promised that the hand was held under the public sector, under the well-being of all of us. The result of the election, where this was a big theme, was that in this Parliament, in these chairs, there were 126 seats that went to the polls against minus growth. In fact, there were only 53 Members who stood for parties that wanted zero growth or minus growth, and therefore the parties that have changed their minds owe a very good explanation of why we are having this debate now and why the municipalities need to save, cut, dismiss and hope that as much of the money as possible will come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115818	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115823	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Magnus Heunicke, if he can remember any time when mayors have said: We have enough money, don't send any more money to us. Or, sir. Magnus Heunicke remembers that Dennis Kristensen or others have said: there is plenty of money in the public sector, we do not need any more money? It's never happened. Even through the '00s, when public spending was increased and some 70,000 new civil servants were created, mayors still said that welfare was under pressure, and Dennis Kristensen also said that welfare was under pressure. In other words, the fact that some mayors are complaining about the need for efficiency is not new, as mayors always do. So that is not an argument in this discussion, in relation to whether or not political priorities should be set.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513115925	Yes, but this is, of course, a re-priority contribution, and so it is money that has to be delivered from the municipalities to the state account in the Budget Act. We cannot do that, no matter how much we make it more efficient. You can only do that if you lay off, if you fire, which is why this is a new situation compared to what we had before. No matter how much digitalization you introduce, no matter how much you work smarter and more efficiently, I am in favour of it all. We were also in favour of this because we had government responsibility, that is, that we should also be more efficient in the public sector. I am very much in favour of this and it is absolutely necessary to continue it. But when you demand minus growth and you have to deliver money, it is the case that that money will only come if you are made redundant. And that is where we have the situation, which is new to, for example, the situation. The 00s, which the questioner mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120024	This is not a new situation in relation to what it was like under the Socialist Government, which reduced public employment by 10,000. I guess they did, because they thought it was also necessary to look at public expenditure at that time. 10,000 public employees were fired when Mr. Magnus Heunicke was Minister of the Social Democratic Government. It was Mr. Magnus Heunicke on target. Now there is a new situation in which there is still a focus on one of the world's largest public sectors being driven for less money, so that the money for which it is operated less can be spent on other important things in a society that, for example, is not the only one. have very, very low economic growth. That is a very proper priority and it is a responsible priority, and frankly I do not understand why the Social Democrats cannot see it. In fact, I think the Social Democrats can see it, but they are more concerned with criticising the government, hoping that it might help them back in the Prime Minister's Office. I hope that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120132	Nah, we are concerned with guarding our welfare society; we are concerned with the care of the elderly; we are concerned with childcare; we are concerned with quality in the primary school; we are concerned with the huge tasks that the municipalities are carrying out. We are concerned that they are well and effectively handled, but also so that they provide security and security. With regard to the municipal economy under the SR government in the 4 years, I would say that if you look up the financial figures • the most recent ones we have are from 2014; we are still waiting for the 2015 figures • you can see that from 2011 to 2014 the municipalities' expenditure increased by 1.5 billion. kr. And that is simply what is on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120212	The next question is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120216	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very vivid report on how bad things are going to be if you look at 1%. of the total economy, but that is fair enough, and we also had a debate before about this re-prioritisation contribution. I would just like to ask: can the rapporteur here from the floor of Parliament guarantee that social democracy is against the re-prioritisation contribution? Because you can get a little confused when you hear what it's all about. So can the rapporteur confirm that that is not what he wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120244	Thank you very much for the question from the Danish People's Party. If I now try to answer this question quite clearly, perhaps we can move forward after the Danish People's Party has tried to spin this debate that there should be uncertainty about it. It almost surpasses my imagination that, after my rapporteur's speech, that question should be asked, but it has been asked, and now the answer comes: we Socialists are against the re-priority contribution. That is why we tabled an amendment to the effect that it was completely annulled in the budget law. Unfortunately, we could not get support for this from the Danish People's Party, so it was not adopted. That is why we have the debate today, and that is why we are co-sponsors of the proposal for adoption which calls on the government to get rid of it in the municipal negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120336	[Sound emission]... a motion for a resolution to cement the re-priority contribution until 2019, and now I am here with a JP article from 10 March, which writes: "The current efforts of the Social Democratic Party to have the re-priority contribution removed are in contrast to the fact that the party top is open to keep the municipal green harvester when the majority had to change...· Then the party's finance rapporteur is asked: Do you think that it should be abolished? It would have been done away with if we were in government now. But what the economic framework for Denmark looks like sometime in the future, when we had the chance to take over government, it is hard to deal with today. That is why I cannot give any guarantees as to what is going to happen in the future. Benny Engelbrecht. I would say that the guarantee is somewhat hollow when the rapporteur goes out and says that it might well be that that tool will be used in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120427	It is the Danish People's Party that has chosen to vote for the re-priority contribution, and it is the Danish People's Party that has chosen to use its votes for minus growth. We have just heard in the debate before that there was only one party, namely the Liberal Alliance, who voted to get negative growth in the public sector, and that is why the Danish People's Party has to answer for it. We have tabled proposals against, we have tabled amendments against, and we have a debate today where we are against. The question is: What is the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120458	The next question is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120503	Thank you. I should just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether he can confirm that under the former Socialist-led government, the municipalities' service framework was cut by 3 billion from 2012 to 2015. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120521	I believe that this debate requires that we go deeper into the figures and look at it, not just at the service framework, but at how much money was spent, and now we are down in the history books, but Mrs Kjer Hansen asks herself, and I would very much like to go that way and answer it. The fact was that back in 2011 we inherited a situation where in the municipalities it was far, far below the service framework. That was the situation, and that is why we must look at how much money was actually spent on the municipal welfare that we have on today's agenda. And how much money was spent? Yes, according to the latest accounting figures that we have, which are the figures from 2014, 1.5 billion were spent. kr. more than was used in 2011. These are the figures that are factual, as to how much money was spent, and that must be what is relevant. That is certainly what has produced concrete results out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120613	Yes, but I will help the rapporteur to put questions to the Minister for Finance so that we can get the figures out and make it clear that the service framework is actually cut by 3 billion. kr. in the years 2012-2015. But let me just ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm that the overall service framework of the municipalities has been raised by 0.5 billion. kr. from 2015 to 2016, i.e. the municipalities have more money for service in 2016, than they had in 2015. Or should we also have it checked so that the rapporteur can confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120651	I can confirm that it has actually been possible, through a work here in Parliament, to ensure that we do not yet know the result, but it is manifested in the decisions that, for this year and next year, the plans in the Left Party to use the re-priority contribution, that is to say, to use the welfare money of the municipalities, for tax cuts, cannot be made. After all, we have just had a debate about whether we cannot go ahead with it for the next two years, and we will not be able to do that because we still want to spend the money on tax cuts, and we are in the opposite direction. But I can confirm that we have managed to prevent this in the first few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120725	The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120730	It was not only when the Social Democrats were in government during the last parliamentary term that they managed to keep tight budgets for the municipalities, which led to lower public spending, but it was also an objective that we would do so during this parliamentary term if we regained the power of government. Sir. After all, Magnus Heunicke's government went to the polls for a total of 12 billion to be made more effective. kr. in the public sector up to 2020 and this corresponds to a re-prioritisation contribution of 0.5%. a year. It was not called a re-prioritisation contribution, but it was the same as a re-prioritisation contribution, i.e. 0.5%. of course, some of the efficiency improvements had to be made in the municipalities as well. So I'm gonna listen to Mr. Knox. Magnus Heunicke: What has happened since the election campaign, which would make municipalities more efficient in order to achieve a total saving of 12 billion. kr. in the public sector, and now, when you turn very strongly against it and think it is very terrible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120823	Our policy has not changed at all. Our social democratic policy is exactly the same, and we are, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech and in my replies to the party colleague from the Liberal Alliance, very much in favour of more efficient and efficient work, including in the public sector. And there, too, I think it has to be said quite soberly that we have proven that we can deliver when we have had the leadership of this nation. The question is, then, whether to take the money that is made more efficient and remove it from the public sector and spend it on tax cuts or whether to use it to strengthen welfare. There is our policy that they should be used to strengthen welfare, because that is what is so much needed. So, with our policy, we will have a more efficient public sector and, at the same time, a strengthening of welfare. After all, the re-priority contribution will mean that it is not enough to be more efficient, but that you also have to go out and guys directly. So this is a different policy from what we have been talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120922	That's fine. This means, of course, that the Socialists obviously agree with the Left that when you have made the money more efficient, the money must be spent on something different. For that is the view of the Left, and that is also the view of the Socialist Group. But summa summarum is that it's the same thing. The Social Democrats went to the polls to make the municipalities more efficient, and then they took the money into their 2020 plan so that it could be distributed everywhere in the public sector, and that is what the Left wants now and what the Danish People's Party wants. It's just a matter of whether it's 0.5%. or it's a whole percent out in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513120958	If you have to interpret this debate as if the Social Democrats are now in agreement with the Party of the Left or the Danish People's Party, then you will have to be very, very far out on the right to see that there is no difference. But it is clear that the farther out on the right wing you are, the further away you are from the parties here too, and then it may be difficult to see the big, big differences there are. The re-priority contribution was not part of our 2020 plan and was never part of it. Besides, it wasn't part of the Left's electoral base either, was it? Because no word was said about it until after the elections, where it was then invented. Moreover, it was not something that the Danish People's Party talked about before the elections. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121035	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker in line is Mr. René Christensen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121042	Thank you for that, President. It is actually a rather awkward debate that comes here, but it is probably because there was this messy resolution before we were going to this question. If you read the question, you see that it is quite interesting and you could have a good discussion. It states that the Minister for Finance should explain the economic situation in the municipalities in 2017 and beyond, including among others: for the re-prioritisation contribution, expenditure on the reception of refugees and demographic expenditure. I was really looking forward to coming down here and talking about the challenges that exist in the municipalities, because there are some challenges in the municipalities, also because of demographic expenditure. What the Danish People's Party agrees with the government is that one of the solutions, among other things. is the re-prioritization contribution. The municipalities which have financial difficulties in carrying out the task can get some help through the solidarity that may exist in other municipalities contributing to our being able to have a more equal Denmark. We just haven't had that discussion at all right now. What kind of challenge are the municipalities facing out there? There will be such a debate up here, particularly from the Social Democratic Party, that now there will be minus growth in the municipalities. There isn't. There will be 2.4 billion. kr. We're gonna get in, and then we're gonna get 2.4 billion. kr. Out. Then it is true that some municipalities will experience that they will get less money, and some municipalities will experience that they will get more money. In other words, the municipalities under one do not get less money, so there is no minus growth. It is true that there was minus growth under the Social Democratic led government, and there was minus growth each of the years. Fortunately this has been changed now with a bourgeois government; now there has been plus growth in the municipalities. It's a fact. More money has come out to the municipalities for welfare after there has been a change of government and the Danish People's Party has become a support party. It's a fact. There was no such thing under the former Socialist-led government. Therefore, there are still challenges in the municipal landscape, and I would like to deal with that. It is so, and fortunately for that, that when you experience that growth is coming back in some places in Denmark, but certainly not everywhere, you find that growth comes in the larger cities, among other things. Copenhagen, Aalborg and Aarhus. These are the places where there is growth and employment. We welcome this in the Danish People's Party. What is also happening, and we all know this, is that when growth comes, there is optimism, rent prices also begin to rise. One of these is the experience. also in the Copenhagen area. Now you have to be careful with terms that are socially vulnerable. There are some citizens on transfer income; they may be cash benefits recipients, they may be people on early retirement or something else, who, of course, are looking at the housing costs that go to heaven and say: Where are we going to move? It is quite fair for those citizens to choose to leave, for example. The City of Copenhagen and out to the provincial municipalities where you can get a good accommodation, you can have a much better life and a good life, also on early retirement. There we only see now that the challenge is that the municipalities have a real difficulty in fulfilling the tasks, because they have so many citizens who need extra help from the welfare community. It is the welfare society that we all have the feeling that the whole Assembly Hall agrees that we should safeguard. What we can see is that the quality of the welfare society varies greatly from municipality to municipality. We are a tiny country, at least geographically, that is what we have to say. And therefore it is amazing that there can be such a big difference in what kind of service you can have in one municipality compared to the other municipality. That is what I really thought this question debate was going to be about. I certainly welcome that. We say that as point 1 of such a quick exercise without a very great exercise in creating a whole new system, which KL also has to overcome, the re-priority contribution is a bit on the road. That's 1%. of the economy of the municipalities, which is being introduced. We have also said that we would very much like to see a great deal or, for that matter, everything agreed in the municipal negotiations. In other words, the municipalities are not going to fire people who will subsequently be recruited. It is a real attempt to have a more equal Denmark. It is true, then, that there are some municipalities that are pissed off at the fact that now the Folketing is coming and taking away local self-government, for it might be that some people in such negotiations thought to say that it should go to the social areas. It may not be possible for you to sponsor your local football club because you expect it to go to the Super League. It may not be possible to spend the money on luminous benches. It may be that there are some things you cannot spend money on, so you have to spend them on some other areas, i.e. core welfare. That's pretty much true. That's what the mayors are upset about. The mayors are pissed that they don't get a money bag that's unmarked, and then they can do with it whatever they want. However, in the Danish People's Party we dare to assume that responsibility, even in connection with these agreements, even if we are not in the municipal agreement, if there is anything left in connection with the Finance Act. But there is no doubt that we have said very clearly to the government that we hope they will go to the negotiations with that mandate. And I also hope that the KL will go to those negotiations with some kind of solidarity and say what we can do with 1%. of our total economy. How can we get a more equal Denmark? That is why I was also disappointed yesterday that the trade union movement will stand up for so many places and fight against solidarity. If some were to fight for solidarity, it should be the trade union movement. When we look at what has happened to cuts there were good reasons for that, that is not at all what is being discussed, but there were also cuts under the previous government • you were not on the field, but now you are on a matter where we want more solidarity. It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121604	There is a proposal for adoption and the rapporteur would like to read it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121610	I'll do that. It's from the Danish People's Party and the Left. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the financial framework of the municipalities in 2016 has increased overall by 500 million. kr. in relation to the previous year under the former SR government. Furthermore, the Danish Parliament has agreed that in 2017, as a result of the municipal re-prioritisation contribution, funds released will be used to ensure the core welfare of the municipalities. The funds must therefore be given priority where the need is greatest. The actual implementation takes place in the context of the negotiations on the local economy and the financial law negotiations. • V 60).
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121643	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are a number of brief comments, and the first question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121656	We have been standing here a few times now, and I do not think there is any reason to repeat ourselves in these games, so I would really like to put a very specific, specific question to Mr Beazley. René Christensen: Now that this money is going back to the municipalities and I understand that the Danish People's Party is the guarantor of the municipality agreement in spring, it would not be best to negotiate it so that the municipalities have influence, but especially so that all the economically weak municipalities, like Mr. René Christensen would like to help, not first have to fire in the day care institutions, nursing homes and all that, and then six months later, maybe/maybe not, get some money back and then have to hire the same municipal staff again, so you got a rigorous course that the municipalities can plan and budget after that stop and go? If we now forget the second discussion a little, would it not be best to clarify this in the spring rather than into the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121749	Yes, but that is also what lies in the decision taken by the government and the Danish People's Party together, i.e. that you start with it in the municipal negotiations. Of course, we also expect KL to come in with good mine and try, if this can not succeed, so that you can have a more equal Denmark. That is also why we do not want to support the previous resolution, because it merely cements that the money should be returned. After all, we do not know how these negotiations are going to end, and that is why we would also like to have a free mandate in the future in relation to working on the re-prioritisation contribution. However, I very much agree with the questioner that the best solution is for a good solution to be found in the municipal negotiations so that we do not have to fire employees and then have to hire them again. We hope that both the government and KL have the opportunity to make an agreement that gives a more equal Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121835	I think this is a very important announcement. One thing is clear: it will in any case be stated in the negotiations and it is that the re-prioritisation contribution will have to be returned to the municipalities. There is, of course, a majority in the Folketing when the situation is as it is. But should we not also take the next step, and like giving the finance minister the bound mandate, that 1) the money should be returned to the mandate he has already had and 2) it should be negotiated with the municipalities, not what the content should be and where it should be prioritised, but it should be negotiated with the municipalities so that the municipalities know what they have to do well with in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121913	What one can fear is that one could come up with a mandate that said that the money should only be returned to crown, that is to say, a municipality that has delivered 10 million. kr., must also have 10 million. kr. Back up. Then we're just out in an employment project. We really hope that both KL and the government want to work constructively on how to get a more equal Denmark. In connection with the municipalities, we find that we have a primary school where there is so much difference between the average grade and who gets a qualification after the 9th and 10th classes. It is not okay when you look at how small a country Denmark is. We want that to change, and that is why we hope that the model that I believe both the Radical and the Danish People's Party are talking about here, that is to say that you can do it in the municipal negotiations, will be the way to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513121957	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122002	Sir. René Christensen says that the re-priority contribution should be used to make some redistribution between municipalities. But sir... René Christensen does not confirm that there is no majority for such a model here in the Folketing? We heard Mr. Brian Mikkelsen certainly does not support such a model. I'll eat my old hat, if I had one of those, that the Liberal Alliance would probably not support such a model either. That is also why there are only two parties from the blue bloc behind the proposal for adoption, which Mr. René Christensen has read. So my question will be: if there is not the redistribution that Mr. René Christensen would like, it means that Mr. René Christensen will be supporting the opposition next year in abolishing the re-priority contribution altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122101	It is the case that I heard the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr Conservatives. Brian Mikkelsen said that the money should be spent where it does the best good. We are in agreement with that. We then see that where they do the best good, there is where they can help to give a more equal Denmark, when you look at the welfare benefits that the municipalities have the opportunity to provide and in some places do not have the economy to provide. Because I do not believe that there are evil municipalities that do not want to help their citizens, but there are some who are so badly affected financially that they find it difficult to provide that service. And, in relation to the second, it is very important to remember, even in relation to the debate surrounding the previous resolution, that if it had been voted through, there was no possibility of changing how to use the re-prioritisation contribution. Then it would have been cemented solid. Fortunately, that mandate is open because there will be no majority in favour of the Social Democrats' proposal to cement the re-priority contribution until 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122148	We note that there is no majority in favour of the redistribution model, which has not been further defined by the Danish People's Party. It has not been further clarified what it contains, but at least today there is not a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly for such a model. My question is simply: if it is the case in the context of the financial law negotiations that the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance say: The model for municipalities in North Zealand and other rich municipalities to pay to Guldborgsund or Langeland or other poor municipalities, are we not in favour of this, does this mean that the Danish People's Party will abolish the re-prioritisation contribution for next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122231	Now we have rather good cooperation in the blue block, so we should not worry about that, we will find out. No, what's gonna be interesting is gonna be the deal with the government and KL. If it goes all the way to the sand, you could imagine saying: it is not possible to make the agreement there, and then you have to transfer the whole amount to the Finance Act. I do not think that is in the interests of the municipalities. I think it is very important for the municipalities to go into this with it, what to say, the intention that with 1%. of the economy in solidarity wants to have a more equal Denmark. I really hope that the KL will be given the mandate for the negotiations they will have with the government, otherwise there will also be other opportunities to distribute the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122308	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122315	Solidarity talks about and redistribution between municipalities, which is a very good idea, but this is done through a compensation agreement. That is how it has been done historically. The Enhedslisten helped to make a compensation agreement when we had a social democratic government which, contrary to what the rapporteur said last time he was on the platform, meant that the rich municipalities, including the large cities such as Copenhagen, Aalborg and Odense, paid to municipalities such as Guldborgsund, Lolland, Vordingborg, Kalundborg and Norddjurs. This is how you deal with it, if you want solidarity, you make a compensation agreement. The rapporteur has been offered an offer to sit down and make such a compensation agreement. The re-priority contribution is, of course, to stick the pot into the municipal treasury rather than to make a permanent redistribution. This is a very good idea, we are happy to take part in it, but be honest now that is not what the priority contribution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122417	I would like to confirm that, of course, this is not a new compensation between the municipalities. I would like to confirm that, but the result will be the same. The result is that if the KL and the government get a good deal, money will go from the economically strong municipalities, not because they have to be punished, you have to rejoice, there are municipalities where things are going well. But where things are going well, it is also because decisions have been made in here that you have made metro, you have done everything around the world, so there will be some growth and employment, and we welcome that. And then we say that you look at 1%, and then one percent can help create a more equal Denmark. And that is what makes us say that it is therefore a question of solidarity. I therefore agree that this is not, in the long run, a re-prioritisation of the municipalities' finances in a compensation agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122508	No, the difference is that if the rapporteur sat down, for example. together with the parties in the red bloc, and made a compensation agreement, then it would be solidarity. If the rapporteur is to negotiate a Finance Act with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and with the Conservative People's Party in the autumn, I seriously doubt that this priority contribution means that municipalities such as Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk, Rudersdal and other rich municipalities will deliver to the more poor and vulnerable municipalities, which I fully agree need a helping hand. That's not gonna happen. That's the problem. You take the money out of your pocket, and then you put it on a table where you have to agree with sir. Joachim B. Olsen and the Conservative People's Party on their distribution. Let us then sit down and make a compensation agreement, and then let us do away with the hopeless re-priority contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122556	This is really funny, because Enhedslisten was for a long time a support party to the former Social Democratic led government, and there was minus growth in the municipalities. Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance are supporting parties to a left-wing government, and things are really going very well in the municipalities, because now there has been plus growth in the municipalities. So the thing about sitting there saying that this isn't possible because there are some bad parties over there in the blue block that don't want to do this isn't gonna work out. Now, look, there has been plus growth in the municipalities' economy under the current government, and under the previous government there was minus growth. So it's going really well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122630	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122633	Thank you. After all, it has nothing to do with solidarity, feeding the dog with its own tail. That's what this whole exercise is all about, and that's what the Danish People's Party wants. I really think it is appalling to see the performance of the Danish People's Party in this matter. The government is supported in a purely theft by the municipalities, which cannot help but go beyond welfare. The municipalities are forced to terminate thousands of people by the end of June until resignation on 1 January 2017. There is a gross interference with local selfgovernment, but you have no idea what to do with it. You don't have a majority behind what you want. This is clear from the fact that one can only table a proposal for adoption with the government. I think it's shocking. I think it's very talentless. Can I just get the rapporteur's explanation on how to get into such an exercise without knowing what to do with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122736	Yes, the rapporteur can easily explain that. In fact, it is not true. That's not true. If the KL and the government manage to agree on this in the municipal agreement, no one is going to fire anyone or talk about not knowing what is going to happen. Then, as usual, it is under the present government and under previous governments. Then you make a municipal agreement, and that is what the municipalities have to work on when they have to budget for the year that comes. It's just like it used to be. And there we hope that a good solution will be found. Then, as to whether you are making a municipal equalisation or doing it here, I would say that a municipal equalisation does not create any more money either. It is, after all, the same money that is being moved across municipal boundaries; it is also with a re-priority contribution. So for that rhetoric that you're going to fire, that now you're cutting down and that it's giving you minus growth, I'd say it doesn't. So that is the money you are moving, whether you are doing it with a re-priority contribution or a municipal equalisation. Municipal equalisation, I agree, is better in the long run. You can do this in the short run. But it's all about the same thing. So the thing about minus growth and the fact that the municipalities do not know their economy is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122832	After all, we have the words of the National Association of Municipalities that there can be no good solution out of this. That is an evil solution, the President of the KL has said. What the Danish People's Party does is to stand on the side of the finance minister in the negotiations, and that is to give the finance minister a big club in hand, because the finance minister knows that if the municipalities are not right in the economic negotiations, then the club will be used; then it will be used in the financial negotiations. I find it disgraceful that the Danish People's Party, which wants to sell itself as the defender of welfare and the protector and friend of the elderly and the weak, is putting itself on the side of the Minister of Finance, a finance minister who has only one wish, and that is to knock welfare under the floorboards and to use the savings for tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513122935	Now I don't know if the Enhedslisten doesn't agree with each other. But not long ago I was invited to coffee by Enhedslisten, who said: "Come over now, and then we'll look at how to make a municipal equalization." And now the rapporteur is saying that if you just think about making a municipal equalisation, then you knock welfare down completely. Well, come on, that's not what this is about. When has the rapporteur ever heard KL come up with a proposal in which they ask: should we not do something more equalizing? Shouldn't we have a more equal Denmark? KL does not, because the large municipalities take up so much, also in that union. And it is also difficult to be an association of 98 municipalities and to have to look after everyone's interests. This is, of course, difficult, and that is why we sometimes have to stand up for something in the Folketing, and we do so, among other things. with the re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123017	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123020	After all, it is always a good idea to ask a question when you hear a rapporteur stand and say that this will be the case in the future after some political negotiations with both municipalities and then with the financial law parties. It ends up going like this, from there and there, and I am talking about the re-priority contribution, where DF says it will go to the most disadvantaged municipalities. One can, of course, look at which parties have then been brought together in the blue block behind its adoption proposal. It's pretty sparing. The rapporteurs who have been on the floor this morning have not supported this. That is why I have a question. The idea is to look at what happened next, the last time we had exactly the same situation and the same debate, namely about the re-prioritisation contribution that was rolled out in this year. How'd it go? It happened that the five municipalities with the highest tax base • Rudersdal, Hørsholm, Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Allerød are net winners of that exercise. Why should we even believe it when the Danish People's Party says that it is a question of favouring the most disadvantaged municipalities when, just before the turn of the year, the municipalities with the highest tax base were favoured?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123138	It is funny that the Social Democrats say that you should be absolutely sure what it is for. We have therefore just been through several hours and dealt with a motion for a resolution from the Social Democrat Party which said that the re-prioritisation contribution should last until 2019 and that the money should be returned to the municipalities. There wasn't a word about how to do it. There was exactly the same wording as the Danish People's Party and the government agree, namely that this must of course be done in a dialogue with KL. That is the approach we have to it. I am surprised that a question has now been asked from its place and that we should be able to guarantee what the money is to be used for when we have just had a motion for a resolution that did not take care of it, but only said that the money should be returned to the municipalities, which we agree with, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123219	Thank you. It's kind of a challenge to keep up with how the Danish People's Party defends itself in this case. I understand. It cannot be an easy situation to stand in, that is to say to have gone to elections for more welfare, but now add votes to the re-priority contribution. To put it mildly, this must be difficult. That is why we are fighting in all the municipalities in the country, both in the cities and in the rural areas and among those who have been the hardest. Everyone is fighting shoulder to shoulder against the re-priority contribution. All municipalities, including the rapporteur's own party, do so. Why do they do that? Because they do not believe at all in the promises made by DF. And DF has not yet answered that the promises were also there last year and were not delivered on it. Why do we have to believe you now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123303	It was delivered in the last year. I can say that in the past a really bad deal had been made by the KL, and that is actually what scares a little. There you came in and then you said that yes, it is very good that there will be a change of priority contribution. What was the price? What was the KL supposed to have? You said that the billions that used to go to the older area would have to cross the block. And it meant that where the elderly were, they were given less money because it went above the block. So, what did we go in there and do with the dignity billion? There we said that the money must, of course, follow the elderly where the elderly are. That is precisely why the money comes out where the elderly are. That is what frightens us a little, even when we had to vote in favour of the Socialist resolution before cementing it here in the years ahead. We want to see how this goes, so if KL still has the idea that you don't want a more equal Denmark. The Danish People's Party wants a more equal Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123346	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123351	Thank you. Well, that is because in his earlier speech the rapporteur expressed it in such a way that, in the rapporteur's view, the re-prioritisation contribution up to 2019 would consistently go completely to the municipalities. In other words, the re-priority contribution that we are getting will go back to the municipalities. Is that correct? That is how I saw the rapporteur in the previous debate we had.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123426	That is clearly the position of the Danish People's Party. But I would also like to stand here and be quite honest and so say that the agreement made with the government only applies for 2017 and it does not apply for 2018 and 2019. But, of course, we clearly have that position. For the Danish People's Party, it is very important that we are not locked up that there should therefore not be a parliamentary majority here in Parliament today, which will lock the government to the fact that there is a majority in the parliament that says that there must be a re-priority contribution. We would like that mandate to remain free.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123507	Thank you for that answer, because I see it as if it was only in 2017 that the agreement had been made that it should go back to the municipalities, but that there is no certainty that the Danish People's Party will, if you may say so, get its will through to the government, as I see it. But of course you will work on that as I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123532	Yes, of course we will. But what's important to us is what kind of exercise we're doing here. In other words, we do not want a re-prioritisation contribution for the sake of the re-prioritisation contribution; we want it because we want to move something politically. Then, of course, it is important for us to see if the re-priority contribution exercise now also brings the benefit that we expect it to have, and then, of course, we relate to it in relation to the 2018 Finance Act and the 2019 Finance Act. That is the mandate we want to leave open. We would have stuck to this if we had voted in favour of the Socialist resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123558	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123604	Thank you. The rapporteur is very concerned about the social democracy, and that is wonderful. It would be so nice if we were also quoted correctly. The rapporteur refuses to recognise that we are quite opposed to the re-prioritisation contribution. But let it go. I have attached myself to something else that the rapporteur has said, namely here in the end: well, things are going very well in the municipalities. But not many minutes ago, the rapporteur also said that some municipalities are so badly affected that they cannot provide a public service. I mean, both can't and can't be completely right. Then you have to choose. That is the reality, and that is why we have the problems we have with the re-prioritisation contribution. Then I would like to ask specifically: when the rapporteur says that if the municipalities cannot agree with the government on an agreement, then all the money will be put into the Finance Act, then I have to understand the rapporteur so that it is a signal from the Danish People's Party to the municipalities that they have to make an agreement with the government and that if they do not, you take the money anyway, and then they end up in the Finance Act. That's what it has to mean. That is what I would call gun democracy, where you put a gun to the fore by the municipalities and say: Make the deal, and if you do not, we will take the money and put it into the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123719	That's how the agreement system is screwed up. It is not new that this is the way it is. Then I would like to say to the one thing about quoting each other that I said, in relation to the fact that there has been plus growth in the municipalities, and I actually remember it literally: things are actually going very well. I did not say that things are going very well in relation to what kind of welfare you can provide out there. It was entirely in relation to the economy. And there has been plus growth in the municipalities, after there has been a change of government, in relation to the minus growth that was there before. So says Mr. Jeppe Bruus here in the Parliamentary Chamber: it is incredible that you cannot hear that Social Democracy is against a re-prioritisation contribution. I just want to repeat that Mr. Knox... Jeppe Bruus' finance rapporteur has said to Jyllands-Posten about the re-priority contribution: that is why I cannot give any guarantees as to what will happen in the future if there is a new red government. In other words, such a door is being held to keep the re-priority contribution, and that is probably why we had the resolution before that we had to cement the re-prioritisation contribution to 2019. It is fair that you want it, but stand by your policy now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123820	So the rapporteur can stand here all day and not answer questions and then refer to the Social Democracy. But you could also choose to answer the questions. The question is why the Danish People's Party is in favour of pulling the money out of the municipalities in order for the state to be able to distribute it more or less fairly. The fact is that the Danish People's Party cannot guarantee that that money cannot be spent on tax cuts or anything else in the years to come. That is the crux of the matter here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123851	It is the case that the Danish People's Party is here because we want to pursue politics. We think we have a Denmark that is not close enough to one another, a misguided Denmark. The Minister for Finance and the KL have to negotiate this, and the Social Democratic Party has in this way made an agreement that that agreement is voted for. If the Minister of Finance makes a good deal with KL, it will be voted through. It does, even if you actually make a bad deal with KL, and that's why we don't want to be locked on to what's going to happen in 2018 and 2019. Remember, then, that the Social Democratic Party has committed itself to voting in favour of the agreement made by the Minister for Finance with KL-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U. That's how it is. It is the contractual system that is: the government sits and represents the Folketing, and KL represents the 98 municipalities. Therefore, it is really important for the Danish People's Party that an agreement has been made with the government that you will work for the money to come back. I am also quite sure that the Minister for Finance has heard that it is important that we have a more equal Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123938	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513123958	Thank you. It is, of course, very much a repetition of the debate we have just had on the basis of a motion for a resolution, the subject of which was the re-priority contribution. That is why my speech here will be a few repetitions of previous points of view. We in the Left have made it very clear that the funds released from the re-priority contribution will not leave the public system. In 2016, the municipalities received 500 million. kr. extra, and in 2017 the funds will be returned to the municipalities through the Finance Act and the Economic Agreement with KL. In 2018 and 2019, the money will also be used for actions to strengthen the citizen-centric welfare of the public sector. So in many ways the new times in the municipalities after the years under the previous government with the Social Democracy at the head, which provided a service framework that was 3 billion. kr. less in the years 2012-2015. If anything remains after today's debate, it is of course how marvelous the socialist approach is in this debate. There is a motion for a resolution calling for a debate on how the re-prioritisation contribution should be used in the coming years, but now there is a distance from the re-prioritisation contribution. However, it must also be difficult for members of the Socialist Group to find their views in a situation where there has actually been a boost in the municipal service framework from 2015 to 2016. Let me also make it clear that, when we do not want to lock ourselves in on the fact that the municipalities will have the funds returned after 2017, it is, in my view, on the basis of a sensible principle that we should set the economic priorities for one year at a time. It would therefore be wrong to determine where exactly the money is needed in the years to come. It is not static, and it is important to take into account whether it is the elderly, health care, the children's area or something else that is most in need of a financial boost. We want to maintain that flexibility. In addition, I shall refer only to the proposal for adoption tabled jointly by the Danish People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124226	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124230	I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that the re-priority contribution is only one of the elements under negotiation when the government negotiates with the National Association of Municipalities on the economy of the municipalities for 2017. This means that if the municipalities, for example, are to be found. If the municipalities are not fully compensated for the increasing costs they have by receiving people fleeing from war, and if the municipalities are not fully compensated for the increasing number of older people, which means that there will also be a demographic feature, as it says, in relation to increasing costs, then it will mean that the municipalities will have to cut back anyway. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124324	I can fully confirm that there are many other things, other than the re-priority contribution, that will be included in the negotiations with the municipalities on what it looks like in the coming years. And that is why it is so important and, in fact, very good that today we have this debate on what are the opportunities for efficiency in the municipalities. And it is worth pointing out that in many areas a number of municipalities have found a different way of doing things and have thus made a better economy available to prioritise some of the economic challenges you have out there. And that is why I am in complete agreement with Mr. Rune Lund in that this discussion goes far beyond the re-priority contribution and is about the municipalities getting better at learning from each other and looking at how to optimise resource utilisation in municipal activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124414	I think that is also important to bring forward here, precisely that the re-prioritisation contribution is only, what should be said, part of the overall discussion. And that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the rapporteur of the Left guarantee that, at least in 2017, the municipalities will be able to maintain the level of service they have in 2016, in the sense that the increased workloads that are coming, for example. in relation to the increasing number of elderly people and the increasing number of refugees, must not go beyond the level of welfare? Can the rapporteur guarantee that it will be the Left's approach to the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124459	I have said many times in this Chamber that I am not going to give guarantees. However, I am actually convinced that the municipalities will be able to maintain, but also to expand their level of service by going in and looking at how they actually use resources today, and in this way, in fact, go much further in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution than the discussion we have only about the re-prioritisation contribution sets out and, at the very least, how best to respond to the service needs of the municipalities, which, of course, also vary. Well, things out there aren't static. It's like sir. Rune Lund believes that we should just keep things at the level they are now on exactly today. And then you can say a little treacherously that it is a good thing that it is on the basis of today and not under the previous government, as Mr. Rune Lund was a supporter. But what I think is worth highlighting is the municipalities that are really good at looking at how they can get more out of the money. So let me just mention Copenhagen, for example, which has collected the administrative tasks and IT under one roof and saved money; Hjørring, who has saved money via e-commerce; and Faxe, who has saved money through better property management. And that is how there are many examples of municipalities getting more out of the resources they have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124611	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124613	Service level, resource optimisation, efficiency. The elderly out there, who do not change their sheets and who must lie in their own, excuse me, urine, because they have incontinence, as we have heard, and the educators and educators who have 20 children in opening and closing hours, know what all those concepts mean. This means that public servants must run faster and provide less care for the elderly and children. Left mayors, conservative mayors have been out to say clearly: we have made things more efficient year after year. All low-hanging fruits are picked. Now we're cutting into the core welfare. That's what's gonna happen. The cuts you want to make are going to hit the elderly. It's less visits from the home helper. There are fewer adults in the day institutions. It is new rights that must be taken from the people affected by disability. Can the rapporteur guarantee that this is not what is going to happen, that these are not the stories we want to hear in 2017, 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124727	Perhaps it is in contrast to the rapporteur, but I am very confident that the task will be carried out in the municipalities and that they will be able to provide the services that their citizens need. I completely disagree with the fact that there is nothing more to be done in the municipalities in terms of redeploying, in terms of efficiency, in terms of improving, in terms of showing good management and the like. Let me just remind the rapporteur that the municipalities themselves have indicated that since 2011 they have made them more efficient for somewhere between 2.4 billion. kr. and 3 billion. kr. A year, and they're not done with that. Of course, other priorities can be set, and I think that is a prerequisite for maintaining a very good level of service out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124819	And what is the efficiency that the rapporteur is talking about, among other things? Meaning? This has meant that 5 million home help hours have been cut away. 5 million home help hours have been cut away during a period when the group of elderly people in need of help has grown. You said we had to carry out all sorts of reforms because there were more elderly people and costs would rise. That's what you told the Danes. What happened? Instead, you have cut back on help for the elderly, and that is what will continue to happen in the future. It's dishonest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124859	I'm just gonna say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, that there is more money for service in 2016 in the municipalities than there was in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124906	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124913	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur and, I assume, the Left too, and probably the government too, have great confidence that the municipalities will be able to provide the services they need to the citizens. We can then see that the rapporteur must have mistrust that the municipalities can manage the economy effectively, and that is why we want to impose a re-priority contribution on them. I must also ask the rapporteur whether he has confidence in KL-President Martin Damm, the rapporteur's own party colleague, who is, of course, opposed to the view that it is completely without consequences to introduce this re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513124958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125001	Out of this debate today we really have to say that there has been total confusion about the Socialist policy in this area. A few moments ago, we would be debating the use of the amount that comes from the re-priority contribution. There was an entire motion for a resolution tabled by three former Socialist mayors. Now we have a representative of the parliamentary group who says that we are opposed to the re-prioritisation contribution. So what is really Social Democracy's policy in this area remains. I understand if you find it difficult to find your legs in this debate, because it was the previous government that cut the service framework for the municipalities by 3 billion. kr. for 2012-2015. Then it must also be difficult to see that the municipalities now have more money for service in 2016, than they had in 2015. That is the starting point for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125102	I think I misunderstood the concept here. I actually thought I was asking questions, and then the rapporteur had to answer. So now I am just trying again: how can it be that one trusts the municipalities to be able to provide services to the citizens, but does not have confidence that the municipalities can manage their finances effectively?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125125	I am actually confident that the municipalities can manage their economy effectively, but it is a necessity that it is part of the economic framework that is available in the public sector in general and in the well-being of the Danes. I think it is perfectly reasonable for us to demand that some money be found in the municipalities, that it be made more effective and that we discuss with the municipalities how it can be done. And as I mentioned earlier in my reply to another rapporteur today, there are very good opportunities in the municipalities to get some money. We can see that. They themselves have provided that is actually possible. I would just appeal to the municipalities to look at each other a little more in terms of their priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125210	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next person to take the platform is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125220	First, I'd like to read some poetry. It's a grit of Piet Hein, it's called the State and we: For every thing you should be allowed to do,/for every coin to the tax sum/buttons of the alburum/life in us needs./The state makes itself big and wide that it makes us want the space./During the victory walk of power/voxes the people down. ▪ The key here is the one with the sum/buttons of the tax for each coin of the alburum/life in us needs. I could also have quoted from the Internationale on the sharp claw of the tax, which tears the working class. It's a verse you don't seem to be singing with much strength anymore. In any case, the working class parties here in the Folketing are very much in favour of the tax being high, because it is very good to tax the workers hard. I say this here because in a question about the economy of the municipalities we do not escape the fact that the municipalities are part of a society as a whole, and society as a whole in Denmark is burdened by the fact that we have the highest taxes in the world. Occasionally, the left shares happily on social media statements that in Denmark there is not the world's highest tax on labour income, and then they say: Ha, there you can see, we do not have the world's highest taxes in Denmark. But the working Dane does not only pay income tax. The working Dane gets an amount back after income tax, which then has to be paid the world's highest VAT, the world's highest registration tax on cars, some of the world's highest real estate taxes, etc. etc. There are excise duties which exist in Denmark and which do not exist in other countries. Together it becomes the world's highest tax burden, and it hurts the Danish economy, the competitiveness of companies and the competitiveness of employees, and that is unfair. That is why we are in favour of limiting public consumption in Denmark. It is also because we know from a committee of experts set up by the previous government that public consumption in Denmark is higher than it needs to be. The public sector can be more efficient, and so can the municipalities, and then citizens will be able to keep a larger share of their income without the service becoming worse because it is simply produced more efficiently. That is what the municipalities are talking about. That is what it is all about when we talk about the priority contribution and the municipalities, namely that the municipalities have to deliver their contribution to making the public sector in Denmark more efficient, so that instead of spending the money on inefficiency, for example, we can spend the money on. to reduce the tax burden on citizens and businesses. That is why we do not support this proposal for adoption which has been read out today. We do not support the pessimistic view that it is going wrong in the municipalities if they are to make a contribution to the efficiency of their efforts in Denmark. We have our own proposal for adoption, and it is essentially a repeat of the proposal for adoption that we also made in the debate back in March, and I read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament states that in 2017-2019, as a result of the municipal re-priority contribution, released funds will be used to support the future municipal economy, for example. through increased service and higher employment. Priority must be given to the use of funds where the need is greatest. The actual implementation takes place in the context of the negotiations on the local economy and the financial law negotiations. • V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125610	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are some brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125622	It is clear again today that the Blue Block does not agree on what is going to happen with this re-prioritisation contribution. There is a majority in favour of the money being taken from the municipalities, but there is no majority in favour of how the money should actually end up being spent. That is why I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur what the Liberal Alliance will vote if it ends up being a model like that, Mr President. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party suggests where there is a redistribution from some rich municipalities, for example. the municipalities of northern Zealand, to municipalities such as: Guldborgsund Municipality. Is it a model that the Liberal Alliance will support, or is it a model that the Liberal Alliance will not support under any circumstances? Where does the Liberal Alliance really lie here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125713	It is not the policy of the Liberal Alliance that we should increase the compensation between the municipalities in Denmark, but how we will vote for such a proposal depends entirely on what else is included in the package, the conciliation, the agreement on the Finance Act or the 2025 plan that we have, hopefully, negotiated with the other blue parties, also like the Enhedslisten, if Enhedslisten wants to be included. That is how it is in a debate like this. If we are satisfied with our wishes in some of the areas that we think are very important, it may well be that we can also support some of the wishes that the Danish People's Party may make, or that the government may make, or that Conservatives may make. So I can't tell you now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125754	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125758	So it has to be understood that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen would like to take money from municipalities in Nordsjælland and give to municipalities such as Denmark. Guldborgsund, if only mr. Ole Birk Olesen can get something back, for example. if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen can receive top tax relief in connection with the forthcoming Finance Act? But it must also be understood that if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen doesn't get top tax relief, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen does not help to create a redistribution system which the Danish People's Party has presented today and which we do not know the details of, but thus a redistribution system which we have heard DF present today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125836	If we are negotiating a future 2025 plan, that is to say a plan that will last ten years in the future, for example. At one point there is a bag of money on the table, which is the implementation of all reform measures and scope, and so on, and that bag of money is, let us say, 50 billion. kr., and Dansk Folkeparti then says that they want to spend some of the 50 billion. kr. to some specific municipalities, and if it is a very crucial point for the Danish People's Party that we can reach the goal, and the Danish People's Party is willing, in return, to meet the Liberal Alliance that the top tax should be relieved, I will not deny that this can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125914	Thank you. Then there was a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513125919	I just have to correct something that the rapporteur says, namely that the Enhedslisten should want the highest possible tax burden and should want to raise the tax for ordinary people. Well, that's notoriously wrong. The tax proposals we have put forward over and over again have, of course, been about reducing the tax on low incomes. Then, on the other hand, we would like to increase the tax on some of the work-free incomes, for example. return on speculation and securities. I think that is quite fair if it is to pay off to work. So it's simply misinformation. The rapporteur then talks about the fact that the Danes are paying a lot of tax, and that is true. I don't think anyone ever said we don't. It is, of course, because we have arranged for some of the things that are user-paid in other countries to be taxed at home. This is a very good idea for the vast majority of Danes. It involves the redistribution of wealth, which is otherwise unfortunate and misdistributed. That is the way we protect ourselves and protect our freedom. It means we can go to the hospital if we get sick, it means we have something to live on if we get unemployed. That is sensible, that is what we have done in Denmark. That's what you don't like in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130027	I note how the vote is taken in this Chamber, and during the years when I have followed Danish politics, when Enhedslisten has been a member of the Folketing, there have been several increases in taxes and taxes which have also affected people with low incomes. This has been done in the form of environmental taxes, in the form of other taxes, etc. I do not remember that the Enhedslisten has ever voted against the increases in taxes which have also affected people with low incomes. Conversely, there have been proposals here in the Folketing, which have been adopted, to reduce taxes on people with low incomes, for example. the introduction of the employment allowance, the increase in the employment allowance, etc., and as far as I remember, the Enhedslisten has always voted against those proposals. So that is what I note, namely that the Enhedslisten in this Chamber is voting for increases in taxes and taxes on people with small incomes and against lowering taxes and taxes on people with small incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130125	Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130127	Well, it's just factually wrong. When we helped to introduce some taxes on the first financial law we made in the last government period, we compensated the low-income groups. We did, among other things. with the green cheque that the Conservatives are now going to abolish. I've also heard the Liberal Alliance pee in that direction. Every time there is a Finance Act I know that the rapporteur has been sitting down here we have put forward funding proposals where we have also lowered taxes. So there have been plenty of times when we have voted to reduce taxes. The problem is, of course, that the fiscal policy pursued in this Parliament, unfortunately on both sides of the House for a number of years, has increased inequality in our society and reduced the freedom it also offers to have a strong welfare society, and it is clear that we do not support this on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130212	I have to say again that I am only looking at how Enhedslisten votes in the Chamber, not what it says in Enhedslisten's programme of principles that you would do if you had 90 mandates. And when I look at how Enhedslisten votes in the Chamber, it is true that in relation to a certain tax increase in some green taxes, a green cheque has been introduced, but there have also been other tax increases during the last parliamentary term, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. So I do not remember tax increases for which Enhedslisten has not voted, and they have also hit people with low incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130251	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130310	Thank you. In the alternative, we do not have a fundamental attitude towards the level of public expenditure, including municipal expenditure. However, as we see it, the municipalities are currently in a situation where they need more money, not less. Over a number of years the economy of the municipalities has been harnessed by cuts and tax stops, which means that many municipalities have already cut to the bone. At the same time, more refugees are currently coming to Denmark than usual, and refugees and family reunifications result in more spending in the early years of massive involvement in education and integration. But we also know that if we invest in new citizens now, they will in the long term be a gain for society, both socially, culturally and economically, and therefore there must be more money for more people. There must be more money for educators, teachers, etc. when the municipalities are to receive these new citizens. They must have a place in institutions and schools which we already know are under pressure on the manning. More interpreters and further training and the treatment of those who come here with trauma and other sufferings must be available. In short, we need to invest in people and we need to invest in people. The vast majority of the costs of integration lie out in the municipalities, and therefore it is such a special form of bad timing that the government now wants to withdraw money from the municipalities and right now create more uncertainty for the municipalities. In the Folketing we are all agreed, perhaps with the exception of a single party, that much better integration should be achieved in Denmark. During the recent two- and three-way negotiations, the government, like the Alternative and many other parties and organisations, called on the municipalities to learn from each other. If the municipalities are to be able to act on the call to learn from each other and implement the projects that work, then it requires profits and room for manoeuvre. And the municipalities do not have that right now, although they want to do the job and have high ambitions. Therefore, it is also crucial for the alternative that in the coming years the municipalities are not regulated by the budget law, which makes it impossible for them to transfer money from year to year and which involves penalties for budget overruns. It requires a room for action, both economic and bureaucratic, to invest in people if it is to be done long-term. That is why we believe that municipalities should now be compensated for the extra tasks and investments in people that provide long-term economic sustainability. I said that we are not in principle in relation to the level of public expenditure in general, although we therefore believe that the municipalities have an increased financial need right now. But we are in principle about something, and that is the importance of municipal self-government. And local self-government and democracy only work if we respect the right of municipalities to plan and prioritise and implement local politics on which local politicians have been elected. This means that the municipalities know what they have to budget with. The re-prioritisation contribution is the latest of a number of measures that have reduced municipal autonomy and the municipalities' right to prioritize. I believe that there is no confidence in the municipalities, that is, once they receive money and then have them taken away again, so that the government can give priority to them as if they do not know what is best for their citizens. We think that construction is completely wrong. In the eyes of the alternative, we must have less state and more society, and this means that solutions must be found close to the citizens in the municipalities, where we know best. That is why we also hope that the government will take the objections of the opposition and the municipalities seriously and abolish the re-priority contribution. We hope that the municipalities will have an economic space to invest in people to ensure economic and social sustainability in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130733	A number of hours have been spent on the debate on the re-prioritisation contribution, which is why I will be relatively brief and say that we are radically opposed to this re-prioritisation contribution. We do not think it benefits anything; we think it is a wrong way of promoting efficiency in the municipal sector and a wrong way of deciding how the efficiency is to be applied. We recognise that there is a need for it is always there to do things better and that there is a potential to do so, but this is not the way to ensure a good, efficient public sector in Denmark, and we therefore also support the proposal for adoption put forward by several other parties that think like us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130818	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513130833	I think it is a very good thing that we should have this debate on the question, even a little as a follow-up to the debate we had an hour and a half ago on the resolution tabled by the Socialists. But it is also a little telling that we will then see the proposals for adoption that have been made today; not least, what remains for me is to see what it really is for a policy but gets from the bourgeois side. And the answer flapping about something in the wind. We have the Danish People's Party and the government, which agree that at least in 2017 money must be spent on the core welfare when you have re-priorityd. This means that once you have taken some money, you want to promise that they will get enough of the municipalities again. But what about the government's parliamentary basis ^ Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives? Because at least they're not going to give money to the core welfare. It must therefore be said that this is almost an absurd situation. We are sitting with a finance minister down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, who really does not have a majority in favour of the policy he proposes and, in fact, cannot give a clear answer to what kind of agreement will be reached in a month and a half with the municipalities and Danske Regions, but who cannot give a clear picture or a reference to where you will land with the Financial Act in the autumn. Because, as we saw last year, will it be the homeowners who will receive tax relief? Do you want those with the biggest cars to have them a little cheaper? Or are we actually affording some of the money for welfare as well? Yes, you can say that it is fine to have some great ideas on the part of the Danish People's Party, but when it comes down to it, it lands on the fact that you put votes to spend the money on lowering registration fees, so that the most expensive cars become cheaper, and so that the homeowners get a tax relief. At the same time, there are bourgeois parties that will probably also have been relieved in the top tax. So in the end, it will be the children, the elderly, the weakest, those who really need the welfare that will pay a large part of the bill. That is why it is paradoxical that Mr. René Christensen and also Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen are pleading for this proposal that in 2017 it can indeed be expected that the re-priority contribution will be used for welfare when the truth is that the last year blew heavily in the wind, how one ended up spending that money. If the government's policy can then be applied in a large number of other areas, it is clear that it will be a erosion of the welfare that we know today, and that is to say, worse conditions for the weakest and more favourable conditions for those who already have plenty. Then I have to say that I am also a little bit surprised by what it is that is actually going to be done with municipal self-government, because it is de facto being put out of the way of self-government. I also welcome the fact that we have seen a development, and if I am going to put a little curl on it, then I am delighted that the Socialists have moved from where they were last summer, when they voted in favour of a re-priority contribution in the Committee on Finance, to the fact that they have actually found their way back into the red bloc, I would like to say where they are now backing up. But it must be said that the Danish People's Party has also moved even further on the flank, trying to make linguistic statements that it is not quite what we want, as we did in relation to the Socialist motion for a resolution, B 89, we discussed here before this proposal. But when it comes to reality, you are not willing to bite to fuck. So I have to say that everything in the sun and moon suggests that what we have today and the opportunity we have when we have a municipal agreement here just before the summer break will be an agreement with a re-priority contribution. It is an uncertainty for the municipalities, which will be planning for the coming year in August-September, that they do not actually know how much money they will have available for the coming year. This means that, as early as September, massive savings will be made in the municipalities. Then you have to sit with your fingers crossed and hope that the Liberal Alliance may not have top tax concessions this time, maybe not have lower registration fees, and that the Conservative People's Party should not have any relief for homeowners either. But if they have to, it will be at the expense of welfare. The money is going to go from the municipalities. But it has to be said that with the approval of the government and the Danish People's Party, it is quite clear that it may well be that you have some intentions, but at least you do not have coverage for your parliamentary majority. And it is paradoxical that we are going to have a proposal for adoption on the basis of this debate which, in fact, does not give the government support for the economic policy it intends to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131336	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131340	I only have one. The rapporteur is very much aware of the fact that there has also been a motion for a resolution in the past. It was precisely that the re-priority contribution should be cemented up to 2019. It was a motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group. Then it came out during the debate that that was not really what was meant. It was believed that it should go away, and I understand SF means that too. Is the SF so well aware of where it is that the Social Democratic Party stands? Before I told you what the Financial Rapporteur for Social Democracy has said. Now it is Mette Frederiksen: Mette Frederiksen has no plans to continue a re-priority contribution, she stressed to Politiken, but she will not guarantee that if she becomes Prime Minister she will scrap the savings in the municipalities. Can you be sure in the SF what you are entering into in cooperation with the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131429	In fact, I think it is quite clear what the Socialists are saying today. I think there was some confusion last summer, but I am very pleased with the political line that has now been taken in the Social Democratic Party, which has actually been clearly stated, as I also heard the Socialist Financial Rapporteur clearly say earlier today, that there is no desire for a re-prioritisation contribution. What is rather unclear to me, however, is that we are now hearing Mr. René Christensen stands to say that the Danish People's Party would actually like to be a part of abolishing the re-prioritisation contribution.This is almost what we hear and in the proposal for adoption presented here today it says that in 2017 one will at least try to limit the savings on welfare on the basis of the re-prioritisation contribution, but 2018 and 2019 one will not even deal with in the Danish People's Party. Then that criticism sounds a little hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131514	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131516	It is unbelievable that this is how you try to shoot the Danish People's Party by saying that we want to get rid of the re-priority contribution. If you really want something, you should say that the Danish People's Party will retain the priority contribution. So, listen: we say yes to the re-priority contribution because we think it is an opportunity to have a more equal Denmark. That's the way it is. That's where we disagree. Then I just want to say that this has nothing to do with the fact that before last summer the Social Democrats thought otherwise. It's from March 9th. There Mette Frederiksen did not think that she could guarantee that there would be no cuts in the municipalities if she became Prime Minister that is the prime minister candidate from the Social Democratic Party. And then we stand here today and have to hear that some rapporteurs can guarantee that they will not. But the Prime Minister's candidate from the Social Democratic Party cannot guarantee it. Is SF sure you have a good and loyal partner about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131600	Yeah. What I do not feel very comfortable about, however, is the way in which the Danish People's Party acts. You want to make more redistribution between the municipalities... I hear the Danish People's Party say "and I agree, but what happened to the re-priority contribution when it was implemented and rolled it out?" More money was given to the richest municipalities. How was the rest of the finance bill you made last fall? Where were reliefs given? On the registration fee on the most expensive cars and to the homeowners! And you hear blue block talking massively about top tax relief. That's what you could call redistribution that wants something. It is just a redistribution that I certainly cannot vouch for. I wonder why the Danish People's Party can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131637	Thank you, sir. Jonas Dahl. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131645	The most important and most important thing, when you talk about local economy, is that the economy is well. There is the status of our overall economy, that Denmark's growth is in lug gear, that we stand to get one of the lowest growth rates in OECD countries • the fourth-fifth lowest growth in the next 5 years • and that, compared to the surrounding countries, we have lower growth than they have. Most recently, Germany has published their GDP figures, which show significantly higher GDP growth than we have in Denmark. So if you really want to do something good for municipal welfare, if you really want the municipalities to do well, you have to look at how the economy is getting better, so we get a growth in GDP, and so we also get the economy to finance the welfare costs and also demographic costs, which must naturally increase, because there are more older people and because of the pressure that came after 21,000 refugees came to Denmark last year. So again, if you want to ensure a proper level of community welfare, we need to carry out some reforms in Danish society that ensure that there is labour available and that people want to invest in jobs in Denmark. Therefore, the theme of such a question debate as we have today should be: how do we organize society in such a way that there will be some more jobs in Denmark and more taxpayers Denmark, which can pay for the welfare that we still want to safeguard, so that we have a well-functioning society and a cohesion force in the years ahead? What's it gonna take? There must be reforms so that work can always pay off. We need to put the treasure at the bottom and the top. We need to create a better business environment by removing taxes and taxes so that it is better worth investing in jobs in Denmark. We need to make sure that the public sector is redesigned so that we look more closely at the digitalisation and how some private actors can come in and solve some tasks, so that we have a better working environment and, for example, a less sick absence. So there is a whole palette of different activities and initiatives to be taken to ensure the foundations for proper welfare in the municipalities. So the whole debate should have been reversed in relation to many of the speeches that have been made here today, because there should have been a focus on providing animals, that is, the people who finance the welfare society we have today, instead of looking solely at how to spend money in the welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131923	When the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, was on the platform, he said that he could well imagine an agreement where some money was taken from rich North Zealand municipalities and then gave to poorer municipalities if the Liberal Alliance could at the same time gain some concessions on top tax. Is that a logic with which the Conservative People's Party agrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513131950	You have to judge that as a party. I have said what the framework is for our equalisation policy, and that is that you have to drive according to objective criteria. We want to do something for the elderly, for the children, where there is a need for help; not in the municipalities where you do well enough and where you spend plenty of money, because you shouldn't upholster people either. So we only have objective criteria. We don't look at geography, we don't look at the political governance in the municipalities. I hear many other parties do that all the time, compared to how they try to target the money around. We have only one purpose, and that is to ensure proper core welfare in the municipalities, and we will help to balance that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132026	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132028	I heard it as if the Conservative People's Party wanted to help take money from, for example. rich municipalities in Nordsjælland and then give to poorer municipalities, it could be Guldborgsund. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132041	It has to be understood that we need to have better run municipalities, we need to focus on citizen-close welfare, and we need to focus on having a single purpose in the municipalities, and it is to ensure that the best possible service is provided at the lowest possible cost, so that we also save some tax dollars for companies and citizens, so that we can have a better and freer life. Then we can target the compensation that we have for the municipalities that need more support for the elderly and children and schools etc. And it's very different geographically, you can't just mention x number of municipalities ditten or the date place. You have to go in and see how they do it, and then, of course, you should not punish the municipalities that do it well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132122	Thank you to the rapporteur. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Sorry, there is another brief comment that came on at the last minute. Sir. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132135	In fact, I have very much respect for the honesty with which the Conservative rapporteur puts the view in relation to the re-priority contribution. It is quite reasonable to have a political disagreement, and so we have, and I think there should be room for that. But I would like to hear: when the Conservative People's Party is now in favour of the re-prioritisation contribution, what do we have of wishes in relation to the Finance Act? It is clear, of course, and also quite obvious, that there are political differences between us on this point, but are there again top tax concessions to which the re-priority contribution is intended to be used, or are they registration fees? Can the Conservative rapporteur give a bit of cover to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132212	In other words, our approach to this is that when you have a re-priority contribution, it is a real re-prioritisation, and that is why we cannot support proposals that say that immediately you just have to give the money to the municipalities and there must be a debate on that. Within the world we live in, it is about us thinking that the municipalities can do better. We can do some best practice; we can make sure that some private people solve some tasks; we can manage the costs much better than it is being done; and so we can make some methods at all to ensure that there is less sickness absence. Why, for example, do we have to do this? be greater absenteeism in the municipal sector compared to in the private sector? We can spend the money much better, and in that way we can get the same welfare for less money, and then the citizens can get some of the money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132249	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132251	I do not think we disagree that the municipalities can certainly do better and that they can lower sick leave. The question is, of course, what we need the money for. But can the Conservative rapporteur elaborate on what the Conservative People's Party wants to use the re-prioritisation that has then taken place when the money has been taken from the municipalities? What might the conservatives think of spending the money on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132314	This must depend on a debate, but we want to make Denmark richer and how to make Denmark richer? This is done by continuing the reform trail, by making it more attractive to work and by ensuring that companies want to invest in Danish society. Those are the key words. So no more money is needed for public welfare, because we cannot afford that in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132332	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The Minister for Finance does not wish to speak, but Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for a second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132356	I have to admit that I find it a little regrettable that the Minister for Finance is not taking the floor, because there is part of the debate here that we have not been fully resolved, namely that the government does not have a majority in favour of the policy that the government would like to pursue. There is a majority to cut the municipalities' economy, to take 2.4 billion. kr. from the municipalities per year, but there is no majority in relation to what that money is then used for. We know that the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance would like to spend them on top tax concessions. We have a proposal from DF and the government that they should go to some sort of redistribution that is not defined. But it sails completely, in relation to what you need the money for, which a blue majority in here would like to take from the municipalities. In addition, however, it has been an interesting debate today, and it is also a debate which has taken place in the light of the very large demonstrations that took place yesterday across the country. Over 20,000 people demonstrated in 74 municipalities and said: we want more and not less welfare. And it is also a debate that shows that it is necessary to continue the pressure on the government and also continue the pressure on the municipalities to ensure that we get an agreement that is not bad in the context of the negotiations on the economy of the municipalities that are currently taking place and which are about the economic situation in the municipalities in 2017. Now is the time for pressure, now is the time for pressure on the government, and that is also why I am glad that a united opposition consisting of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF, the Socialists and the Radical Left clearly says in the motion for a resolution that has been tabled: we do not want any re-priority contribution; we do not want any cuts; we do not want any deterioration. That is what is left of today's debate. And what is also lacking is that in the time that is coming here, the next month when the negotiations are running, it is important that we put the maximum pressure so that we can have an agreement that is not bad and that will mean that we will avoid billions of cuts in the municipalities in 2017. In Denmark we can afford welfare. We need more and not less welfare. We can find the money for welfare if we just take them where they are. We know that Danes in tax havens store between 100 and 150 billion. kr. We know that it will be worth 3-5 billion. kr. extra in the treasury if we taxed that money. Yesterday, we saw that it was argued by the government that new bombers would be bought at a cost of 1 billion. kr. This piece will cost between 80 and 100 billion to bombers over the next 20 to 30 years. kr. to operate and maintain. There's money for welfare in this country. It's just that we have to take the money where they are; take them in the sensible places and use them in the sensible places. So we need more and not less welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132657	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 17 May 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132744	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513132754	Thank you. The alternative has proposed a parliamentary decision to introduce a 2-year entrepreneurial benefit. The alternative has also proposed a parliamentary resolution establishing an international entrepreneurship programme with two associated international entrepreneurship houses. It is, of course, the case that the two proposals are now being dealt with together, and that is why, in my reply, I would also like to take both of them with me and make a statement about the government's position on both of them. With regard to the proposal for a 2-year entrepreneurial benefit, the government is invited to introduce a benefit equal to 80%. of a normal daily allowance rate with associated advice, sparring and mentoring. It is also proposed that the expected 20 per cent savings should be made. of the normal daily allowance rate must be used to co-finance advice, sparring and mentoring. In the past, there has been a similar system of entrepreneurship benefits. The scheme was closed in 1998 because it did not work as intended. Entrepreneurship simply did not help create healthy and sustainable businesses. The performance gave a particular competitive advantage to the entrepreneurs who started up businesses with a service compared to other new and, for that matter, also existing companies. Moreover, with regard to entrepreneurs, many fell back into unemployment after the benefit ceased, and some actually also received a substantial VAT and tax debt. As a result, the former entrepreneurial service actually served as an unhealthy state aid that artificially kept non-competitive companies alive. Experience from the 1990s points to the need to be very careful in setting up general schemes to provide public support for long-term unemployed people wishing to start up their own businesses. That is why the government cannot support the proposal put forward by the alternative. The motion for a resolution on the creation of an international entrepreneurship programme calls on the government to establish in concrete terms two international entrepreneurship houses with space for 200 entrepreneurs each and associated advice and sparring from entrepreneurship experts. It is proposed that 100 international work and travel grants should be distributed annually to particularly promising young Danish entrepreneurial talents. In addition, it is proposed that 100 work and residence permits be issued annually to particularly promising international entrepreneurs, who will also receive an initial capital of DKK 250,000. Each. Overall, I believe that the intentions behind the proposal can be sensible in many ways. But we also have to bear in mind that there is no provision, I think, for any kind of funding of the proposal. After all, this government attaches the utmost importance to the link between the expenditure we have and the revenue that comes in. At the same time, the proposals from the Alternative have considerably overlapped with existing private and public initiatives. Private entrepreneurial environments in Denmark are booming, and this is very welcome. We see in these years that many different private actors offer suitable office communities to both Danish and international entrepreneurs, in some places also with different opportunities for sparring associated. Therefore, it is difficult to see the need for the state to create international entrepreneurship houses, which will, of course, compete with private offers. In relation to travel grants to Danish entrepreneurs, it is true that we need internationally oriented entrepreneurs who think globally from the beginning. However, we already have various programmes to help Danish entrepreneurs into the world today. Recently, I myself was involved in launching the Danish Bridge network, which among other things. to help Danish entrepreneurs access networks in Silicon Valley, where they can hopefully be able to attract new knowledge and for that matter also capital. In addition, there is a programme such as Erasmus for young entrepreneurs, where, as a Danish entrepreneur, you can come out and learn from another European entrepreneur. It is therefore possible for the most ambitious entrepreneurs to acquire the necessary knowledge and experience to start a business. In addition, the distribution of 100 work and travel grants per year will also lead, I would say, to a significant bureaucratic model without guaranteeing any significant positive economic impact. If we look at the attraction of foreign entrepreneurs, in many ways the idea is also exciting, but there is already a pilot scheme called Start-up Denmark to attract foreign entrepreneurs. I think that any increased effort should await the evaluation of the existing pilot scheme running approx. A year and a half more. Against this background, the government considers that there is no basis for further work on the establishment of entrepreneurship houses, work and travel grants and more residence permits for foreign entrepreneurs. For the same reason, the government cannot support the two motions for resolutions tabled. However, I would also like to signal very clearly here, when dealing with the two motions for resolutions, that the whole question of entrepreneurship is crucial for Denmark, which is why I also acknowledge the fact that the debate has been raised. As I mentioned earlier, and as I have clarified in various contexts, I also believe that further entrepreneurship initiatives need to be taken. It is my intention that in the autumn, the government will present new and targeted proposals that will help to strengthen our entrepreneurial culture in Denmark, not least in order to ensure that the entrepreneurs who start up will be able to scale up their business. There, in relation to the many global opportunities that exist in a digital world, I think it is a very, very important issue to put on the political agenda. With these comments, I would like to say that we cannot support the proposals, but that does not mean that the debate is not important. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133417	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133424	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister, also for sharing our attention to entrepreneurship, and especially here in relation to international entrepreneurship. First of all, I would like to comment on what the Minister said, namely that there was no funding allocated for this. To this I would say that the Minister can also see in this reply from the Ministry of Finance to a curious soul in the Finance Committee that funding has been provided. But you can disagree with that. But it was just important for us to tell you that for this whole big package, of which this is a small part, there was full funding even overfinancing. What I would like to ask is in connection with the entrepreneurship scheme for unemployed people, which was indeed closed in 1998. This is precisely a further development in which the good experiences from Norway, from Sweden, from Germany etc. have been taken into account. and put them into this scheme, which is about the whole process, and which supports the entrepreneurial service itself. So does the Minister not agree that, after all, we could learn from the experience, not only from those we have ourselves from the past, but also from other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133530	My comments on financing are based on what the motions for resolutions say. I admit that the alternative has presented an entrepreneurial initiative which contains exciting elements, which I have also had the opportunity to discuss with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, but the agreement then stops when it comes to the way it is financed. It must be said that there is room for improvement. I note that, in order to be diplomatic, it is relatively short, and that is probably not necessarily 1:1 in relation to the previous model. But I still do not think that what the alternative is proposing here will be what is needed. I still have the concerns that I expressed in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133621	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133623	I'm just gonna set aside the funding to concentrate on this. Will the Minister be willing to look at the good experiences of our neighbouring countries, where people are also concerned about strengthening entrepreneurship and where people go from being job-seekers to job-seekers? Is that something the Minister will look at, also in relation to the Minister's proposal on entrepreneurship, which will come later, so just look at what we are supporting the entrepreneurial culture and not holding people in control systems as job seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133658	Yes, I do, and it is indeed some initiatives that I have taken a long time before this debate. I can say that in the autumn of a Nordic Council of Ministers in Copenhagen, which I hosted, I myself asked that the Norwegian Minister for Innovation, the Norwegian Minister for Industry, in connection with the participation in our Nordic Council of Ministers, gave a paper on what initiatives had been taken in Norway, not least what is called Innovasjon Norway. I am very concerned about some of the interesting ideas that have been put into effect by Norwegian, and I am of the opinion that there is certainly reason to listen to what is happening, not least in Denmark's vicinity, and that is why I will also be inspired by other countries in the project I will be taking in the autumn. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133754	Thank you, and the next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133758	Thank you. I got a little curious when the minister said I think those were the words "unhealthy state aid." Wouldn't the Minister like to elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133809	Indeed, I merely said in my speech that what one could see from the last system was that, as an entrepreneur, one could get a benefit to start up and that some of the companies with which one would then have to compete could suffer. I do not think that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133827	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133830	Does the Minister think that all so-called liberal professions should be completely free and not receive State aid from schemes of one kind or another? Because then I think we have quite a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133849	Now, I think it depends a little on how we look at aid schemes. There are both taxes and charges which may be differentiated in relation to different industries. It is true, then, that a wide range of behavioural initiatives have been taken by governments, cross-cutting. However, precisely in relation to the specific proposal, we can see from the experience of the 1990s that it was decided not to carry it forward for the reasons I mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133917	Thank you, Minister. And the first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513133935	Thank you. The alternative, with the two motions for resolutions B 132 and B 133, puts the conditions for entrepreneurs on the agenda, and that is important. This is an important debate because entrepreneurship contributes fundamentally to the development of our society. I also believe that all parties here in the Folketing agree with the positive importance of entrepreneurship. For me, it makes very good sense for us to take the discussion on how to ensure a better framework for entrepreneurship now and in the future and for all the entrepreneurial young people and potential entrepreneurs who are walking around out there. Before I turn to the two motions for resolutions, I would just like to emphasise a few points. After all, the Socialists have contributed so much to improving the framework and conditions of entrepreneurs, and we want to create the right conditions for a healthy and sustainable entrepreneurial environment. Shortly before the last parliamentary elections, the previous government presented a proposal to improve conditions for entrepreneurs. ensure that entrepreneurs' borrowing opportunities were improved and that work was also to be started to strengthen entrepreneurial knowledge of crowdfunding. We would abolish the reproached entrepreneurial tax and provide graduates with good opportunities to start their own business with the entrepreneurship pilot scheme. Furthermore, the creation of the entrepreneurship companies in 2013 also deserves a comment. For entrepreneurship companies, among other things: is characterised by the fact that the capital requirement at the time of creation is only DKK 1. So these are a number of examples that show that the previous government did a great deal for the framework and conditions of entrepreneurs. In this context, however, it is also worth noting that the World Bank stated in its report "Doing Business 2015'that Denmark is actually the best country in Europe to start business in. Does this mean that, with all the good initiatives that have been taken, we must rest on the laurels? No, of course it does not, and that is why it is so important a debate to take. On the contrary, we need to use the good results as a springboard to continue to improve the framework for entrepreneurship. And, as I said at the outset, broad support for the entrepreneurship agenda is also a good starting point for a future constructive debate precisely in this area. However, in relation to the two motions for resolutions tabled, there are some knots which are too problematic for the Socialists to support the proposals. The targeted 2-year entrepreneurial benefit is proposed on the basis that many entrepreneurs fear bankruptcy. Then reference is made to the allowance, and I would just like to say that, in general terms, I do not like the equal treatment of entrepreneurs with those on unemployment benefits. Entrepreneurship is something that comes from the fact that you really have the desire and the urge to get to grips with these things. Getting on cash benefits is mostly something you do out of need. In addition to the fact that it cannot be documented, I would say that a 2-year service is not the solution to this problem. As you know, the possibility of going bankrupt is also present after two years. In fact, it has been shown that the risk of bankruptcy is greater just after two years. It's rarely a risk at first. Then I would also like to stress one of the things that I think may be contributing to the fact that it is falling for a great deal. It's that you're so hugely afraid of making mistakes. And here I just want to stress that it's okay to make mistakes. It is also okay that you come to terms with the Danish culture, which is carried by guilt and shame, and perhaps to a greater extent support some things where it is okay to fail. In addition, the proposers also say that it should be targeted people with sustainable ideas. It is super sympathetic, but I would like to argue that if you have a sustainable business idea, it must also be assumed that the market will honour it. As a result, the benefit is superfluous because it addresses a need that may already be met. Then, in relation to the creation of an international entrepreneurship programme, I would say that the Socialists believe that there is basically good sense in getting more international entrepreneurs into Denmark. There is certainly an undissolved potential here. I also think that children should of course be given more global thought, because that is what the future is. However, there is still reason to doubt whether the solutions proposed in the resolution are the right medicine. I am not sure that it is a Columbus egg to create a new entrepreneurship house in order to attract international entrepreneurs. Firstly, there are some of them already, the Minister mentioned it too, and secondly, I do not think that the physical framework is a decisive factor in this challenge outlined in the motion for a resolution. Then there has just been a discussion about whether it is financed or not. I would just like to say that I refer to the wording of the resolution and there is nothing about funding. But that is not why the Socialist Group cannot support it on its own. As I said, this is also for the other reasons mentioned. There are really positive intentions in the two resolutions, and the Socialists believe that there is a need to continue the good efforts to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, no doubt about that. It just has to be done the right way. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, therefore, we do not support the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134447	I could also have listed up all the good things that have just happened to entrepreneurship in the past, because we have been good at supporting entrepreneurs from Denmark. That is precisely what we are doing, among other things. These initiatives want to push. We should not rest on the laurels, we should push on this agenda because it is essential for cohesion, for jobs and so on. in Denmark. What I would just like to touch on is what the rapporteur said about the problem of putting unemployment benefits and entrepreneurship on the same footing. Does the rapporteur not agree that there may be people who are currently on unemployment benefits looking for jobs and looking for jobs that could, for example, by means of this scheme, get started creating jobs instead? Is this not an idea shared by the rapporteur, namely that people could be helped to create jobs for the future instead of keeping them in a system where they are looking for jobs that may not be right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134547	I think that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mixes things up. When you are on unemployment benefits today, you have the possibility, if you like, of passionate about it and have the idea, of starting your own business. The Minister said in an excellent way that there has been a system that at some point supported in a way similar to that proposed. It didn't go so well. Having to bring people back into unemployment because of the removal of a state aid scheme is not okay. I would like to stress that if it is the case that you can run a business and do it on the market conditions that are, then it is fine and good business from the start. You have to have it in you, and you have to have the desire to be an entrepreneur. I would like to stress again that the desire to be an entrepreneur must be present; we should not do so because in this way we can lift ourselves out of an unemployment benefit situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134644	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134647	I just think it is worth noting that there have been a number of different cashiers out there pointing out the wisdom of making such a scheme. Together with the Mayor of Copenhagen's Employment and Integration Mayor, there are several cashiers who have just said during the spring that it would be a good idea to look at how we help the benefit recipients to create businesses to get them started instead of keeping them in line with job search control. Instead, we need the incentives we can see working in Norway, Sweden, Germany. Does it not impress the rapporteur that there are indeed 'a' boxes pointing to this solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134728	I think it's really good that the A-boxes go out and point to it. I think it is very good that the City of Copenhagen and the Mayor of Employment and Integration Anna Mee Allerslev have been out and among other things. point to it. I think it's really good. But I just don't want it to come through a resolution like this. I think that this is a discussion we can take. I do not think that in this way this motion for a resolution is justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134751	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513134808	I would also like to sign for the opportunity to have a fundamental discussion on how to deal with entrepreneurship in Denmark. After all, this is an issue on which most parties have an opinion and which they also support with the series of initiatives that have so far been in force in Denmark. In fact, I believe that the Danish People's Party has been involved in all initiatives for the benefit of entrepreneurship in Denmark since 2001. One place we have not been able to join the tax agreement in 2012 on tax reliefs, which could of course also have an impact on people who want to start business in Denmark. But otherwise we have generally been involved in all the agreements that have been so far. I shall try to take one by one the two specific proposals put forward by the alternative. The first is the entrepreneurship service. I think it is, of course, very plausible to want to help people and finance their daily household, but it is a wrong premise if we start giving people entrepreneurial benefits. As the Minister also mentioned, the then entrepreneurial benefit in 1997 was stopped with an agreement because the experience with that was far, far to the wrong side. It was simply a distortion of competition towards a great many contractors who started to run their own business in Denmark, and there were also many companies that acted in a commercial market that felt competition from others who even received State-funded subsidies for it. This is not the right way to do it if we want more entrepreneurship in Denmark. We should not turn them into state drug addicts, and we should not turn them into those who can just expect to get an income from the state for 24 months. We need to do much more with advice and supervision on what to do to support sustainable entrepreneurial companies here in Denmark, and of course also look at what funding opportunities are available in Denmark. But giving them to the day and the road is the wrong way to go. What I think is the most important and fundamental is that those who have the desire and motivation, and not least the very best sustainable idea, should probably have the will to start implementing it, and they will also succeed in being an entrepreneur in Denmark. Denmark is actually one of the world's very best countries to do business in. In fact, I believe that we are voted to be the world's best country to do business in, and that is why Denmark also has a great deal to offer in this regard. We would like to participate in the committee's work to see where one might find one another to make it better to be an entrepreneur in Denmark. But giving them an income in this way, as the alternative suggests, is not something we want. In fact, when we look at the financing of it, we also think that it is financed by air roasts and fries. This is not something that we can reasonably prove has economically sustainable funding from state funds. It is said from the point of view of the alternative that it is fully funded, but I think there is a difference: if you as an entrepreneur come from being unemployed, then we can say, yes, yes, then it is indirectly financed, but if you come from employment, it is not financed. So I'm not buying the argument that this proposal is funded. With regard to the two entrepreneurship houses, I think it is important to point out that we need to spend the money in the right way. So we don't do that by spending 44 million, for example. kr. a year to implement these two entrepreneurship houses, of which the 15 million. kr. out of the 44 million. kr. It is only for new administrative costs to hire people and buy premises, etc. to these two entrepreneurial houses. This is not the right way to go. I also think that the resolution itself is very detailed. It leaves barely anything to the imagination of how the money is to be spent. We are down in the tens of thousands of crowns class, and the alternative must of course be allowed to finance what they want and to describe how the money should be spent, but I do not think that we on the part of the Danish Parliament should go into detail on how the money should be spent. So we would very much like to be involved in discussing more entrepreneurship in Denmark. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party have also made sure that we have EUR 20 million set aside. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Here we go in and see if there are some places where you can give sparring much better to the people in Denmark who want to be entrepreneurs. So 20 million has been set aside. kr. to it as an increased effort. So I think we're on our way. We would like to be involved in discussing it further, but we cannot support the concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135327	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135331	Sometimes it is so interesting to stand here in the Chamber with a proposal. In the past, a rapporteur said that it was a little thin and very short, and it is now being said that it is too detailed. And that's how it can be so hard to make everyone happy. What I really want to ask is about the very terrible state aid contained in the proposal on entrepreneurship. Does the rapporteur not agree that we already have quite a number of schemes relating to state aid to industry, for example to agriculture too, in other words to agree that we are already supporting business and that we are distorting competition if that is what you are so concerned with? Well, it's the same thing here. It is, of course, a state aid for something that we would like to have more of, just as we support all sorts of other business groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135418	I admit that there are a large number of places in Denmark where we also spend money to support companies. We do. We have about 160 different support schemes in Denmark. A large number of them have been financed through EU funds and others through Danish ministries, agencies, etc. It can also be done better, and I am looking forward, of course, to seeing what it is for some places that can receive public support not because I want there to be fewer support crowns for business development in Denmark, but because I want it to be more transparent, transparent, so there are fewer places that can get the support, but so it will be the same number of crowns that will be available for Danish business development. So, of course, we recognise that. But with regard to the proposal here for additional expenditure of 44 million. kr. a year on one proposal and 8 million. kr. I would like to say on the second proposal a year ago that it is not the right way to go, therefore, if you come at additional costs instead of remaining within the framework that is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135522	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135524	Is it to be understood that if we found the funding in the existing business support schemes, it could be more interesting for the Danish People's Party to look at it? Or how am I supposed to understand that? It is, of course, a state aid for something we have more of, just as we do with all other state aid to industry. It's to create development, and it's to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135547	After all, we have a number of places where support and advice can be obtained today. We have entrepreneurship pilot schemes, which are also supported by the state. We have glasshouses, we have growth guarantees, and we have many other initiatives where, as an entrepreneur, you have the opportunity to come in with your ideas. There are a lot of places. The right medicine is not to make a new supplement, a new board, a new office, a new place with some other consultants, which then has to sit for twice 7.5 million. kr. a year and make themselves taste judges of what activities are so-called sustainable. Because I do not believe that I attach the concept of sustainable value to the same value as the alternative rapporteur does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135625	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513135639	Like others, I would like to emphasise that this is a very important issue that the Alternative has put on the agenda, namely entrepreneurship. Because if we look into reality and look at all the successful companies we have in Denmark, they are all basically starting from an idea and an initiative from an entrepreneur. Some have many years on the back, while others are on the way, which is why it is of course essential to keep a strong focus on entrepreneurship. For it is and remains the prerequisite for growth and prosperity that we have companies that are established, grow and create value and jobs and contribute to the prosperity of Denmark. So it's a crucial theme. As others have said, we are actually doing quite well in various studies, and it is always positive that we are doing well. But as with so many other things, you can always do it a little better. And if you look at, for example, the biggest companies we have on the stock exchange today, it is not exactly the case that you see a list marked by many new names. It is often companies with very, very many years on the back. There is certainly no problem with that, but it would be nice to see even more relatively start-ups become what we call growth entrepreneurs, and this is perhaps one of the biggest challenges we have in Denmark: We are actually okay with the number of entrepreneurs, but we certainly have some challenges in terms of getting entrepreneurs up in gear and becoming big and really well-consolidated companies. As the Minister for Business said, this is a subject on which we in the government and the Left are very concerned, and an entrepreneurial strategy has been announced later this year. In this context, I also think it is essential to emphasise what is in the government base, namely that the government also intends to reform our business promotion system, because it is also a key element in the whole setup of entrepreneurship. In relation to the two specific proposals, there may not be any reason to repeat much of what has been said about the proposal for a 2-year entrepreneurial benefit, and that is because of the poor experience gained in the 1990s. Because it is the case that this type of service will mean that a company will be established and run with public crowns in its backs, while an existing company in the same field will not have the same public support in its backs. Thus, an otherwise well-run company may risk being out-dated by a company with public support in its backs, and not much growth and employment is created by simply replacing existing companies with new ones. So it is not a model and a scheme that we can support from the Left. In relation to the second resolution on an international entrepreneurship programme and international greenhouses, it can be said that these are very good intentions in this area, in other words to ensure that Danish entrepreneurs look outwards and that it is also attractive for foreign entrepreneurs to establish themselves in Denmark. The Minister for Business and Growth explained that there are already a number of schemes to support it. Some of it doesn't have much time on the back, and there is an evaluation along the way. And as the Minister said, I think it makes good sense to have these things evaluated to see if we have now knitted it properly and set it up in the right way, so that we support the intentions that are agreed before new and additional arrangements are established. That is why we in the Left cannot support the two concrete proposals, but I would like to stress that these are themes on which we in the Left are very concerned, and it is good to have the debate. But we therefore believe that these are other things that are necessary to further strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140053	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140107	In the Enhedslisten, we are positive about the proposal for an entrepreneurial benefit in which people affected by unemployment can replace the benefit with an entrepreneurial benefit if they have a viable idea to start a business. We have had such a benefit before, which was abolished at the end of the 1990s, but an entrepreneurial benefit can provide security that you can have an income to pay the rent, to get food on the table during the difficult months of starting up a business. From Enhedslisten's side, we believe that if there is the increased security, well then it will make more people jump out and start up a business, and we actually think that is really positive. The experience of the old system is, of course, mixed. There were many who started up, and it was by no means everyone who was successful. Something that we generally see when there is start-up of new companies is that there are many who end up being nothing. Nevertheless, we consider it essential in this context to propose that an entrepreneurial service should also be linked to an offer of really good advice, so as to ensure that there is both an economic foundation, but that there is also the advice and guidance needed for entrepreneurs to have the best possible conditions. Whether we succeed in implementing this proposal, we are at least thinking that there is a relevant discussion in relation to seeing whether there is a lack of competence in the cashiers or in the job centres in terms of supporting people, such as the elderly. is on cash benefits, but who may be carrying a dream of being self-employed or who might want to start a business up. There are also some things missing from the proposal here. One could, for example: If you look more closely at how a person in a reduced entrepreneurial benefit will have to raise capital to start his own business. What will the role of banks here be in making capital available and lending to the unemployed? We don't really know. The proposal does not include alternative sources of funding. It may also be outside the scope of this proposal, but at least that is something that is important to think about: how to make the right sources of funding available to the unemployed entrepreneur, for example. in the form of funds or other funds. But it is certainly something that could be looked at, if not in connection with this proposal, then in a different context. Then I also have some doubts as to what exactly is meant by sustainability. Should it be the business ideas that are sustainable, or is it sustainability in a more economic sense, or is it in a green sense? Is it social and environmental sustainability? For example, it works. the requirement of contractual relations? This is something that we, for example, are doing. in Enhedslisten think is very important. We will, for example: Not into creating a lot of new Uber companies and things like that. That would be too bad. It is also a little unclear in the proposal what will happen if the project fails. Can the unemployed person then fall back on the benefit or will the benefit period be exhausted? At least there are some challenges. If you have now spent your time while you are free to start up a business, then you have not been able to spend the same time on e.g. to look for jobs. And if your corporate idea doesn't materialise, it would be unfair if you, for example, were to do so. If you are entitled to it, which you are, for example, only if you are entitled to it. doesn't have more than 10,000 kroner. in wealth. In short, the proposal raises a number of questions that we would like to share in discussing and getting answers to in the further work of the committee, but we are, as a starting point, very positive about the proposal and think it is a good proposal. Then there is B 133 on international entrepreneurial houses. We are certainly not opposed to the idea of international entrepreneurship houses either. First of all, we are pleased that the alternative makes it clear that there must be entrepreneurship that takes account of social and environmental conditions. In any case, we think this is important. And when we talk about various forms of support, it is always crucial for Enhedslisten that there are social and environmental dimensions. We would like to sign that it is also part of this proposal. We also think it is superpositive if we can create a framework for good ideas from outside to create jobs and development in Denmark. It then costs some money. There's 44 million. kr. for which funding needs to be found. It's some kind of money. Therefore, it is important during a period when there are many cuts on the agenda at least if it is up to the blue block that we at least find out where this money should come from. Because if we just leave it to the blue block to find the funding for this, then we know where the funding comes from. It comes from the places where it normally comes from: the sick, the disabled, the unemployed and the poor in the Third World. We do feel that we would like to look at how we can support it, but we would also always like to look at where it is now that the money should come from, so that the money is not taken from anywhere that we think it is bad to take it from. For Enhedslisten, it is also crucial to have the promise revealed where the funding is to come from. In any case, this is something that we would also like to see looked at in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140704	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140709	Thank you. It was quite a bandbull that came about about all the types of funding that come from the activities of the so-called blue parties here in Denmark when they try to create growth. But perhaps I just think that the rapporteur should remember to sweep at his own door, because the vast majority of funding for the proposals coming from the red block would be financed, if necessary, through increased borrowing by foreign banks or elsewhere. So, we would simply have a bigger government deficit in Denmark. Then you can discuss what is best: find the money within Denmark's borders or borrow it abroad. I think I know what I'd choose. And it is certainly not healthy just to choose to make more and more Danish government bonds. But enough about it. The rapporteur said that the Enhedslisten would like to support this proposal, bearing in mind that we should bear in mind what was called viable ideas. In fact, the rapporteur said that it was very good if people had a dream of becoming self-employed. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that it is enough just to have a dream? I mean, I know a lot of people who have a dream of becoming independent, but it's never gonna happen to say it out loud. It takes more than a dream. If I came here to tell you I was gonna make an organic liver pie factory, it wouldn't be enough. You must have business plan, you must have a financing plan, you must have a place to sell your goods, etc. How does the rapporteur intend to define what is meant by having a so-called viable idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140831	Thank you. You don't curse in the Assembly Hall, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Sorry). The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140837	As far as funding is concerned, there is the possibility that funding can be found within Denmark from some of the places where it makes sense to find that funding. After all, a battle aircraft purchase was announced yesterday, which the Danish People's Party also supports, which costs 1 billion. kr. The play. The government wants to buy 27, and the government says they only cost 20 billion. kr. It is hard to imagine when you know that Norway is going to pay 1 billion. kr. the piece, although Norway intends to buy more fighter planes than Denmark. There are the corporate tax reductions introduced by the previous government, also with the support of the Danish People's Party. They cost 3 billion. kr. alone in 2016. The top tax relief, which was carried out by the previous government, costs 2 billion alone. kr. Here in 2016. So there's plenty of money to take off if you just take them in the right places. In relation to what should happen when you have a good idea, it is also our position in the Enhedslisten that in connection with this there should be an assessment of whether the business idea holds water, as it were. In other words, there must be an assessment of it, and this must be done together with the advice that needs to be given to these people who want to start business. So, of course, some kind of evaluation process must be integrated into this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140947	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513140949	I think it is a little dangerous when the rapporteur starts to say outright falsehoods from the parliamentary platform. The rapporteur said just now that the Danish People's Party has supported corporate tax reductions. We are not part of the 2012 Tax Agreement. I hope Enhedslisten has observed that. We actually said that instead of giving tax relief to business, to Novo Nordisk and to LEGO of 3 billion. DKK, it would be better to spend the money on making production tax reductions in Denmark for the benefit of production Denmark and for the competitiveness of Danish companies. So I do not think it is quite right that the rapporteur should start postulating things that are not really true. However, I recognise, of course, that the rapporteur may be allowed to say so. Another thing is just what the reality is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513141027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513141029	That is true, the questioner is right. I was a little too fast there. In the long series of cuts voted for by the Danish People's Party, I can mention the housing allowance for the elderly, the ceiling on cash benefits. We see how the Danish People's Party wants to spend billions of dollars on new bombers. It is true that I came to mention the tax reform in this context. It was a mistake, and I'd like to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513141056	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513141109	Thank you. As several have said, we are discussing the two motions for resolutions from the Alternative, which have the overall theme of increasing entrepreneurship in Denmark. It is, of course, a very important agenda and there are good intentions in it. Unfortunately, I have to say that most of all this is hot air. The alternative suggests, for example: a 2-year entrepreneurial benefit where 80% can be obtained. of the daily allowance. As several have mentioned, it has been tried before without any success. It must also be said that, overall, this is not something that increases employment in Denmark, for the money to be paid out to this 80% entrepreneurial benefit. of the allowance rate must come from somewhere. They have to be collected from some companies, even from some other entrepreneurs, which reduces employment. So it's not something that will increase entrepreneurship in Denmark other than that it will distort competition in relation to the entrepreneurs who won't be on this service. There is no entrepreneurship in it. Then there is the idea of creating an international entrepreneurship programme with two entrepreneurship houses. We already have similar measures. There are greenhouses, etc. etc. One can discuss how much entrepreneurship it creates, but at least it already exists. Then there is an idea that you should offer 100 travel grants to Danish entrepreneurs. I think scholarship is a fine thing, but it is not something that the public should finance. It is fine when private people take such initiatives when civil society enters and helps young people or older people, or who would like to be an entrepreneur, with some grants, but that is not something other taxpayers should finance. Then there's the idea that I might think is the weirdest of these ideas, and that's that you want to give 100 work and residence permits to international entrepreneurs, and they will then receive an initial capital of DKK 250,000 when they come to Denmark. In addition to the fact that I find it strange that there should be some people sitting there and assessing who are future foreign entrepreneurs, I have to say that I think it is wildly provocative. In other words, the idea is almost provocative that taxpayers, including entrepreneurs, should help to finance the arrival of foreign entrepreneurs in Denmark, and that they got seed capital when you think about how difficult it is for Danish entrepreneurs to get seed capital. Well, I think it's an absurd idea. Foreign entrepreneurs should be more than welcome in Denmark, more than welcome. We have said in our entrepreneurial programme that they must be very welcome, as I have just said, but when they come here they must have their own initial capital. This is not something we have to finance for them. Having said that, I would, of course, like to congratulate the alternative for putting the debate on the agenda. Entrepreneurs are needed in Denmark, for self-employed people in Denmark to jump into starting their own business. Several have mentioned that Denmark is a good place to operate; it is often mentioned in the debate. On the list of easy of doing business, which is often mentioned, we are in 2016 in third place. But it is the case to do business in Denmark in general. If you make the effort to delve into the report, you can see that when it comes to starting your own business, we are in a 29th place in Denmark. So Denmark is not a particularly attractive place to start your business. And what is it that pulls down in this report when they look at Denmark? There are a number of things that do, but it is very much taxation in Denmark. We have created an entrepreneurial initiative that addresses the challenges of starting a business in Denmark. We have a large number of proposals • we have so many that I can hardly reach them all here. But what goes through with our proposal is that we have actually been based on what research knows is important for entrepreneurship. And it is not all sorts of small schemes that may sound interesting. Those are the overall framework conditions. We have, for example. proposed what we call a 10-10 deduction. All Danes have a deduction if they start business, and if you start a business and work in it yourself and you sell it at some point, you have a deduction of 10 million. kr., and you have to pay 10%. in tax, if you sell your business. We have a proposal that there should be better opportunities to make deficits. Many start-ups have deficits in the first few years, and there is a limited possibility of making these losses, which have been accumulated in previous years. And this is an obstacle to many entrepreneurs. We had a proposal to make the framework better for employee shares. It may be difficult for new companies to attract employees because they find it difficult to pay a high salary, and thus it is a good idea that the company can then offer them some employee shares on some advantageous terms. This was a concrete proposal that we included in the financial law negotiations and which we actually managed to implement. Then we have a complete abolition of the entrepreneurial tax, which, contrary to what has been said earlier on in the Parliament's platform, has not been completely abolished. It is still the case that a company which is a shareholder of another company, i.e. an unlisted company and which has less than 10%. the share holding is taxed more heavily than if it had a share holding of more than 10%. in the company where there is no taxation. Then we have some of the most important things, and this is the capital thing. And it has to be said that capital taxation in Denmark is probably the biggest obstacle to entrepreneurship. That is why we believe both that the share tax should be reduced, but also that corporate tax should be reduced. This means a greater profit for the companies and the profits are being invested in other companies. Then we have our proposal of no tax on the first 7,000 kroner. The Left is very concerned about this concept of poverty. However, when you dive into the analyses made by the Ministry of Business and Growth and look at what kind of group is described as poor, it turns out that the third largest single group in the group of poor is actually self-employed. And I think that's almost provocative, so that we have a tax system in Denmark that makes many people have higher income on transfer than when you start your own business. So, of course, we need a tax in Denmark that does not pay taxes until you can support yourself. Those were some of our suggestions. We also have some debureaucratisation proposals, for example. one entrance to the SKAT, which will mean that the bureaucracy and the large number of telephone calls that you sometimes have to make when you have to contact an authority when you start a new business will be reduced. So we cannot support this proposal. Although we think it is good that entrepreneurship is put on the agenda, this is not a proposal that will make Denmark an entrepreneurial nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142011	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142016	Thank you. I do not understand how the share tax has anything to do with the start-up of small entrepreneurial businesses. But I would actually like to say that I believe that the Liberal Alliance and perhaps the alternative and other parties can meet somewhere in this area. For example, the one thing about presenting the deficit for a single year, if you are within strict definitions of being an entrepreneur, is: a proposal that we can look at. It was just an outstretched hand, so the rapporteur shouldn't look so bad at me. But what I wanted to say was that I actually agree that there is quite a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of offers out there. I myself have worked in an entrepreneurial office, so I actually believe that if we pooled and re-organised some of these schemes in which there are at least public support funds, it will not be more transparent that there should be less funding for this. But will the rapporteur help to do some sort of clean-up in the mess of subsidies that exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142125	We are very open to that. I can say, yes, we would like to. We may not be entirely in agreement when it comes to whether there should be so many subsidies. As I said, we think it is quite obvious that when you look out in the world and look at the countries where many start up and where there is a high level of entrepreneurship, it may well be that in those countries you will see that different arrangements can be found. They tend to focus on and believe that this is why there is a lot of entrepreneurship, but then you forget to look at the overall framework conditions, for example. the tax burden and other things that are in those countries. We would very much like to sabotage various aid schemes, but we would also like to abolish many of them and use the proceeds to ease taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142215	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142217	Thank you. I have another question. The rapporteur said here that if foreigners were to come to Denmark, they should be very welcome to start business, but that was not something that we had to finance. It is a bit in another ball street, but I am just interested in the rapporteur's answer to this question: does the rapporteur think that the research tax scheme is fair, i.e. this with a huge tax cut for foreigners coming to Denmark and who, despite the name far from being researchers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142249	In principle, we do not think it is fair. This is very funny, because this research tax scheme has been introduced, where, as far as I remember, the marginal tax is about 36-37 per cent, and this has been done in recognition of the fact that we have a tax in Denmark that makes us uncompetitive with other countries. That's why you've had to do this special thing. We would very much like to abolish the system provided that we do what we have proposed, namely that we do, for example, what we do. abolish the top tax in order to obtain a competitive marginal tax in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142329	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142332	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would also like to sign for the work that I have done by the Liberal Alliance, also in relation to entrepreneurship and to find good solutions for strengthening entrepreneurship in Denmark. There is something that we agree with and something that we disagree with, and that must be the case. I understand that the entrepreneurship policy of the Liberal Alliance is based on research and knowledge. I can then say that the entrepreneurial proposal we are making here is based on knowledge and experience of entrepreneurship from Norway, from Sweden, from Germany, where there is good experience of how it is put together. Then there is the international entrepreneurship programme. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of the actions that have been taken in Chile, for example, where international entrepreneurship programmes have just been put in place to attract talented entrepreneurs, who then connect with national entrepreneurs and create good companies that have this global outlook, which is so crucial that we also have in all our businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142434	I tried a little to address it in my rapporteur's speech by saying that you can go to almost all countries, including our neighbouring countries, and then you can see that they have different arrangements. And then you can stare blindly at those schemes and believe that's why entrepreneurship is better in those countries, and I think that's a big, big mistake. Because what you have to look at is the overall framework conditions, and when the overall framework conditions are in place, and they are more so in those countries than they are in Denmark, that is what we need to focus on in Denmark. That's where we get the most bang for the buck in terms of entrepreneurship. That is to focus on it and not on all these schemes that can be found in all countries. That is not why there is better entrepreneurship in other countries, in other words because you have all sorts of special arrangements. This is because there are better overall framework conditions for entrepreneurship. I might mention that on the Ease of doing business list is our neighbour Sweden no. 8, England no. 6, Norway No. 9, Finland no. 10 and Germany No 15. So when we all talk about how easy it is to do business in Denmark, we just have to remember that it is not so easy to start business, and this is primarily because the framework conditions for it are not good enough. It's about a lot of things, but it's really about taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142557	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142600	I agree that we should not be looking blindly, but that is why I think experience is good. And since we ourselves do not have so many experiences, I think it is a good idea to look at the good measures we have taken without blinding ourselves. So I ask again: are some of these international entrepreneurship schemes around the world something the rapporteur is aware of? Because we can see that by attracting international entrepreneurs and networking them with Danish entrepreneurs you could create some companies with a greater global outlook and thus also have easier access to a global market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142635	I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech that it is very good if entrepreneurs want to come to Denmark, but they have to come because there are good framework conditions, not because there are all kinds of special arrangements. I can also say that I have reversed the proposals made here today by the Alternative in the past, they have been advanced in the past, and there are others who have also had them, they have been brought forward in the debate in the past, where I am among others. discussed them with the Danish Entrepreneurship Association, among others. the proposal for this 2-year entrepreneurial benefit. They rejected it blankly and said that this is not the way forward, entrepreneurs should not be on transfer, we should have good framework conditions. Entrepreneurs do not want to be on transfer, it is against the whole spirit of being an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513142728	Many thanks to the alternative for raising an issue for which we are very many parties that have been burning for a long time: entrepreneurship. It's a good thing there's been one who feels like his heart blood. In the Radical Left we have among other things. in government ensured that we had the entrepreneurial tax removed. We created the opportunity to create an entrepreneurial company, and then we have recently played out a big entrepreneurial venture, both before the election and now again after the election. One has to say that in the place we are like in world history there is the money that is there, and therefore it is important to choose the right measures when you want to support entrepreneurship. There I would like to say that the two proposals that come from the alternative today are, in fact, sympathetic. I understand the intention behind them, but we have some concerns, and then we probably also have some other priorities than the alternative in this area. Because what you can say about the Danish entrepreneurs is that it is actually quite easy to become an entrepreneur in Denmark. It is one of the best places in the world to start business. It's easy, it's unbureaucratic. What's hard is to get capital into it and make it grow. That is the real challenge for our entrepreneurs in this country. And then, of course, it is at all to get the idea, that through your schooling and your life you get to meet entrepreneurs and think that you can become an entrepreneur. We know that mentors are one of the most important things for future entrepreneurs. Meeting someone during your life is one of the most inspiring things. So we will probably give priority to spending the money somewhere other than what the Alternative proposes with its two proposals today. Instead of thinking about entrepreneurs as some who have to go around on transfer income, we would say that it is some who should have the opportunity to invest at some point in their lives and get it back later. That is why we have proposed radically to make an investor allowance so that both small and large investors can invest, also in start-ups, and get a tax credit to invest that way around. We are also concerned with the second part of what the Alternative proposes, namely attracting international talents to Denmark. I would just like to remind you that we already have what is called Start-up Denmark, which should make it easy for entrepreneurs to come here and get visas and other things. In addition to that, Radicals have proposed setting up what we call the Investment Committee Denmark, which is to co-finance the accelerator programmes that already exist. Because there are some really, really talented entrepreneurial environments in Denmark today, and instead of the state going out and making some houses where there are just international entrepreneurs, we would much rather have it mixed with the Danish entrepreneurial environments and support up under the environments that already exist. That is why we have proposed going out and co-financing the existing accelerator programmes in Danish strengths. This is something like green technology, which has always been a heartchild for radicals, biotech, food technology and some of the other strengths we have. And then we have to make sure that these programs can recruit all over the world and attract the great talents to Denmark. In addition, we have proposed to be able to create mentoring programmes for what we know from international studies, among other things. among the joint organisation of young entrepreneurs, it is all the most important, namely that you can have a mentor, and in the research negotiations we have set aside money for the Entrepreneurship Fund to ensure that there is entrepreneurship on the school curriculum. So that is where we give priority to spending the money. Unfortunately, we do not have the money on our financial law that the alternative now wants to spend on these two proposals. We would rather use the ones we have then dropped off on the projects I have outlined here. So we cannot support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143131	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143137	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. It was nice to hear the whole list of good ideas that Radicals have in this area too. It is fantastic when you hear the list that has been so far of good ideas on entrepreneurship. Then I look forward to getting even more turbo on and throwing together this whole pile of ideas. Then we'll get somewhere. What I would like to touch on is the entrepreneurial benefit, which I know the rapporteur's party colleague, the mayor of employment in Copenhagen, has just spoken out for. Could Radicals imagine perhaps trying to set up pilot schemes around this, so we just got some experience on a new basis and not from some old scheme that had been put together in a different way, but that we were trying to make a new composition of such a scheme that several of them are asking for and also the radical mayor of employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143231	Then I think it should be thought much more of employment than of entrepreneurship. In other words, I think we need to get into the employment system and see if there is any chance of helping those who would otherwise be caught on unemployment benefits or other forms of transfer income to start something up. Unfortunately, in terms of being able to give everyone this opportunity, we often see that someone who would otherwise be able to take care of themselves is moving on to transfer income. We in the Radical Left do not think this is appropriate, so of course we would like to discuss how to get some of the people who would not normally be in work to come from transfer income to entrepreneurship. However, the problem with the alternative proposal is that there is a risk that a great many of those who are now entrepreneurs and are at an early stage will opt for a transfer income. And it's a move in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143323	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143325	What I then think would be the bad thing in the idea of saying that it should be in the employment system is that we then do not take it seriously as what it is all about: job-creating workers, in other words people who create businesses. So if it were put into the employment system, could the rapporteur not be afraid that there would not be the expertise, the knowledge and experience and the networks that are needed, because it would then be in another system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143350	We take it very seriously. But we also take seriously that entrepreneurs are precisely very tough people who are very stubborn and actually have it as their main strength to be able to take care of themselves. And if they are suddenly about to be on transfer income and state-aided instead of being seen as what they are, namely some who invest their lives, and at the beginning of their project everything they own and have, because they believe so much in it, then I do not really think it benefits entrepreneurship. I do not think it is for the benefit of people who are on a transfer income or on a daily allowance to believe that being an entrepreneur is something you do equally. It is extremely difficult and requires your whole life... blood, sweat and tears... and we therefore believe that if it is an employment project, it must be in the Ministry of Employment, and if it is entrepreneurship, you must support them in the ways I outlined in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143442	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. And the next rapporteur is Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513143451	We are working together on the two proposals from the Alternative for an international entrepreneurship programme with two international entrepreneurship houses and on a 2-year targeted entrepreneurial service. And I have some mixed comments on them. I think it is very good that we are discussing entrepreneurship. Before I was elected to the Danish Parliament, I worked at Aalborg University's entrepreneurial office, where we actually tried to get the students started, perhaps even before they were finished; with some of the things they did PhD in or wrote paper about. So it's really, really exciting. It also gave me a little insight into how many offers there are actually out there. I do not think that this is the way it is perceived by those who want to start. For them, I think more it seems like a jungle, or as if there's exactly what they need most. So I would like us to take a look at these proposals and see if we could sort out some of these many offers. There are many offers for entrepreneurs. There's VOICE. There's the Entrepreneurship Aid. Just in Aalborg, which I know best, there is BusinessAalborg and entrepreneurship education. And there is entrepreneurial help in the greenhouses. So maybe I think it's more about looking at how we can undo this. This does not mean that there should be less help or less economic opportunities for help, but that there should be a little more transparency in it. Because there is some overlap really, very many places. However, I think that the proposal for an entrepreneurial benefit on a reduced daily allowance rate is a very good idea. The SF would like to support that. We are not sure that this should be the way it should be put together, but we will support the proposal. We think the intention is really good. It is relatively easy to start a business in Denmark. What is difficult is to make it survive for just a year, for example. We see a lot of bucks under there. But many also become wiser by having tried and then they get up and try again. And that may be what we need to support. Well, there's the culture at least in the United States, where the Tax Committee was on a trip to Silicon Valley, so that you can actually get better and better by trying, so you can fail, but you can get up again. That is also what we need to help with. It may not succeed the first time, but then you can try again. And there'll be a reduced daily allowance bet there'll be a safety net. Of course, this does not help what many people find difficult, namely access to capital and so on. But I also think that we should be careful not to suck the state too much into that part of it. There's business angels out there, there's incubator programs, and there's capital, etc. And there must also be a certain degree of market element in it, i.e. in whether the ideas are so good that they can attract capital. But it's about getting started at all. It was the same with my own brother-in-law who wanted to get started on a daily allowance rate. And even if you are actually an active jobseeker and are looking for a job while trying to start something up in your spare time, then if it is to be settled again, you can suddenly sit in an economic, systemic catache. So I also believe that there is even more to be done here by saying that you should not be penalised financially because you have tried and actually also complied with your obligations in relation to being job seekers within the existing system or even if it was converted into an entrepreneurial benefit. SF has some funding proposals. I think this could be self-financing, as they say, in the short term, but that is not how they count in the Ministry of Finance. So we also have some ideas for immediate funding, for example. by really tightening up the research tax scheme. In the SF we would like to have the discussion about whether it should go ahead at all, but if it should, it should be tightened up. It is used in the East and the West and often for some rather high-paid jobs in our medico companies and elsewhere, and we do not think that is fair. So there we want to tighten up and spend some of the funding to strengthen what we must also live on in the future, namely to get young people in particular to come in and help solve some of the challenges and problems facing society. That is also what I am reading into the alternative's proposal: especially with regard to the social, sustainable, environmental and climate challenges that you are facing, there are things that we would like to have all the good powers and minds in play to solve. And it is fantastic if there are people who can make money solving concrete social challenges. I do not know whether it should be identified for, as the DF's rapporteur mentioned, we may have different views on what sustainability is. But I just want to say that I agree with that part. There are a great many schemes and offers out there, and I think that the area needs to be refurbished. And it may be that the Minister would actually be interested in getting an overview of it. What is there of public support crowns and offers? In fact, some of them are opposed to each other because it will be more about a competition for what is just being done with support measures than that there should be an overall offer to entrepreneurs across the country. I could have doubts as to whether this is the best way of doing things today. In relation to the entrepreneurial houses, I would say that there are a lot of entrepreneurial houses today, but they have grown from the bottom up. And I actually think that's an even more creative way for people to get together. So that part of the proposal we in the SF are not so crazy about. We are more concerned with securing both the framework for the entrepreneurial environments that are there, but also the advice that needs to be provided. So we are not so interested in making state-funded entrepreneurial houses, but more in looking at how the environments that crawl up and start on their own and that jump out can be associated with the advice that we would like to help them with. That's it. So from here there is support for the proposal for a 2-year targeted entrepreneurial service and partial support for some of the things that lie in the second proposal. However, we would rather spend the money on supporting some of the environments that already exist, rather than setting up new concrete entrepreneurship houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144200	There is one brief comment to make: sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144205	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The good thing that sometimes happens in this Chamber when we are actually debating something is that there is a good development in proposals, and I look forward very much to further work in committee on some of the ideas that the rapporteur had. Then I'm gonna sign for this clean-up offer. I also think it's really important that we get this overview so we know what's really going on in this area. We have already asked what is being used in this area at all, so that we can get an overview of it and perhaps also make some more detailed comparisons of the various programmes. So it was a clean receipt for those thoughts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144246	Thank you, I fully agree with that. And it absolutely must not be understood that the SF believes that less money should be spent in this area. But SF thinks we might be able to use them better and more concentrated by looking at whether there are things that overlap in an inappropriate way. So we look forward to working on this together with the Alternative and most other parties who, as I heard, are interested in somehow developing this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144314	The questioner for the second brief remark. There was none anyway, so thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144322	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the alternative for the initiative. This is close to the most important issue we can discuss here in the Parliament: how do we get some more entrepreneurs? How do we get more people to take responsibility for their own lives, and how do we create more activity in Danish society? This is necessary because growth is at snail speed in Denmark. We can see that there is a lack of surviving entrepreneurs. Denmark is an easy country to start business in. It's relatively unbureaucratic. Starting a business is relatively cheap. But we can see that the rate of survival is not very high in Denmark in terms of creating jobs and growth. That is why the alternative's approach is very good, and we would very much like to discuss it more. As far as the concrete proposals are concerned, we have been through entrepreneurship before. We were in the 1990s, and I myself was then employed as an economist in the unemployment fund for self-employed people, ASE, as it is called. There we also had a lot on entrepreneurship. What was the conclusion of a number of studies carried out at that time, not by ASE, but by SFI and others, was that many of the companies on entrepreneurship did not survive. They kind of pushed the effect. Firstly, there was a distortion of competition in the creation of entrepreneurial services and the creation of a business right next to a business that did not receive entrepreneurial services. Secondly, it was like a pretext that you might just as well do it, instead of having it in your blood, in your DNA, that you would start your own business with blood, sweat and tears. Therefore, the survival rate of the companies that were set up because of entrepreneurship was very low! This does not mean that you should not look without prejudice at how to get people on transfer income to start their own business. We would like to look at this because it would be win-win for Danish society to move people away from passive support on one or other service and to go out and start their own business and hopefully also build it up so much that they can live on it and maybe also get some employees and can develop. But we don't believe in that part of it. Then there is B 133 around international entrepreneurship houses and fellows etc. Since there are now all the arrangements in Danish society in that area, I do not think that this is where we should start. I think that what is important here is to look at how we create some conditions so that people want to start their own business. It goes all the way back to school. One has to look at how to create a situation in school so that people are not just trained to be public employees or employees, but want to start their own business. If you went into a school class today, such as one of my daughters' school classes, and asked them if they wanted to start their own business, then not many would answer yes. I myself went to school in the United States, and there you could do a similar show of hands. There would certainly have been more than two thirds of my classmates saying: I would like to start my own business while in Denmark you experience exactly the opposite. So it's all about mentality right back in school: that you want to take on the responsibility of wanting to set up a company and want to develop it yourself and have the dream to do so. So the first thing we need to do is to do something about the school so that we also get trained people who take responsibility themselves and entrepreneurs at school. The second is that we need to look at where the greatest challenge for entrepreneurs is today. The greatest challenge for entrepreneurs today, these two proposals do not address, but the alternative has been mentioned at other times about the financing of entrepreneurs, which I think has been very sensible. There is a lack of liquidity as an entrepreneur. One lacks an opportunity to invest. One lacks the opportunity to innovate as an entrepreneur. So the greatest challenge you have as an entrepreneur today is the capital that you need. There we in the Conservative People's Party have specifically proposed the creation of a share-saving account which corresponds to the model in Sweden. We proposed during last year's financial law negotiations, and we will repeat it again this autumn, that as a small saver we simply have an opportunity to invest in start-ups, small businesses, etc., so that they get the necessary boost in terms of capital, which can help boost them and secure the foundations under them. So these are two of the key areas where action must be taken, and there is, of course, a whole range of other initiatives that you can look at: making life less difficult, providing better framework conditions for entrepreneurs and also better counselling at several different levels. So, as much as I hate to say it, the Conservative People's Party cannot vote in favour of these two proposals. However, we would like to congratulate the alternative for raising the issue and also for constantly launching the discussion and also for doing so with some of the other proposals that have been put forward here. However, these two proposals cannot be supported by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144846	Thank you to the rapporteur. Was there a brief comment? There wasn't. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513144906	Thank you. Today we are discussing, in addition to B 134, which must be dealt with afterwards, two proposals which the Alternative has put forward with the aim of strengthening entrepreneurship in Denmark. The two proposals concern the introduction of an entrepreneurial service and the creation of an international entrepreneurship programme. The proposals are part of our entrepreneurial package, a entrepreneurial Denmark, which aims to raise entrepreneurship to new heights, because it is our ambition that the 21st century should be the century of entrepreneurs, and here we actually believe that the two proposals under discussion today can play a really important role. I am, of course, pleased with the nice words that have come from all the rapporteurs, and also with the long list of very good ideas that several people have listed and which, of course, point out that we here in the Danish Parliament want entrepreneurship, and I look forward to seeing that, in the course of the discussion of these proposals, we will hopefully also get even more proposals on the table so that we can do something together by raising entrepreneurship very high. For the alternative, it is a matter of priority that Denmark should have a stronger and even more socially beneficial entrepreneurial culture. The small and medium-sized enterprises are, after all, some of those who employ the most people in Denmark, so we would like to have more of them, and we pay tribute to the progressive pioneers and the value-based communities who have the imagination and the courage to challenge the existing one in order to bring about a positive change. But it has to be easier to do, easier to make a difference. For the future Denmark must be a much more entrepreneurial, entrepreneurial and creative society than it is today, and therefore we will work to change some of the rigid structures that prevent many emerging entrepreneurial talents from flourishing, so that more can go from being job-taking creators It is only how we believe that Denmark can become the best country, not just in the world, but the best country for the world. It is only the case that we can find solutions to the acute challenges we face, for example. more traditional jobs disappear, and the climate crisis calls for completely new answers because it forces us to change the way we produce, transport and organise ourselves. In relation to the concrete proposals, we want to introduce, with the first proposal, an entrepreneurial benefit for the unemployed on unemployment benefits, which has a budding entrepreneur in the stomach. Instead of subjecting benefit recipients to restrictive controls and rigid rules, we will meet more with confidence and with a framework that allows us to pursue dreams of being self-employed. In Denmark, we have a labour market and a social safety net that will easily support an even more dynamic entrepreneurial culture. But unfortunately, instead, it often seems that we are afraid to unleash our entrepreneurial talents. For example: Today many unemployed people are prevented from jumping out as entrepreneurs because of rigid rules that they have to be available for the labour market in a very specific way. However, this does not change the fact that the public has the potential to help people from public support to a life as self-employed if we know how to use our resources much better. And that's why we're suggesting that the unemployed should be able to come up with this 2-year entrepreneurial benefit. There has been a lot of criticism today that we have already tried it and that it did not work, but we should not look at this again. But what is important to do when you look at experiences is also to look at experiences from other parts of the world, and especially as regards the way in which this is thought of together with the support that also lies in it in relation to mentoring, etc., it is of course experiences from Sweden, from Norway and from Germany that have shown that it actually works and it is sensible. So instead of looking only at bad experiences from Denmark, we have actually chosen to look at good experiences from other countries. The Enhedslisten was talking about whether there is a lack of skills in the A-boxes to help people. It may well be that it does too, but I believe that there is a very great lack of rules that will allow people to do so. As the SF rapporteur said, we are putting up barriers for people who want to, and that is also why I find it interesting that the Mayor of Copenhagen has been out with a number of cashiers and saying that it would be sensible to look at what we can do here and how we can use our unemployment benefit system to create jobs for the future. So yes, I think we should also look at the 'A' boxes and whether there might be something there, but I think the important thing in this proposal is that we take it seriously as entrepreneurship. It is not employment, it is entrepreneurship, and I think it is important that it should not just be in the a-boxes, but that it should be in the business area. In our second proposal on the creation of the international entrepreneurial programme with entrepreneurship houses, we want to take a step towards making Denmark the best country to be an entrepreneur in, with good external experience, mixed with good talents in Denmark. Firstly, the proposal is about attracting international entrepreneurs from all over the world, and it is inspired by programmes from among others. Chile. Here you have good experience, which shows that by providing particularly favourable conditions to international entrepreneurs, you can actually strengthen your own entrepreneurial culture and your own entrepreneurial businesses. But by offering these jobs, which bring the international entrepreneurs together with the Danish entrepreneurs, we will not just create another entrepreneurship house. Because we are fully aware that there are good and amazing entrepreneurship houses and office communities and everything else that works very well, and as many have also mentioned, they are created from below and they can do a lot of things. But what we're going to achieve by creating some specific houses that bring together entrepreneurs in these groups is to create some networks. Because something happens when you sit with other entrepreneurs and work on ideas. That is precisely why many of the houses we already have are well-functioning. Because these are the networks you create, and here we will focus on the international part of it. So, yes, we really want this entrepreneurship, and I am very pleased with the debate that has taken place today, where all the rapporteurs have come up with good ideas, and that is why we are also looking forward to the work of the committee on this, and we still hope that we can push something forward. Not least in relation to the Minister's words about the government's work on entrepreneurship, we hope that we can also help to inspire with these proposals and to push a little on that agenda with the government as well. Thank you, however, to all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513145629	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur here. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513145647	The debate is open. First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513145709	Thank you. The alternative has proposed the creation of a Centre for Social Economic Entrepreneurship, Enterprise and Growth to further strengthen efforts to promote the social economy in Denmark. We can all agree and, I think, agree that the social economy is doing an important and socially beneficial job every day. They help to create innovative solutions to several of the challenges of society, and through employment and education they also create a meaningful everyday life for some of the people who may, in one way or another, have difficulty or are exposed. Recently I was in Aarhus to visit the registered social economic company called the House Venture, which deals with vulnerable people. Here I met a large number of fiery souls who work to create a better and more meaningful everyday life for their employees. I was also able to see for myself how they, through work and education, help create a good framework in an otherwise uncertain everyday life, helping many citizens move on in their lives and also on to a paid job. It is citizens who might otherwise have continued to be on transfer income. The House Venture promises a task that is important to society but operates on market conditions like all other companies. They simply work according to socio-economic criteria. I attach great importance to the fact that we have a well-functioning social economy sector and also dynamic companies in the field. That is why I have also identified this area as one of the focus areas of the Social Responsibility and Growth Dialogue Forum, which I launched in February, and whose chairman has been appointed, and it is Dan Boyter who has long experience with social economic companies, among others. through his time at Pressalit. The work of the Dialogue Forum is on the shoulders of an earlier effort, namely the Council for Social Economic Enterprises, which made proposals on how to strengthen and promote the social economy. That is why I have also invited several members of the previous Council to participate in the Dialogue Forum, and I hope and also believe that the Dialogue Forum can help to support companies in taking responsibility for society and in supporting the work of social economic companies in creating growth in a way that creates the greatest value for each company, but also for society. The Dialogue Forum shall include, inter alia: develop and disseminate knowledge of trends in social responsibility and socio-economic enterprises and help establish partnerships in this area. In addition to the work of the Dialogue Forum to promote social economy, it is important to say that the Danish Business Authority continues to be the source of information and guidance among others. public actors, businesses and civil society on social economy. The board also advises on the regulatory and registration arrangements for social economic companies.This is why it is also my assessment that the government's efforts to promote the social economy in the future under the auspices of the Dialogue Forum and the Danish Business Authority are on a perfectly reasonable rent. Today's effort supports the development of the area through inter alia: knowledge sharing, the promotion of corporate engagement and social economic partnerships. In addition, the Dialogue Forum will now also be given a direct political opportunity by entering the political agenda and, above all, bringing forward proposals. It is important to me that we promote that agenda through actions that are tangible and have a direct and tangible effect on businesses, not through increased bureaucracy. It is tangible and noticeable in my optics, for example. It is not necessarily the aim of the proposal today. I must also note that the financing provided by the alternative by proposing to increase the tax deduction for petrol and diesel vehicles is not, for me, an immediate solution which I can support and which the government can therefore support. So, although it is a priority task and, above all, a priority task for the Folketing to have discussions on the social economy and the social economy, I do not agree with what is behind the financial priorities of the alternative. But that does not mean that we cannot make an effort, and I would also like to make an effort to do so with regard to the social economy. I believe that much more can be done, and I also believe that what is crucial in this matter is that there is political attention on the part of the Minister on the part of social economic companies. In this context, I can mention that in my time as Minister I have visited up to several socio-economic companies and that, before I became a minister, I have also been involved in this field. There is therefore reason to note that hopefully there will be a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supporting the idea of promoting social economic companies, but also ensuring that more knowledge and guidance will be created on how to become a social economic company, if one wishes to do so. In doing so, I note that the government cannot support the concrete motion for a resolution, but agrees that the discussion and, above all, the debate on how we can keep a political focus on promoting the efforts and contributions of social economic companies is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150301	Thank you, Minister. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150307	Thank you, Minister. I fully agree that it is beneficial for an area to have the Minister's interest and attention, so it is also good for social economic companies. I would like to drill a little into the dialogue forum that has been created, versus what the alternative is actually proposing here and which is about the specific advice for the individual who wants to start up. And I would like to hear a little bit about where the Minister thinks he could work on it, because it is a little different, in other words, as I see the advice that was set up earlier this year by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150354	I mean, the Dialogue Forum has, among other things. the possibility of setting the framework for a conference on social economic enterprises, and I hope they will do so too, which could provide a basis for better knowledge sharing. As I mentioned in my speech, there are also Members who have good experience of the work that has taken place in the past. That is why it has also been important to me that some of those Members were given the opportunity to continue, and I can then mention that former MP of Enhedslisten Line Barfod has now also agreed to join the Dialogue Forum. So yes, it is true that there is a difference between what the Alternative proposes and the Social Responsibility and Growth Dialogue Forum. But I also think that the work that I have set in motion should be allowed to continue, and then we will most likely be discussing whether initiatives cannot be taken to support it. I also think it might be a good idea to have a more direct dialogue with the Dialogue Forum on where they see that there may actually be some need for efforts that may not necessarily be something that I or, for that matter, the business community is aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150508	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150510	I fully agree that there are some very sensible people in the Council which the Minister has set up and who have a great deal of knowledge about this area. I may then have to arm myself a little with patience, because one thing is that we can use some knowledge on, for example. conference plan. But what I think is so necessary is that there is also this guidance and advice for the new ones who want to start up. And I'm a little curious if the Minister sees fit to be in this. I'm not quite sure I understood from the answer. It may be that my understanding fails here. However, I would certainly like to know whether one thinks that new entrepreneurs wishing to create social economic enterprises can be advised in the Dialogue Forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150601	Now it is thought of as nothing more than a forum. And it is clear that if you are going to provide direct advice, it will also require employee resources. However, my point is that this dialogue forum can help to focus on some of the areas where further guidance is needed or where you might find that there are municipalities that are doing well, and then you can help to highlight it. Because many good initiatives are taken in many places, but they may not be known between municipalities, and some of the challenges we generally see in Denmark are due to the fact that we are not good enough to learn from each other. I think that in this particular area there are many private companies that could make their knowledge available, but there are also municipalities that do it really, really well and where an interaction between KL and the business community could be very, very useful to pick up on that knowledge. So it is not necessarily just about creating knowledge, but also about making it available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150653	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is the rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann, from the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150701	Thank you. With B 134, the proposers will find the means to set up a knowledge and innovation centre in social entrepreneurship and social economic enterprises. The proposal strikes an open door. For as the comments describe, the funds for the Growth Centre for Social Economic Enterprises under the Finance Act 2016 were not extended. There are thus a number of unsolved tasks that were carried out until the turn of the year. After all, it is a sad and yet another good example in the already long line of the fact that the financial priorities of the Blue Block are anchored elsewhere than where the Socialists would have given priority. As you know, with the 2016 Finance Act, the blue block priority was the homeowners, who have plenty, and by the way also to make expensive cars cheaper. I would also like to note that the proposers, who were themselves partly behind the spending part of the Finance Act 2016 with the Housing Job Scheme, are now themselves making proposals that meet a need that has arisen because an appropriation under the Finance Act 2016 was not extended. I think that is worth noting. Apart from that, the proposal itself is of course sympathetic. We think so. There can certainly be good reason to spread social economic experience, which is being done around, and in general to promote the area. As far as the Socialists are concerned, we cannot support the proposal, first of all in the light of the unfinanced expenditure that this entails in the motion for a resolution. Secondly, it is also reasonable to ask whether a growth and knowledge centre is the way to progress in this area. Rather, is there not a need for real investment? In any case, I would like to state that it is at least as crucial to ensure that there are financial incentives to invest in social economic innovation and in social economic enterprises, which, as you know, the proposal does not support. So in those words, I would just like to conclude by saying that the Socialists do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150907	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. The next speaker is rapporteur Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513150917	Thank you very much, Madam President. We in the Danish People's Party would also like to sign up for the initiative which has come from the alternative today to give us an opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to discuss a little about the working conditions that today exist for the many social economic companies around Denmark. It is of course no secret that the Danish People's Party has had a relatively high focus on the fact that the very framework that we have to offer these socio-economic companies must also be at a high level. That is also why we, as the only Blue Party, supported the previous government in the legislation that came about on working conditions for social economic companies, where a number of improvements were made. That is why, of course, we were also provoked by the fact that, in the context of the financial bill that came for 2016, the current government decided to close down this Growth Centre for Social Economic Enterprises and instead of at a slightly lower level, it could be said, financially and in terms of effort, that it wanted to focus on this Council, the Dialogue Forum, on social economic companies. In fact, in the Danish People's Party, we believe that it was a wrong priority not to retain the growth centre that we had at the time. What can you do about it? Yes, you can choose to do what the alternative is proposing here, but with funding that we do not really think is very good. We recognise that, so that's probably not where we're going to find the money if it is. However, the things that we have reserved for ourselves in the Danish People's Party are that we would like to raise this initiative again in the context of the financial law negotiations, which will soon begin again, for the coming financial law year, i.e. 2017, and there is an initiative that we would like to focus on. Then there is also the question of whether there can be any negotiations ahead of it, and I do not want to deny that, of course, it also depends on how the government responds to this. Then, of course, we would also like to negotiate an improved initiative already in the current session, before the Finance Act for 2017. But in any case, we will also help to ensure that this motion for a resolution is dealt with properly in committee. We would also like to be involved in negotiating a report which commits at a higher level than what we may typically do in many of the resolutions that we are dealing with here in the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151155	There is one with a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151201	I would just like to sign up to the rapporteur for both the work that the Danish People's Party has done in the past for social economic companies and also for the rapporteur's speech here. I look forward very much to us trying to come up with something. Then perhaps there is this funding that stands in the way of the Danish People's Party's full support, but I am sure that with the limited resources we have to find, in relation to the big fund, we can come up with something, if nothing else, to work further to strengthen this area. We really believe that it is crucial for the development of the whole of Denmark and the municipalities that we have strong social economic companies. Counseling is needed. So thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151248	I can only sign for the same thing and say we'll find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151254	There are no more brief comments right now, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151303	Thank you. Just as I began my speech in the debate on the two previous proposals, I would like to say again here again that this is an important issue to which the alternative relates. Social economy companies are a tool that can be used to ensure a great many good results, help to get people on the edge of the labour market going, get something up and going that would not otherwise work, and help to secure a labour market that is also slightly wider. So it's an important theme. I am not going to repeat many of the arguments put forward by the Minister for Industry and Growth. I can only note that some of the things that have expired have been replaced by other things where these tasks remain and are anchored and where guidance, inspiration and sparring can be sought to be sure that you have the knowledge and insight needed to support development. That is why I would like to say again, and perhaps I also referred a little to it in the discussion of the previous proposals, that it may not be the best way to set up further initiatives parallel to other ones, so that there will be more roads for the same purpose. There is a relatively clear division of labour today. Things are anchored. If you do something next door, it doesn't necessarily get any clearer. There is, of course, also an economic issue in this. So was the rest of them. The alternative does not, of course, write in the individual motions for resolutions where the money is to come from. I know that it is the drivers who have to stand up for it when you look at it as a single initiative. We do not think this is a good source of funding. That is why I have to say that this is an important issue. This is something the government has taken care of to ensure a clear anchoring, a clear division of responsibilities. We know where to turn, and that is something that is important to support, but the concrete proposal from the alternative cannot be supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151523	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Okay, I see that it's sir. Rune Lund instead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151546	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we are very positive about the alternative's proposal to find money for a public growth centre for social economic enterprises. And it should not be a secret that we in the Enhedsliste were sorry that the government could not find the approx. 8,5 million kr., it cost to operate the former center, which therefore had to close last year. It was a pity, because we agree with the alternative in that the social economy companies are an important area to support, because jobs can be secured here for groups typically marginalised in the Danish labour market. The social economy is one of the tools best suited to giving these marginalised groups a chance in the labour market. And therefore it was also incomprehensible from the Enhedslisten's point of view that the government, which is so busy hunting the unemployed to get them into work, could not find this relatively modest amount to continue the growth center, which actually helped to support the development of companies that are precisely helping weak groups in employment • something that various cash aid reforms have had very limited success. There has therefore been plenty of focus on how with punishment and control of vulnerable people in Denmark you can swing the whip over them, to get them to find a job, and it has had a very poor effect. It does not create any extra jobs; it does not create jobs; it does not get people into work. At the same time, we have not wanted to give priority to the area with the limited resources it actually requires, precisely in order to create a carrot effect and positive incentives and a positive approach, what to say, to look at the desire that people in society have to contribute. So there has been a quite wrong focus on the part of the government here, which we in the Enhedslisten strongly disagree with. In Enhedslisten's view, the former growth centre was quite successful, and we have also noted that the SFI at least believes that the Centre has helped the social contractors involved and thus fulfilled its function. And that is why the question could also be asked, and we will do so from up here too, whether we should not just start starting up that centre again and continue running it as it went on before it was closed, rather than perhaps setting up a completely new centre, as the alternative suggests. At first we think that it would be more flexible simply to start up the growth center again, as we knew it, because it actually worked very well. It is possible that we are talking about nuances here, but we are certainly very prepared to discuss this in the further work of the committee. At any rate, there is something quite clear here where there is the possibility of making some sensible steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151844	I can see one for a brief remark. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151850	When Mr. Rune Lund stands on Parliament's platform and says that the reforms that have been made relate, for example, to: cash benefits, cash benefits, early retirement, etc., etc. Hasn't worked, what's Mr. Builder's building? Rune Lund watched it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513151907	I'm building it, for example. We can see that, in the context of the reform of the social security system which the current government is in charge of, the figures show that it has a very low employment effect. At the same time, however, we can see that thousands of people are made poorer by people who are already at the bottom of society; people who are already those with the least resources in society. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If we talk about cash benefits, we should not forget that if we are to get cash benefits in this country at all, then we must not own more than 10,000 kroner.; then you should not have values that can be translated so that you have for more than 10,000 kr. These are the people over whom the government, the blue bloc and, in particular, the Liberal Alliance constantly swings the whip. Then it is just that I am wondering that when there is an initiative here where you can support socio-economic companies, you will not give a tiny amount of money to see if you can do nothing positive. There I have to say: there the government, the Liberal Alliance and the blue bloc will be a completely different path than the Enhedslisten will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152019	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152021	Sir. Rune Lund stood on Parliament's platform and said that the reforms did not work, that it was not something that increased employment. That's factually wrong. It's nonsense to stand here and say. Innumerable analyses have been carried out, looking into the real world and looking at the importance of various reforms for employment, for real, real people in the real world. And they work. They're working. They have increased employment. It's amazing that Enhedslisten and, in this case, sir. Rune Lund can stand and say one falsehood after another about the reforms adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing and which have had an effect in the real world. They have increased employment. In the absence of those reforms, there would have been more people on transfers with lower incomes than they have now, i.e. because we have made reforms. So don't stand there and say things that you can't document. It's not dignified, to be honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152128	I can document, and it has been established that the cash aid reform that the Liberal Alliance is behind, which the government is behind, creates very few jobs, but throws thousands of people into poverty. And the cash aid reform is extremely relevant here, because this proposal is precisely about looking at how marginalised people in the labour market can have an opportunity to play a role and get in and become part of society. I just have to say that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is very willing to swing the whip, but when it comes to making positive incentives and doing something that can make a real difference, such as the Social Research Institute. I also believe that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen didn't join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152213	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152258	Thank you. As several other rapporteurs have mentioned, some initiatives have been taken in relation to social economic enterprises, as the Minister mentioned. And we think it is important that the initiatives that have been taken be allowed to develop, if you like, and evaluated before taking new initiatives in exactly the same area. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution tabled by the alternative. To Mr. Rune Lund, I would say that we are all concerned here about those who are on the edge of the labour market. We in the Liberal Alliance are also doing this, and we have put forward proposals on how to get some of the most vulnerable people back into the labour market. And these are some proposals that I hope the Enhedslisten will support. But I have to say that because we want to reduce some of the world's highest benefits and reform the cash aid system in order to get people into the labour market, because we know from the real world that it actually works, it does not mean that you want to whip someone. It just isn't. It's a rhetoric that I don't think you should use. We may disagree on what initiatives should be taken. However, I do not think it is beneficial for the political debate to question the intention of our and other parties to bring people who have lived many years on transfer income into the labour market. The unit list never helps to reform anything in the transfer income system. Many of them have been made and, as I said in my question to Mr. Rune Lund, when he was standing on the platform, they worked. They have increased employment. They have moved people who lived a life on transfer income and under the control of the municipality and everything else, into the labour market and made them master of their own lives. It is for me to see a very, very responsible social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152523	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152535	I would just like to comment on the fact that when the cash benefits reform was presented by the government in November, a reform was presented which would affect around 150,000 people, but which according to the government itself would create a few hundred jobs. And then it is just that I am asking: is this a sensible way to reform? We don't think so in the Enhedslisten. We would like to make reforms that improve the conditions for cash benefits recipients. We also know where we want to take the money from, because we want to tax some of the people that the Liberal Alliance will never tax. We would like to make a tax reform in which we reduce the tax burden on the people who earn 300,000 kroner. or less. And we would like to raise the tax for those who earn the most in this society. We're gonna do a redistribution. In general, we would also really like to look at how to make a carrot and look at the good wishes, opportunities and good intentions that people have to be part of this society and participate, rather than always starting from the fact that the only way to get people who are having a hard time doing something is to punish them and give them whip and take the money away from them. That is what, unfortunately, we are constantly hearing from the Liberal Alliance, that is, it is the medicine that needs to be used to get people into work and away from support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152657	When Enhedslisten says they want to improve the conditions for cash benefits recipients, it means more money. I remember that the Enhedslisten put forward a proposal that nobody on transfer income should have less than DKr 15 000. a month. This would significantly reduce employment in Denmark and mean that people who were previously in work came on transfer income and were outside the working community. That would make us all poorer, and it is throughout a characteristic of Enhedslisten's policy that in the real world it would not do anything good for people because it would make the whole of society poorer and mean fewer resources in schools and hospitals. There would be far fewer people in employment and thus had the opportunity to be master of their own lives because they served their own stay here in life and could support their families and be positive role models for their children. That is the reality of Enhedslisten's policy. But the Enhedslisten is formidable to appear as a party that cares and is very sympathetic. But we should not judge parties on that. They must be judged on the consequences of their policy, and the consequences of Enhedslisten's policy are a poorer Denmark with more people on transfer income. We do not, in fact, think that is a goal to be pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152832	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152833	The consequence of Enhedslisten's policy is that if we could decide, we would improve conditions for e.g. cash benefits recipients. We would also vote in favour of a very good proposal such as this, which increases employment opportunities for vulnerable groups. We would, for example, like: So, on the other hand, don't make irresponsible decisions like lowering corporate tax. Nor would we make irresponsible decisions like lowering the top tax. It hardly provides any jobs, but it costs billions of dollars for the Treasury. Nor would we take irresponsible decisions to buy new expensive bombers that cost 1 billion. kr. The piece, which costs billions of dollars in maintenance and operation for the next 20-30 years. That is what we call responsible politics in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513152916	So let us take corporate tax: this is such an example that Enhedslisten is not in contact with the real world and maybe does not really care very much about how taxes work. The company tax is paid by employees. It is paid by employees through lower real wages because it means less investment in new technology, new machinery in companies that can increase productivity and thus increase the real wage of employees in companies. They're the ones who pay it. The same with the top treasure. The top tax will also increase productivity in Denmark. This means higher real wages, not only for those who have reduced the top tax, but also for other people, public employees, and in the way we regulate transfers, even for transfer income recipients, if we continue to regulate in this way. So again: Enhedslisten's policy will not make anyone richer, including those with the smallest incomes in society. It will make people poorer. The policy of the Enhedslisten has been tried in many countries and has not been successful in any country on any continent where it has been tested. That's reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513153039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513153047	Thank you very much. Today we are talking about socio-economic enterprises because the alternative has put forward a proposal to set up a centre for socio-economic enterprises. We've had something similar to it until we got a new government. They then chose to remove these initiatives, among others. because they wanted to find money for their craftsman's allowance. This was one of the things that we radically thought was a rather unsavory idea, and I just have to say that it is at least one of the places where you have to remember that every time you spend money, they also have to be found somewhere, and that was one of the unfortunate extensions of this housing job scheme. But that should not prevent us from supporting the restoration of this area. We think it would be interesting to look at if you were to set up such a centre here, if you could work with some of the private people who are already doing this sort of thing like the Social Capital Fund, which is working with a lot of social economic companies and helping them find finance and also with the part that is really crucial, namely that you make it financially run around. For these important social measures taken by companies will only be sustainable and sustainable in the long term if you can also make your business run around. We would therefore like to enter into a very good and constructive discussion with the Alternative on how this can be done and the 8 million. kr., as this costs, we'll be able to find some way. So the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513153229	I do not see any brief comments, so thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513153246	Thank you. It is a very good motion for a resolution tabled by the alternative. Social economic companies were a major focus for SF when we were in government, and I cooperated closely with Annette Vilhelmsen, then Minister for Business and Growth, who set up this Committee for Social Economic Enterprises, which in 2013 submitted their recommendations. The then Minister of Industry presented them and said that the desire to set up the committee and get some concrete recommendations on what should happen was both about getting some innovation and innovation in the labour market and some new ways of thinking about businesses. And it was also about involving some of those who find it difficult to enter the ordinary labour market and who are on the edge of it and perhaps need some other conditions, so that you could help to give some of these people dignity and make them self-supporting. But it actually also strengthens the economy very, very much. In the European Union there is a lot of focus on this, and in Britain, as far as I know, there are 70 000 socio-economic companies with almost a million people employed, and this contributes twenty billion pounds to the British economy. So there is absolutely no contradiction between economic considerations and creating the framework for social economic enterprises, on the contrary. While the committee was working on this in 2013, I was visiting the Netherlands, which has some exciting ideas for different ways of developing social economic companies. They have both some who are totally dependent on public authorities and the state, but they also have some exciting collaborations between the municipality, the state and private companies, where the municipality and the state contribute financially. These people get a slightly lower salary, but you can also maintain some jobs that would not otherwise be economic in having in a country like Holland, and those we met were really, really happy with their work. Because nobody thinks it's fun to go home if you can contribute, even if it's under some other conditions. There is often talk of the spacious Danish labour market, but it is not very spacious. In fact, it is very brutal and there are very high demands for flexibility, changeability, productivity and all that sort of thing. Some of us can handle that, but unfortunately we also see a lot of people breaking and getting stress, etc. We have a labour market that actually places incredibly high demands on all of us, and there is just a group of people in this country who, in one way or another, cannot pay. Sometimes some of the challenges that these people have are also turned to an advantage. The company Specialists is one of the best examples of this. The founder had a son with autism and said: How can I turn this into a favor? And then he created a workplace where what in parts of society is seen as a disadvantage was turned to an advantage. There is also a place like the House Venture in North Jutland, Nørresundby, where the owner says: We deliver audit work to companies, and there is no compromise, because money needs to be made etc., but we can think new about some of our employees who do accounts and audit if they need to work half-time or have an office for themselves or whatever. So this isn't about compromising on the quality of what's being delivered. It's just a matter of thinking a little new, in terms of how we can create jobs. Another advocate of really developing socio-economic companies is the founder of Grameen Bank, Muhammad Yunus, who got micro-loans on the international agenda and thus helped to contribute to social economic companies, but also to ordinary companies. So this is something that concerns people and politicians in countries all over the world because it's all about the social, economic and sustainable bottom line, and because it's really, really expensive for a society to only be interested in the economic bottom line and just say to a lot of people: we can't use you, mind your own business. It is not worthy of human dignity, and it is also murky in economic terms. So I think that this resolution is very much in line with some of the good initiatives that I am actually proud that the SF really took the lead when we were in government but which the current government has rolled back. And the SF would really like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513153803	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513153815	It is a very sympathetic proposal put forward by the alternative here, that is to say that something must be done for social economic enterprises. I just do not think that the way forward is to set up a centre which has once been set up and closed down, but that instead we should focus on what we can do to give space and the opportunity to create more innovative solutions, more cooperation, more mobilisation of the resources available in Danish society and which are not being used. This should be done both for the sake of the economy, so that we do not, like parking some people in a corner, if we could otherwise use them for something sensible, but not least for their own sakes, so that they are allowed to do something that has value, that makes a difference and that can make life easier for other people. Several of the speakers have already mentioned some of the companies involved in what I myself have also visited, for which I have great respect and a great deal of veneration. Such a situation will not be solved by the restoration of a knowledge centre in this area. What needs to be done is to create conditions, a situation and a climate that will also enable us to take those initiatives ourselves. And then, of course, I think that the state should help everything it can to ensure that the legislation is open to it so that there is no unnecessary bumps on the way for it. However, it is not necessary to create a new bureaucracy, a new centre, in order to address such an important issue that I think everyone has sympathy for, that is to say there will be room and opportunity for everyone, and that we can also help some other people. We are also opposed to the funding of the proposal, which means that it will be more expensive to be a car owner. After all, many ordinary people are themselves being hit now and here. They need mobility. They need to get to and from work, buy in, be family, etc. So we will not be able to accept funding under any circumstances, and so will we have to say no to the proposal. But the idea of doing something is sympathetic. We are simply opposed to bureaucracy in setting up a centre which has been abandoned once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513154030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so I will give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513154049	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank both the Minister and the various rapporteurs. Thank you to those who made the sympathetic statement, i.e. those who support the ideas. I think that the expression: it is a sympathetic proposal, is so funny, because then you know what comes next, don't you? You know right away that means thank you, but no thanks. Yet it is an expression of understanding. But also thank you very much for the support for the proposal, and thank you to the Minister for what I heard both the direct words, but also the words between the words: that there is an awareness that there is a need for at least some of the ideas that lie in this, seen from the Minister's chair. Of course, I'm glad to hear that. In the alternative, as you know, we are working from three bottom lines: the economic, the social and the environmental bottom line. While the typical company is often seen to have a primary focus on the economic bottom line, there are some companies and entrepreneurs that involve the social bottom line as an equal purpose. Indeed, it is the socio-economic enterprises and entrepreneurs who are taking on wider interests than only this economic development potential. In the alternative, we really want to support social economic entrepreneurship and business as much as possible, and that is why we have put forward this proposal. Of course, we have also put it forward because we believe that there is a huge gap and a need after closing the former Growth Centre for Social Economic Enterprises. In the alternative, we want to support the socio-economic initiatives, because many of the socio-economic companies are already taking a huge responsibility for the social sustainability that we have in our society. They do this by creating jobs and meaningful communities, for example, for those who cannot work full-time because of a disability or mental or physical illness. These companies often provide an interesting alternative to conventional companies because there is just as much focus on the social bottom line as on the economic one. In other words, companies often contribute both to creating jobs and to promoting social sustainability. We want more of this because, as a society, we must be able to accommodate everyone, both those who are able to take a job easily and those who, for various reasons, may have difficulty in doing so. In the alternative, therefore, we believe that it is useful to improve the living conditions of social economic entrepreneurs, with a focus on creating life value for their fellow human beings and communities. They have more focus on creating it than on creating the economic value in itself. In this entrepreneurship package, which I mentioned earlier when we discussed the previous proposals, we have a number of different proposals on how to strengthen social entrepreneurship. And when we have chosen to make this proposal, it is because we believe that it is really the first step, namely that we need to have a centre that can advise and help entrepreneurs who want to start up with this, or those companies that are already in the process. We are also proposing that it should have a Nordic focus, which they did not have in the former centre, which has been chosen to close now. We do this on the basis that we have some welfare societies that are very similar in the Nordic countries, and we believe that it is perfectly obvious to use that forum to see how we can exchange experience about what exactly social economic companies can do and contribute positively to society. I also hope that the Minister will take this on board, in other words this: we are learning from each other across the country, but also that we are looking at the good partners we have, who work in communities that are similar to ours and who are also working very hard to develop the social economic form of business. So thank you for the treatment. I can see from the rapporteur's speeches that have been that I have to look forward to an exciting committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513154520	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513154538	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513154610	Thank you. The authors of the motion for a resolution want to regulate the possibility for mortgage credit institutions to increase the rates of contributions and price cut fees. In concrete terms, it is proposed that the rates of contributions and price cut fees should not be increased during the duration of the loan. In specific cases where stricter regulatory requirements involve increased capital requirements, it is proposed that supervisory authorities may grant derogations to temporarily increase contribution rates. In these cases, the FSA must ensure that the contribution rates correspond only to the increased capital requirement and that the rates are reduced once the capital requirement is met. If the rule does not increase the contribution rates, the mortgage credit institution becomes, among other things, the mortgage credit institution. are required not to pay dividends to the owner or bonus to the management for a period of 2 years. I would like to start by stating that it is very important for the government to ensure good lending opportunities for Danish home owners in all parts of Denmark. I also believe that our special Danish mortgage system contributes to this. At the same time, however, I would like to make it quite clear that the price controls proposed in the motion for a resolution are not a sensible way to go. It is a road that risks making Danish mortgage loans more expensive. The primary source of revenue for mortgage credit institutions is the contribution rates, and thus the proposed limitation will be a major influence on the profit base of institutions. This can have both serious and inappropriate consequences for institutions and also for borrowers. The need to increase revenue is prompted not only by increased capital requirements but also by a wide range of other factors. The motion for a resolution overlooks the fact that mortgage banks may experience unforeseen losses on loans resulting from property price falls and financial crises. In addition, increased profitability requirements may also arise from rating agencies, investors, etc. If price controls are introduced into the mortgage market, the Danish mortgage institutions will not be able to trade and meet market requirements and expectations. This is potentially going to damage the financial markets' confidence in mortgage banks. A deterioration in confidence can include: result in a impaired rating on the bonds. This means, of course, that the price of the bonds will fall and the interest rate will rise, and as the interest rate on mortgage bonds is the rate paid by the borrower, the proposal will therefore entail higher interest rates for all home owners. Overall, the proposal can therefore make it more expensive to obtain mortgage loans for the Danish homeowners. Moreover, the proposed limitations on the earnings potential of institutions may result in the contribution rate being higher at the time of the conclusion of the loan agreement than at the present time. This can be done to ensure the institution's coverage of increased costs which may arise during the life of the loan. It is the government's view that it is free competition in the credit market that creates the best opportunities for customers to obtain the good and cheap loans. That is the competition that we must ensure and strengthen, and this is not done by introducing price controls. In order to increase transparency and consumer protection in the setting of interest and charges by financial undertakings, I tightened the rules in the autumn, among other things. in relation to the change of interest and fees in current customer relations and the warning of such changes. That was, for example, the case. specified that financial undertakings must provide adequate justification for changes in fees and interest rates. The rules also apply to mortgage credit institutions. The government wants to create further clarity in this area. Against this background, I have launched a number of initiatives. First of all, as has already been mentioned, I have set up a committee of experts in this Parliament to look at the transparency and mobility of the mortgage market. The Committee of Experts shall, inter alia: the development of the contribution rates is addressed, including how future capital requirements affect mortgage credit institutions as well as the costs associated with the customer's change of mortgage credit institution. The report of the Committee shall be ready by 1 September and shall include recommendations for necessary adjustments to the rules. Finally, I can also inform you that the Competition Council will examine the competition in the mortgage market and then a price portal for mortgage loans will be launched before the end of the year so that Danish home owners can compare prices and find the cheapest loans. It's even part of a broad political agreement that translates this price portal. In view of the above reasons, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155053	Thank you. I have three comments to make in short. The first is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155101	Thank you. After all, there was a major debate here a few months ago, and the Minister has also taken some initiatives. But this contribution rate thing has been under investigation and debated for years. Now the debate was renewed. But I have some very clear questions for the Minister. Does the Minister consider that there is fair competition and transparency today? Does the Minister consider that it is now reasonable costs to switch from one company to another? And does the Minister think it reasonable that if you have taken a 30-year fixed-rate loan and you yourself think it is the conservative and sensible choice, you can see very, very high increases in the contribution rates, that is, when you have already reached an agreement and it is very, very expensive to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155204	Thank you for the questions that I have been given in the past, namely when we had the pleasure of sitting in consultation on the same issue. I would also like to sign that SF is part of the financial conciliation circle on this issue. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also attended the meeting where I presented what I intended to take of initiatives. That is why, of course, I also hope that the SF is still part of that conciliation circle, despite the fact that a resolution has now been tabled. But I don't want it hurting the SF this Friday. But I would just like to give the same answer that I gave last time. A large number of criticisms have been raised, and what has been mentioned by the SF is another study. No, the study that is now has a completely different purpose from the study that I think was finished in 2014 and that looked at the sub-elements of this area. With the many concerns and with the many relevant considerations that have been raised in the public debate, I think this deserves an in-depth study. But before it's finished, I'm not going to conclude on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155314	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155315	I actually asked some very specific questions, i.e. whether the Minister thinks it is too expensive to switch from one company to another. After all, it is not only the administrative costs that are being covered there. And I asked whether the Minister thinks that there is enough transparency and competition and so on. But now the minister mentioned this with the conciliation circle. And I also mentioned that I really think that this was a question of competition and consumer protection, which all parties could well be aware of. But I'll show up when the minister calls. And at the meeting I also said on behalf of the SF that we didn't think this was a good idea. Now it is usually the case in a conciliation circle that you have to agree to move forward. However, the Minister said that it may well be that SF has that view, but now, as Minister, I am taking this initiative. So we cannot maintain both the illusion of a conciliation circle and then break the principle that all parties must agree. That is why we must, of course, take steps. And there we think this proposal is very balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155423	Well, now I'm not going to botanize, compared to what happened at that meeting, I guess on March 4. We can do that afterwards. I think that deserves a deeper talk. But if it was the case that I didn't think there was a challenge, then there was no reason to set up this committee of experts. If everything went on a leash, there was no reason to let some people analyze whether transparency is good enough; whether good practice is clear enough; whether the competitive situation is good enough. There are a large number of challenges, but if it were the case that I was already able to determine how these challenges were to be met, then there was no reason, I think, to have this debate or, for that matter, wait for the work of the committee. And I am not in a position to diagnose it as clearly as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, I have to say. Unfortunately, I'm not so clever as to be able to figure out exactly how to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155521	The next brief remark is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155525	What is behind this proposal is that there is no real competition in this area and that the rates of contributions have become a genuine cash machine for mortgage banks. The mortgage banks have gone from being something that was customer-owned and based on the principle of resting in itself, to being today something that is owned by shareholders and banks and that, therefore, in the new forms of ownership, uses the contribution rates to increase earnings, yes, as a cash machine. One of the proposals in this resolution is to say that once an agreement has been reached, an agreement is an agreement. We should not just be able to say afterwards from the mortgage credit institution: now we are simply raising the contribution rate so that we can make a greater profit. At the same time, the customer is placed in a situation where the customer is actually locked because it is so expensive to move the mortgage institution that there is in fact no option to choose anything else. So how does the Minister feel about the principle that an agreement is an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155639	If anyone is following this debate, and this is something that cannot be ruled out, then first of all, it must be said that the rates of contributions are one side of these discussions. The other side is the trend in interest rates. If we look at how interest rate developments have been over recent years, we can see that, fortunately, the interest rate can be said if you have to borrow money has fallen, and therefore Denmark, if we look at the prints that are from other contributions, is still really, really well placed. We are one of the cheapest countries in Europe in terms of housing funding. I say this simply to tell those who may not be aware that we are in a very, very favourable situation in relation to mortgage lending. The fact that an agreement is an agreement was also discussed during the conciliation procedure, and I said that, I think, it is the case that when you make an agreement with a mortgage credit institution, you also sign that there may be increases in the contribution rate. But then the question is very relevant and I think that there is no reason to talk us away from each other on such an afternoon on how to give the reasons and the rules we have today for how to give the reasons are clear enough and good enough. I think that is absolutely a good discussion to take, and that is precisely why I think we should have it analysed through. It may well be that there are things that need to be clarified. I will certainly not rule that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155804	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155807	It is also good to go into it, but what is behind this proposal is that we have seen for years now how mortgage banks have used the contribution rate to draw money out of consumers and put it in the pockets of shareholders and banks. It is true that interest rates have fallen, but if we still have a contribution rate that is being used for this, then we have a regular redistribution from customers to banks and shareholders, which we think is unfair because there is no real competitive situation. It is our view that, in view of the lack of competition, we simply need to make stricter rules on how to increase the contribution rate. That is where we say that the starting point must be that, if an agreement has been reached, the contribution rate cannot be increased. It is a principle that we believe is necessary simply to protect consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155901	That is the point of democracy. So this is just a model that I think is completely wrong. That's quite fair. That's also why we're here in the Folketing. We should, of course, like to disagree on some points. That is the point of democracy. This is just a model that I think is completely wrong. In other words, to create such a dogmatic price cap model, where the guardians' council in the FSA should almost sit and approve it, I simply do not think it is at all in the interest of the Danish homeowners. This is going to mean that the rating gets worse, and not least that will mean, I think, that interest rates are going to rise, as I said in my speech, and then we are in the same vein. For then it may be that you try to fix the rates of contributions, but if interest rates then go the other way, the result may be the same, or it may be even more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155943	The immediate last to a brief remark is Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513155948	Thank you. I'm gonna see if the minister really thinks that the FSA or the Competition Authority is the guardians' advice. What we have proposed here is precisely that mortgage credit institutions can raise the contribution rates if they can prove that there is a real capital need. And I find it hard to understand why the Minister is not interested in protecting the property owners from these sudden changes in the rates of contributions. You can always discuss, in relation to the types of loans you take, whether there should be the same security if you take a flex loan, because there is some way you are prepared for change. But it is different for a customer, a home owner who takes a 30-year fixed-rate loan, because the customer knows exactly what the household can hold and how much money there is for the fixed costs. Does the Minister really believe that the mortgage banks should be allowed to raise the contribution rate as they please?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160055	I shall start by reading from the motion for a resolution, because it is true that the motion for a resolution states that there should be a supervisory authority. It was in my world that it had to be the SEC. Of course, it can also be a completely different supervisory authority. I don't have to hide that. And, after all, when I said the guardians' advice, it was also meant in quotation marks. What the question is about is that there is political disagreement here. I do not buy the premise that the market should not be allowed to prevail here. I do not think it would benefit the homeowners who are introducing this price cap model, which has been proposed both in the proposal, but not least in the comments. I have, I think, explained very educationally why I think it is going the other way by creating insecurity and instability around the Danish mortgage model, namely because you have a market mechanism that has been put out of effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160201	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160205	However, as I also heard the Minister's speech, the Minister likens the mortgage banks to ordinary financial institutions. I would just like to remind you that the old mortgage credit tank was, of course, owned by the citizens, that it was owned by the borrowers. Thus they had a guarantee that the contributions did not just suddenly increase. Will the Minister support our Danish mortgage institution, or is it forward-looking to equate with ordinary financial institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160240	I support the Danish mortgage model. I am doing nothing more at the moment than traveling around Europe to explain what really good qualities that model has in it and how it has survived for hundreds of years. But the question is, of course, and I think that is very relevant to discuss, and that is also why I think this is a rather awkward discussion. We are, of course, politically divided about the rates of contributions, which we are discussing a great deal. If the rates of contributions increase, what argument is used to increase the rates of contributions? That is exactly what I have now asked for an analysis, because it may well be • and there may be good arguments for • that we need to tighten up the notice in relation to the arguments to be given for it, but there may also be good arguments for raising the contribution rate without any problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160328	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160340	The proposal for increased regulation of the possibility for banks and mortgage associations to raise contributions rates and price cut fees is a key issue. Basically, it is a question of whether it is okay that consumers should suddenly experience large increases in their loans in the light of the desire of the aforementioned financial institutions. The question is particularly topical again, since Nykredit, as we are all aware, came with a very diffuse message to their customers about at least not very many customers who understood what was going on and that now the contribution rates had to be raised. I do not think that the increases we have seen, either in recent times or over the last four or five years and possibly longer, are in order, and this position is not new to the Socialists. I think I can say that the mortgage credit institutions are quite aware that I am not always satisfied with their doings and barns, but when we are not satisfied with these price increases, it is precisely because there is no clear link in the reasons given by Nykredit for them. On the contrary, one gets the impression that it is seen as a simple and easy way of increasing one's own earnings, and that should not be a burden on consumers. Consumers can hardly move their loans if they are dissatisfied with these price increases because it is a significant cost to have to move their loans, typically 1%. of the principal. I have said before in various contexts that it is like a kind of stupid penalty that you will pay if you want to move it, and that is something that hampers mobility in the mortgage credit market, and thus competition is also at risk of weakening. I recognise that these companies must of course make money, and I also support the fact that mortgage credit institutions meet the strong capital requirements imposed by the legislator, because their rating risks getting worse if they are not sufficiently upholstered, and that will only mean more expensive loans for Danish home owners. However, I would like to emphasise that there is not enough transparency in the way in which the fee structure of mortgage credit institutions is lumped together, and the Socialists also have various proposals on how to work with that transparency and precisely to increase it in a way that at least benefits consumers, so that we can promote competition. The Socialists welcome the fact that the Minister has now launched five initiatives to ensure a future mortgage system. The rumor is that it can also be expected that the other mortgage companies will predict increases in the contribution rates. It is therefore not only Nykredit and therefore it is of course important to clarify in detail what is at the root of these activities. One of the initiatives of the Minister is that he has set up a rapid-working committee which, among other things, is: the area of contribution rates must be buried, and that is what we are talking about today. We must also look at the tighter capital requirements and see whether there are legal and economic barriers in changing mortgage institutions and whether the good practice of the Financial Business Act is up to date. These are all things that the previous government also had on the agenda, among other things. with two SF ministers on board as business ministers and then also a social democratic minister. So there's been a lot of focus on this area for a really long time. The Socialists therefore want to await the work of the committee, which is expected to be completed on 1 September this year, so that, in view of this, we can take the right steps towards the situation we are in now. That is why we do not support the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to remind you that, as you know, there is a banking group which, among other things, has been set up. one of the proposers is a member of today, so I hope that the problem can be resolved and dealt with within the conciliation circle. Anything else is perhaps a tooth too fast and too clever in my opinion, because you are a part of the conciliation circle, and I hope that the entire conciliation circle will be constructive in the work that awaits. Because solving this problem is of exceptional importance to the economy of a great many people and also to the economy of business owners. On the socialist side, at least it is not the will to strengthen competition, ensure transparency and proper conditions on the mortgage market, but this is not the resolution we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160830	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160836	The rapporteur speaks of wanting to strengthen competition, and we would like to do so in this area too. But the real problem is that there will never ever be real competition in this area. This is due to the fact that the costs of changing the loan provider are as high as they are, i.e. that it takes several years to earn money and when they should have been earned, the interest rate of the new loan provider may have risen in the meantime. This is an area where competition is so non-existent that we in the Folketing simply have to make a regulation that makes consumers stronger. And that is the reason for this proposal. When I hear what the rapporteur says, I hear many good intentions, and I also hear very good will and also an anger at what is happening at the moment as being totally unacceptable. However, I must also say that the initiatives that I hear the Socialists will be taking part in this situation where mortgage credit institutions have become some real money machines that take money from consumers I simply do not think are enough. So what does it take to ensure that the Socialists will help to tighten the screw further with the mortgage banks, so that they do not just continue to be money machines?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513160951	As I said, we await the work of the committee set up by the Minister. And the committee's commission contains exactly the things that the Socialists, together with, among others, have to say. SF, when they were also part of the previous government, has put on the table in relation to having to negotiate those things. So we wait for that work. However, I should like to point out that I think it is a good thing that Mr. Rune Lund has a crystal ball, which I apparently do not have, since he believes that there will never ever be any real competition. Now let's see if those initiatives, when they are rolled over the stage edge, can not yet help to support the competition. And the recent concrete controversy surrounding Nykredit has just shown that there is god competition. The customers are moving. Well, they're moving to other providers on the market. The last thing I want to say is that, frankly, I think that Enhedslisten is a bit unsolidarian with Danish homeowners, as they want to go solo on this very point. It is then to play gambling with the future economic structure of the Danish mortgage market if you start putting our international rating under pressure. I think that's unsolidarian.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161059	I should just like to point out that we are not summoning the higher powers in this Chamber. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161106	Thank you. What we're sure will happen with this proposal... and that's why we put it forward... is a redistribution from banks and shareholders to customers. And the reason why it is necessary to make stricter regulation here is, of course, that banks and shareholders today can pump money out of consumers because there is no real competition. It is very, very difficult to see that real competition should come unless at least some of the initiatives contained in this proposal begin to be taken, for example. the fact that as a customer you have to pay only the real administrative costs of switching, not a profit or an overhead to the mortgage company. So I would like to say that I find it a pity that the Socialists will not be helping to go any harder with regard to the mortgage institutions that are currently working money machines with their customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161200	Well, now it is precisely that I am a Social Democrat and not a member of the Enhedslisten, and that is why I recognise that it is quite okay that we have privately owned companies that actually make money. I also think it's okay that you make money for your shareholders or for your owners. In fact, this is the way to get growth and create jobs for the benefit of society. And I would like to stress that it is private money that we are dealing with; it is some money, a capital that is owned by some. What we want from the Social Democrats is competition and greater transparency, and that is what is lacking there. And if the rapporteur, sir... Rune Lund, had listened to what I said in my rapporteur's speech, he would have heard that at least 75%. of which it was highly critical of mortgage credit institutions. We just do not want to support the motion for a resolution that Mr. Rune Lund has put forward with others as it goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161250	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Will the work that is being set in motion, and which the Social Democrats are involved in, ensure that there is a tightening up in relation to credit institutions being able to raise the rates of contributions, as is appropriate to them? Will it also take care that the rates of contributions will be reduced again when, for example, there is an increase in expenditure? has been a capital requirement and the contribution rates have therefore been raised and the capital requirement is no longer there? Will there be a rule to ensure that mortgage credit institutions will not be able to afford to pay dividends to shareholders by means of increased contribution rates? And will there be an opportunity for customers to change cheaper, at least cheaper, than they can today? After all, we are calling for a change of mortgage credit institution free of charge. Is this the sort of thing that lies in the work of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161353	I have to correct Mrs Josephine Fock: we have not been involved in any work. It is a government committee that has been set up. We are waiting with great excitement, just as I imagine the alternative does, the result of the work. And then we'll go critically to the macrons when we see the result of it. We're not in any work. As to whether you can move freely, I would say that nothing is free in this life, and neither is there when you have to move things. I would just like to emphasise that what we think about fees and have always meant as a good consumer policy position is that when we are dealing with fees and, incidentally, also removal fees • it must only cover the administrative costs that are involved. It's not supposed to be a milking machine. But we shall deal with all this in good time when we see the result. So as to whether the contribution rate can fluctuate up and down, I would say that when, on the one hand, the mortgage credit institution provides mortgages that are irrefutable, it is essential that, on the other hand, the mortgage credit institution also has access to change those conditions, especially in order to adapt to changing conditions in society. So that's 30 years we're talking about. It can be both increasing losses and it can be increased demands from the authorities as we see it, or from investors. I do not know whether Mrs Josephine Fock is aware of the wording of the loan agreement, but there is, of course, a passage in it in which it says and you can read it through that you are entitled to it today as a mortgage institution. So that's why a deal is a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161516	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161520	Thank you. We also follow the work eagerly. But it was because Mrs Mette Reissmann almost made it sound as if the Social Democrats were part of the work in question, because where is it that the Social Democrats have a guarantee that the things that the Social Democratic Party places emphasis on are? Then I am trying, because I find it hard to find out, to ask if we say that the committee work does not land in the way that the Social Democratic Party wants it, what the Social Democratic Party really wants to tighten up, so that consumers have a greater chance of achieving transparency, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161556	I am sorry that I have expressed myself in such a way that Mrs Josephine Fock understands that, like myself, I should have seen myself on that committee. I am very sorry about that. That is certainly not the way we see it. I would also like to say that we await the work on the mandate which lies precisely with the committee. We will go very critically to it if we do not see those things. Again, I would say that 75%. of the things I have said in my speech have been extremely critical of mortgage banks, but at the same time I am also very, very aware that we must have a very strong mortgage industry in Denmark to the delight of Danish home owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161635	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161643	Thank you. The Consumer Council Think, as I have heard the rapporteur in other contexts at least, is very pleased that we have as a consumer watchdog and that does not mean that we should follow all the recommendations Slavically, but at least that is something that we are listening to has been out suggesting that in order to create increased competition it must be free or very cheap to change mortgage companies. And one of the proposals in this motion for a resolution is precisely to say, as Mr. Rune Lund also pointed out that there must be no profit for a mortgage company in the event of such a change, but that only the administrative costs may be associated with it. What does the rapporteur think of the Consumer Council's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161734	I am glad that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentions the Consumer Council Think, because that is my old place of work. So I really like the Consumer Council Think, and I would say that a good mantra at the Consumer Council Think has always been that fees should reflect precisely the work-related costs that is the very fine long word that the Consumer Council Think uses. And that's why it's what I expect to get out of this work... it's the work-related cost of handling fees that we're going to look at. And this must be put forward by mortgage credit institutions, so that we know what level we are moving to. It is probably not close to exactly the costs that we have seen today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161816	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161819	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur acknowledges that the rapporteur has a great deal of insight into this area too. And I think most people agree that there is no 1:1 ratio, in terms of what is being charged by a shift and what the real costs are. If this proposal concerned only that part, would the rapporteur be able to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161843	It is an extremely hypothetical question; it will depend on the wording and so on. But what we have seen here in relation to fees and charges by having to move loans of this nature is quite unacceptable and quite unreasonable. That is why the Social Democratic Party will also demand greater transparency in how the mortgage banks' fee structure is knitted together. Because as it is today, it's like looking into a black box.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161909	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513161917	I would also like to sign the motion for a resolution which the three parties have chosen to table for discussion here in the Danish Parliament today. As the rapporteurs before me have said, it is quite right that we in the Danish Parliament should also discuss in principle the way in which the very high rate of contribution rates and the price cut costs imposed on Danish mortgage customers, both companies and, in particular, private ones, are being dealt with in relation to the way in which this has happened in recent years. Total contribution rate expenditure in 2003 amounted to around 6 billion. kr., but up to 2013 the amount had risen to 12 billion. kr. In 2014, the amount had risen to 18.4 billion. kr., and the latest figure for 2015 shows well over 20 billion. kr. The related losses on these loans are less than 2 billion. kr., ergo there is a nice profit to the mortgage banks, and the loss has certainly not occurred. And on top of that 20 billion. kr. can then be put down about 2 billion. kr. In the form of price cutting contributions, which is also a revenue-generating measure for Danish mortgage credit institutions. Against this background, the Danish People's Party actually made a proposal back in May 2014 that we should have a mortgage commission in Denmark. It was important that we not only examined on the short track what happened in the Danish mortgage market, what it was for a competition that was there and what it was for a competition that was not there, but also what it was for some things we could see on the long track, compared to what could happen in Denmark in the future with a new cyclical development, etc., and what it could influence on these very divergent perceptions of what kind of a good and robust mortgage we had in Denmark. That is why, of course, we were also surprised that there were no parties at all supporting the proposal for a mortgage commission, which we recommended in 2014. None of the parties tabled this motion for a resolution either. And, of course, we have acknowledged that there is nothing to do about it, because when you do not have a majority, you do not have a majority, and then you have to act on it. But that does not change the fact that we had that policy at that time too, years ago, and before this much debate that just suddenly occurred, compared with what is going on is a distortion in relation to the contribution rate increases that have been made. We can also see that the large contribution rate increases that have been made have actually eroded over 75%. of the interest income earned by homeowners by having been able to obtain a cheaper interest rate on their loans instead. And then you can ask if it's good or bad. Well, it's a good thing you get a lower interest cost, but what good is it if you get an expense somewhere else? These are the famous swings and carousels, and that means that people have not really received any more funds. That is why, of course, we are pleased that a committee of experts has now finally been set up. That was the second best thing we could get. It came a few years too late, you might say, but better late than never. Now, of course, we also have to wait for the coal excavation that is under way, and of course we also have to deal with all the recommendations and proposals that might come from the Committee of Experts, in relation to what is of transparency in the area of transparency, there is something we can do better, in order to create greater transparency and competition between individual mortgage credit institutions? And what can we do to make it better for people to move their loans from one mortgage institution to another with less expense than that associated with it today? There are several things that can be done, and I recognise that there is not enough time to explain it all, but some of the things that we would at least like to see clarified by the Danish People's Party are, for example, that we can of course introduce some rules whereby there can only be a grace period for a smaller part of the loan than is the case today. Because we can also see that where the highest contribution rate is, there are those loans that have the relatively highest risk. And that is one of the things people choose to do. So it can make sense to have those elements examined. Then we would also like to put a stop to the increase in the rate of contributions and the increase in the cost of price cuts, for example during the first five years of the duration of a loan. And that is what we want to do in view of the fact that the average mortgage loan, as we have been told, runs for seven years, then refinances people, or else they have to buy a larger property or a smaller property, or they have to move in a rental home or something else. Therefore, there would be good reason to introduce a form of security for borrowers where there is a fixed-term clause on the loan agreements that might come. We would also like to take part in looking at the good practice that exists in the mortgage sector. In fact, we think it would make sense to go in and look at the rules of good practice. And then we will also look at the conditions for the restructuring of loans. So there's enough to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162437	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162444	What is the rapporteur's view of the specific elements contained in this motion for a resolution? Because I didn't hear much about that. In other words, the idea that in a market which is a market without real competition and which requires more regulation, that it is not possible to raise the rates of contributions without special conditions, and then a permit must be granted; the idea that if that happens, no dividends can be paid to the owners for the next two years; and the third point that if a customer experiences that the rate of contribution is raised, the customer must be able to move to another mortgage company and pay only the direct administrative costs associated with it. What is the rapporteur's position on the content of the resolution, which contains the three main points?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162534	Thank you. We can try to take them. As far as this is concerned, if you get a derogation to increase the contribution rate, you are obliged not to pay dividends to owners, that is not something we can agree with. It's unfavorable for those who are customers in the store. If we are to offer good mortgage products in Denmark, we also need to ensure that those who invest money in the area also receive them, and if you close off dividends, we also make it less interesting paper to buy bonds which are the basis for the loans that Danish borrowers receive. So you could say, did you do a good deed by making this limitation? No, actually, you haven't. In fact, it has been ensured that our borrowers will pay more for their loans. So we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162625	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162628	That was one suggestion. In my view, it is logical that if you have a rate of contribution that has been agreed, you cannot just raise it. If then there are special circumstances that make it have to be lifted, for example. It should not, of course, be the case that, at the same time, money can be pulled out to shareholders in this context. That's logic for me. But that was one of the proposals that is there. There are also the other two I mentioned earlier. Let us take it at the administrative cost, as Mrs Mette Reissmann also mentioned. As I heard Mrs Mette Reissmann, she said that it was actually something that was a real way of thinking about it. What is the position of the Danish People's Party in this matter, because you could possibly cut it here, so that support could be gathered and thus a majority in this Parliament, if for example. was about the administrative costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162716	I don't think you can do that. As I said, I await the recommendations of the committee of experts, and I am also relying on the fact that we are in a conciliation. We are some parties here in the Danish Parliament who have chosen to take responsibility for the overall financial policy in Denmark under Financial Stability, where Enhedslisten has chosen to be outside. There may be some advantages to this, including: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that we can make parade proposals here in the Danish Parliament, but it does not mean that we should support them. We would like people to have their loans moved free of charge, for example that there would be no registration fee for the state on the loans, but it will still be the case that if people choose to pay their loans early, they must also be able to take on a risk of price losses or exchange rate gains. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162800	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162805	Now the rapporteur mentioned a little about swings and carousels in the past, but it is not only homeowners or people who have a condominium that are affected by this. Shareholders are also affected. If you buy a co-operative apartment, you will take a bank loan at a higher interest rate than a mortgage, but the cooperative will typically have loans at a mortgage institution. Therefore, as a shareholder you will be hit twice, because you both have the higher bank interest rates, which have not fallen, as the interest rates have generally fallen, and you will also see your contribution to the cooperative association increase, because the cooperative association will be affected by these rising contribution rates overall. So I guess there's no way to talk about swings and carousels at all. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162905	Yes, I certainly agree that there are also the same challenges for many of those who have taken on mortgages, for example. jointly through an owner association or through a cooperative association. It is clear that this is the case if you have mortgages. Many people also have these very famous swap loans, some even in foreign currency and all sorts of other things. There are a lot of different loans, and of course I cannot explain them in the minute available to me. However, it is true that the cooperatives have the same challenges in terms of having their financing adjusted at a competitive level as all sorts of others who have to borrow real estate in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162943	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513162946	My point was, in fact, that they are being hit even harder and not like everyone else, because they both have the high interest rates on their bank loans, but are also being hit by increasing contributions to the cooperative, because the cooperative's mortgages via the contribution rates are increasing. So you get hit twice. That is why I really believe that you cannot even say that you are in a situation as bad as people who have a condo or a house. You actually feel even worse. That was my point. And then I don't think it should be said that there are a lot of people who have swap loans. Well, a lot of cooperatives including my own have a very conservative and cautious economy and do not have all sorts of strange loans. People get hit, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163034	Well, I still think that there are well over a hundred cooperative associations in Denmark that have the very bad swap loans. I think they are also worth mentioning on today's occasion. But who is affected and who is most affected, yes, we can take a long discussion on that. After all, we can also take the many homeowners who are technically insolvent due to the development of house prices and where the possibility of selling their houses in trade and vandals is difficult. There are simply fewer buyers for them than elsewhere. We also have people who have more expensive real estate loans on the last financing crown of their property. Well, if they can only borrow 80%. in mortgage loans, some choose to borrow maybe 20%. extra in addition to a bank, and there are some who have higher interest rates than others. So you can't make such a definition of that, which is completely in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163112	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163117	Thank you. I would like to know if the rapporteur could elaborate on what expectations the rapporteur has of the Committee of Experts, because the committee of experts has to identify what it looks like. But what kind of demands will the Danish People's Party make as this work is finished?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163139	Yes, I tried to mention some of them in my rapporteur's speech, but I had only five minutes at my disposal, and fortunately we have so many points we would like to take in that I was unable to mention them. But I mentioned some of them, and I would like to try to do it again. After all, we would like a number of recommendations to be made on how to increase transparency and openness in the competitive situation between the Danish mortgage institutions. We would like there to be some improved conditions for change and for switching between different mortgage institutions. We would like there to be an agreement on this, that you can only get the more expensive and riskier loans on a smaller part of your property, for example. that there may be only 60 per cent grace period. of the purchase price. We also say that there must be an end to increased rates of contributions and price cuts, for example during the first five years of the duration of a loan. We are also saying that there must be more stringent requirements for the good practice that is being applied today to mortgage credit institutions, and then we are also asking that there should be clear evidence when mortgage credit institutions come and announce that they will make very large increases in the rate of contributions to their borrowers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163246	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163300	As others have mentioned, the case of the contribution increases at Nykredit and Totalkredit has of course filled a great deal, and we, who are members of the Danish Parliament's Business, Growth and Export Committee, were invited to visit Nykredit at the beginning of January for a description of the case. This has then also meant that in the financial conciliation group we have been at a meeting of the Minister for Business and Growth and, as has already been explained here today, the Minister for Business and Growth has set up a working group, a committee of experts, which will shortly be presenting analyses and recommendations for the Danish mortgage market. Let me actually use this opportunity to raise me a little in helicopter perspective and try to spend some time on what really characterises the Danish mortgage system. We are basically very proud of the Danish mortgage system. It is a system that has worked without anyone losing money on it for over 200 years. And we have travelled across political parties in the Folketing for a number of years together to both the EU and other institutions to create an understanding that the Danish mortgage system is really, really good. This creates a uniquely low level of housing funding for the benefit of both citizens and businesses. It does not look like anything you know from many other places, and that means that when there is increasing capital requirements for the financial sector to ensure the financial resilience that we are all interested in, we have unfortunately sometimes seen that it has not matched the Danish mortgage system. It has challenged it in relation to the way in which the value of capital, for example of Danish mortgage bonds, could it now be equated with, for example, government bonds? We can say that you can calmly do that when you look at the Danish mortgage system, because it has been extremely robust for centuries. When you have a very good system, you have to think carefully. And I think somewhere this debate is going to be a little too simple, because if we could take initiatives that, with a snap, made it cheaper to be a homeowner, then I actually think we would have done it. We are concerned that there is as effective competition as possible, that there are as transparent prices as possible and that we have a system that works. Of course, I understand the frustration that many people have experienced, because the rates of contributions are increasing. I actually think we all want to be out of this. But then it's just that sometimes you have to think about it. Is what sounds wise to say on 12 seconds on television, so also wise tomorrow if it is implemented? And some of what sounds tempting in this motion for a resolution might not have been so much fun tomorrow if it were implemented. Because if you make some very rigid rules about how our mortgage system can equip itself, in the event of losses, in the event of new capital requirements, in the event that things happen that move the economy, is it so super wise for the Danish homeowners? For the reality is that if we do not have a robust mortgage system that can ensure that there is the capital coverage that is required that there is a guarantee that if there is a loss, you are also padded to be able to counter it, then it goes without saying that we are being pressured on the rating of our mortgage bonds. If the rating is pressed down, that is to say, it goes directly through the price of the bonds, and this will mean increasing interest rates for the property owners. Then it may be that you have done something about the contributions rates that sound popular, but you have then pushed the bill onto the interest rates. I think most homeowners are pretty indifferent to whether they pay contributions or interest. It is the net amount that affects us on the private economy. In the same context, you can say that you can lock the rates of contributions, because then people will know exactly what they are dealing with. I believe that the Minister and indeed the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned that if things change and if you do not have the opportunity to adjust what is the mortgage sector's only source of income, then you will pay well in advance. I would imagine that a mortgage agreement could be drawn up today to obtain a fixed rate of contribution. I could only fear that it would then be at 3 percentage points, because then the mortgage credit institution would have had complete certainty that even if one thing happened, they would have taken enough. But it is a little foolish to make a scheme that locks people for so long ahead that you have to take a premium. Then it is better to have a system where there are some rules. These are some of the experts to look at, and the Minister for Business and Growth has already tightened up the rules from 2015. The message from the Left is that we need to think really, really carefully. We are concerned to ensure as cheap and efficient housing financing for the Danes as possible. We need to think carefully about what adjustments we need to make. That is why a committee of experts has been set up and we are very concerned to ensure the objectives of the Danish mortgage system. We must do it wisely and carefully. That is why we look forward to the report of the Committee of Experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163838	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163843	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen thinks that we are making some serious suggestions. However, would the rapporteur not say whether the rapporteur agrees with me that the rules we currently have are far too loose and that they have given free rein to mortgage credit institutions being able to pump their customers for money and have thus taken advantage of and taken advantage of the courts in a situation where flexibility has been sought for mortgage credit institutions, so that they can maneuver more flexibly, but that they have acted unethically with the flexibility they have been given, to have used the situation to use the rates of contributions as a money machine? Is this a description which the rapporteur considers to be fairly accurate about what the situation is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513163936	I am delighted that what we have seen on top of the rising rates of contributions, which are the starting point of this discussion, has been that other mortgage credit institutions have been somewhat more offensive on the field, have offered to change cheaper and make some sharper offers. I believe that the best regulation we can have is that there is as much competition as possible, so that as a consumer you have a better choice. I think that is the best protection we can give consumers in this situation. That is why it is also one of the themes that the Committee of Experts is looking at: how can transparency be strengthened, how can competition be strengthened? Because, as a liberal, I am always concerned about ensuring as much competition as possible, because it is for the benefit of consumers. That is why this is one of the themes that the Committee of Experts is looking at, and I look forward very much to seeing the concrete proposals they are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164029	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164032	But when you have those discussions, I think it is very important what understanding of the current situation is, i.e. what kind of backdrop forms the backdrop for the discussions that are in a group of experts. And I would like to ask again: does the rapporteur on the Left believe that the situation we have now, where there is no real competition, has been exploited by mortgage credit institutions which are owned by shareholders and banks to raise the contribution rates and thus pump customers for money? Because that's what Enhedslisten means. We believe that the mortgage credit institutions have simply exploited the fact that there is no competition, that there is no money to withdraw from customers, and is that not really what needs to be done about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164114	But it is clear that for the Left it is essential that we create as much transparency and competition as possible. In addition to the fact that there is a committee of experts sitting and looking at it to see if there are places where we can strengthen those conditions, there are also things that the FSA is looking at to see if they are completely as they should be. And I think it is natural that it should be thoroughly examined. But I have to say, you have to think about it here, so we're gonna do something that's considered. I want to be a little careful about this, because I don't want to create uncertainty about the Danish mortgage system. We must promote the objectives on which we agree. That is what the Committee of Experts is looking at, and I look forward to seeing their debriefing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164156	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164208	Thank you. The unit list and the alternative propose that contributions rates and price cut fees should not, as a general rule, be increased over the duration of a loan. This is, after all, a proposal which has been put forward, I assume, in the light of recent increases in the rate of contributions from mortgage credit institutions, something which, of course, has caused annoyance to many homeowners. I'm one of them myself, and it's not fun to have to pay a higher contribution on your loan. But as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen very well, I think, explained just now, it is important that we fly up in the helicopter and see everything a little from above. Firstly, we still have away the world's cheapest housing funding in Denmark. We have a transparent mortgage system. I should almost explain how this is connected, because it is really very beautiful, but I will try to stick to the subject here, namely the contributions. As others have also explained, the contribution payments to mortgage banks cover their operating costs, losses, collateral, liquidity and capital costs. Drift is among other things. pay and administration. The losses are losses on loans to the private sector and to the business sector where the loans cannot be repaid. Capital is the ever-increasing cost of meeting the continuing rise in capital requirements from the authorities and market expectations. Of course, the prerequisite for obtaining a 30-year non-negotiable fixed rate loan is that contributions can change. Take such a 30-year mortgage, which expires this year and was thus founded in 1986. A great deal has happened since 1986. There have been a number of recessions, which have been financial crises. There are many things that have changed, including legislation. It is a prerequisite for consumers that, if they are to be able to obtain long, unspeakable loans, they must be able to change contributions when costs change when market requirements change and so on. And, as I said, that system has provided the cheapest housing funding in the world. We must be very, very careful to change the regulation of the mortgage sector in the light of a crisis. After all, this is a classic policy which arises in a situation which the media are throwing themselves at in this case increasing rates of contributions. Then the politicians get out and will come up with new regulation. In fact, I think that what we have experienced has been quite, quite unsightly, namely that we have taken a specific business that we experienced with Nykredit and demanded meetings and regulation on the basis of the arrangements made by this company. I think it's been very, very unbelievable. In our view, the concrete proposal is deeply unsolidarous. The consequence will be that the contributions will be raised for new customers. It will be young people who buy their first house. It often is. They will have to pay a much higher contribution than customers who already have a loan. It's unsolidarous. This would also mean that investors would lose some of the high level of confidence they have in the Danish mortgage system and therefore demand higher interest rates. Summa summarum will be passed on to the homeowners and the bill will be higher than the one you have to pay today. It will therefore have the exact opposite effect of what one wants to achieve. This is often the case with the left-wing proposal. This proposal will not increase competition, it will kill competition. It will mean less competition. Instead of this proposal, we should spend all our time in this Parliament appealing to the EU and others to keep their hands off the Danish mortgage system. Then I will say in the end, and I will be brief: if it were true that the Danish mortgage system and the mortgage banks were a money machine... a money machine has been said... then it is strange that this system has not been introduced in other countries that these greedy capitalists have not introduced it in other countries. But they haven't. Is it possible that this is not as profitable a business as other forms of housing finance? I think it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164805	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164812	Thank you. It's always exciting with these helicopter discussions about big concepts like solidarity, etc. I just think that both the rapporteur and I recognise that we have different definitions of it. I do not think it is solidarity to do nothing. These are homeowners, people who have condos, and they're also people in cooperative societies. I cannot understand why a rapporteur for a liberal party can live with a situation in which competition has been put out of effect. A fairly large part of our proposal is to say that there may be administrative costs of switching companies. I don't think they're that tall. Should not some regulation be made that allows people to have the freedom to choose another company? I thought that was a good liberal policy. Then people can go somewhere else, vote with their feet and pay the administrative costs that are, but not overhead and opaque prices that have nothing to do with moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164918	Just 'cause sir. Rune Lund and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen say that there is no competition, that is not true. That is not true simply because there are politicians sitting in this Chamber saying that there is no competition. That doesn't make it true. Reports have been made in the past. Now a new one was made, where this is being investigated. It has not been established that there is no competition in the Danish mortgage credit system. There isn't. So what is it based on, other than some newspaper headlines and some who are saddened by the fact that the rates of contributions have increased and therefore say that there is no competition? But you can't prove it to be that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513164959	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165005	I think the only person I have heard saying that there is no problem with competition is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. The Minister has said that there is a problem with competition, the Consumer Council, the economists. The argument I might understand that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen made a statement now I don't know if I'm helping the argument on the way. What would that mean in relation to private companies' assessment of these companies, etc.? There could be a discussion about that. But this doesn't make any sense. That's if it gets too expensive to go to Kvickly, well then you can just go to Use or vice versa very easily. There really is no competition here, and I have never heard anyone say that there is no problem with competition in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165050	But perhaps that is because the rapporteur listens to those to whom the rapporteur wishes to listen, because, as I have just said, analyses of this area have been carried out before. By the way, the previous government did. And that analysis did not show that there were major competition problems. Nor have I heard the Minister of Industry say that there are problems with competition. I have heard the Minister for Industry say that a group of experts has now been set up to look at the sector and also whether there is competition. But that is not the same as saying that there is no competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165121	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165124	To begin with, I would like to say that some of the last thing the rapporteur said, namely that the European Union must interfere with the Danish mortgage and not make any further demands, we fully agree. Fortunately, we have a resolution on this which we will be dealing with on the 20th of this month, and that is where I look forward to the support of the Liberal Alliance. The rapporteur then says that the criticism of a company is unbelievable. No, what's unbelievable in this case is that hundreds of thousands of Danes have woken up to another turn on a fee screw and a fee that has increased and increased for years. It's the bad news here. And in a situation where ten thousands of Danes have committed themselves to this and said that it simply cannot go, we have a rapporteur who says that there is no problem. After all, it is people who see it as a problem. They can actually see that, for example, if they do. has a fixed-rate loan and has to switch to another mortgage institution, so the cost of changing will be so high that what they can save on it is gone. There is not and there should even be a liberalist to recognise that when you cannot establish it, some kind of regulation is needed, otherwise it will affect customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165240	But again, I do not agree with the premise. I have to say, I'm not. Then I would say that if you are in favour of competition, and I do so, I am certainly in favour of competition, I want private companies to compete, for blood sprays, to give customers low prices, if you wish, then you do not set a ceiling on prices. It is not something that promotes competition. If there is to be competition, it is a fundamental prerequisite for free price formation. So perhaps this indicates that the people's socialists and neo-communists in the Enhedslisten are not really interested in how the market works when you can make proposals like this, which is an expression of the fact that you do not understand how competition works and that a prerequisite for competition is free price formation and not maximum prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165335	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165339	The prerequisite for competition is that you can choose another product. This is the fundamental prerequisite for competition. If you can't, you're moving towards different forms of monopoly formation. That is why we have a regulation against monopoly formation. I do not suppose the rapporteur is opposed to this either. The situation for these house customers is that they cannot move because the cost of moving is greater than they can save. Moreover, they have no idea whether, where they move to make a new 30-year agreement, the fee screw will be tightened one week later. After all, we are not suggesting that the fees should not be increased; we are simply proposing that an independent body should be required to assess whether there is material evidence to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165417	But you can move to another mortgage institution. And there really are people out in Denmark who do. Thousands of them do it. And you cannot say that because you have a very low cost of a mortgage that we have in Denmark and that it costs something to change and that the margin between the two things is of a certain size, it is in itself an expression of a lack of competition. You just can't do that. Does this mean that if the interest rates were even higher and the fixed costs of the loan were even higher and it would therefore be relatively cheaper to switch to another mortgage institution, then it was suddenly competition because it had now become cheaper to change? No, of course not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165501	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165504	Yes, I have to go on because I think it is absolutely amazing that the rapporteur can stand up there and say that there is competition. If it is so expensive to move from one company to another that the customer has to pay for it, so to speak, pay more than it pays to move, then there is no competition. Just like sir. Pelle Dragsted says, we're not saying it should be completely free. We are just saying that there must be objective consideration for the increase in contributions and we think that we should be able to move and pay only the real cost to the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165542	Then I'll have to repeat myself. It cannot be claimed that the fact that the fixed costs of a loan are low and there is a higher cost of switching is an indication of a lack of competition. You can't say that. If that logic were correct, these parties should also say that if the interest rate on the loans or the contributions to the loans increased even more, i.e. the fixed contributions, and the margin between the fixed loan and the cost of changing it decreased, then there was sudden competition. Well, that's not how it works. So you mix up some things and draw conclusions that are not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165630	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165632	Well, I think it's a really interesting interpretation of the word competition that the Liberal Alliance is showing here. Then I'll sort of switch the subject to the customers who take a fixed-rate loan. Again: We are not saying that the contributions cannot increase. We are just saying that there must be a real justification, as an independent body, for example. FSA, approver. Does the rapporteur not agree that, in the case of a customer who takes a fixed-rate loan to be absolutely sure of what is in the daily budget, there is a problem in that there can only be increases out of thin air?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165711	This is a prerequisite for taking, for example, the right to vote in local elections and the right to vote in local elections. a 30-year fixed-rate loan that the contributions may change. That is a prerequisite for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165724	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513165740	Thank you for the floor. The Danish mortgage system is the best in the world. It has historically been the cheapest, and it has also historically been the safest. This has been the case, and we want it to stay that way. When you take a loan, it is important that you know on what terms you borrow. It is important that you know how much you have to pay in advance every month, so you know how much you have after loans and rents. But you can't be sure about that today. Even customers with fixed-rate loans, where payments are immediately believed to be firm, may run the risk of their contributions rising. And, as the rules are today, there is no ceiling on how much mortgage credit institutions can raise the contribution rates. That is why we are tabling this motion for a resolution. The Danish cooperative funds came out of some of the things we are best at in Denmark, namely to cooperate through cooperative movements. The mortgage started in the late 1700s after the big fire at Holmen in Copenhagen in 1795 where 900 houses burned down. After the fire, the many new homeless needed new loans for new houses, so they joined forces and started the first mortgage. Historically, therefore, mortgage institutions are in many ways a pillar of the cooperative movement, which in the last 200 years has provided loans for high and low. A mortgage consists of three parts: interest, instalments and contributions. Interest and instalments will be determined by the customer and the mortgage institution working together to determine which loan the customer is to receive and how long to repay. Then the mortgage credit institution takes it to the bond market, where it is sold to the one who is willing to give the lowest interest rates. The mortgage institutions must convey and administer the loan, and that, of course, costs some money. That is what the rates of contributions should in principle be. Historically, therefore, the mortgage banks are just a sort of intermediary who has to provide loans between the borrower and the lender. Because mortgage banks have been co-funded, i.e. owned by the borrowers, the only interest for mortgage banks has been to keep the contribution rates as low as possible. Therefore, it has not been necessary to make legislation which regulated the contribution rates. But in 1989 a reform of the mortgage was carried out. It meant that mortgage institutions no longer had to be cooperative. Now banks and external investors could also set up mortgage institutions. This has meant that over the last 25 years we have seen a trend towards more and more commercial mortgage institutions, and today Nykredit is the last of the large mortgage institutions that are client-owned, and Nykredit bars already with a stock exchange quote. The disappearance of the cooperative mortgage credit institution is not only a pity for the democratic cooperative movement, which counts after heads and not after head, but also a problem for borrowers. In fact, this means that the mortgage banks go from only having to look after the interests of the borrowers to now also looking after the interests of the external shareholders. And since mortgage banks only provide loans, the only place they can make money for their shareholders is through the fees and contributions rates. Shareholders are therefore interested in as high contribution rates as possible, but borrowers are interested in as low contribution rates as possible. This has resulted in a conflict of interests, and that is why we are proposing to change the law. Sometimes it may be necessary for a mortgage institution to raise the contribution rates. It's always been like that. At the moment, however, mortgage credit institutions face some additional challenges because, following the financial crisis, they are being imposed on more and more capital requirements. Therefore, it must also be possible for mortgage credit institutions to increase the contribution rates, but only if it is approved by an independent body such as the European Parliament. FSA or the Competition Authority. In this way, we can ensure that contributions are raised only if there is a real need and not just to pay extra dividends to shareholders. Therefore, it is also natural that conditions should apply if mortgage credit institutions raise their contribution rates. Firstly, it must not be possible for mortgage banks to pay dividends to shareholders two years after they have raised the contribution rates. We think this is quite natural. Because if it is strictly necessary to increase the contribution rates, there should also be no money to pay dividends to shareholders. Secondly, if one's contribution rate is raised, it must be possible to change mortgage institutions at the least cost possible. In many other situations in society, it is not a big problem if prices are raised. If, for example, the price... is put up on oatmeal in the yellow package I usually buy, yes, so I just choose oatmeal in the red or green package. But you can't do that with mortgages. If you have to change mortgages today, there are huge costs, both because, for example, there are. may be price losses on the bond to which the loan is tied and because the mortgage institution to which you move charges a conversion fee. That is why many borrowers are now in a mess here, where the rates of contributions are being raised. It's both expensive to stay, and it's expensive to change. That is why we are also proposing that if a mortgage credit institution raises the contribution rates on a loan, it should not impose charges beyond the administrative costs that the mortgage credit institution can demonstrate, for example in relation to. loan restructuring. As I said, we have the best mortgage system in the world, and it must remain so. It's the place in the world where you can get the cheapest loans. It is one of the safest systems in the world, and so much of it is even democratic. We think we should hold on to that and be sure of the future. I therefore hope that more will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170312	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170317	Thank you. Does Mrs Josephine Fock think that a ceiling on contributions will promote competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170327	I think that when you take a loan, in particular a fixed-rate loan, there should be a guarantee that you can count on what it should be. I think it is too expensive to change today. That is to say, if you are allowed to raise the contribution rate unhindered and there is no possibility of changing without it being terribly costly, then it will hamper competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170358	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170359	Can Mrs Josephine Fock explain the consequences for Danish home owners of the removal of the right of mortgage banks to raise the contribution rates?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170417	We are not exactly proposing that we should not have the right to do so. We say precisely that there may be a good reason why the mortgage credit institution raises the contribution rate. I think I also mentioned that in my speech. There just needs to be an objective reason for this. It should not just be for example. to pay dividends to shareholders. That is why we say that if the contribution rate has been raised for a good reason, then we propose that dividends should not be paid to shareholders for the first two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170449	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170458	Thank you very much. There has been broad agreement today on a few points. One is that we have the world's best mortgage system. The second is that we have a problem with the rates of contributions. So far, so good. Then the question is how best to solve it. Proposers would like to regulate and make it more difficult for companies and mortgage banks to raise the rates of contributions. That makes sense, because I understand perfectly well the many customers who think that when you enter into a contract and it is only one party who has the right to change the contract, it seems unfair. Therefore, it may seem more reasonable not to be able to change the rates of contributions. What we just need to know is that the result of this legislation is that, from the start, mortgage banks are starting to upholster themselves more and making sure that they do not have this flexibility if, for example, they do not have this flexibility. must grant a loan which may last 30 years. I think we should just be honest and say this. It took me quite a while to understand that that is the problem. I am not trained in this area, for example. Social Democrat rapporteur. But when I finally understood it, I could see that it is not really in the interests of customers that they should just pay a higher price from the start because this flexibility is lacking. What, then, can we do when we all agree that the rates of contributions are a problem? The alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, says that one good thing would be to be able to choose the red and blue oatmeal, that is, more competition. There seems also to be agreement that it would be a good answer to this, i.e. that customers could vote with their feet. Should we not then try to talk about how we could get some more competition into this sector by, for example: to see if we could negotiate an agreement with the mortgage banks that it is possible to change? If, for example, they do: If you choose to raise the contribution rates, it should be easier for customers to change by e.g. to share some of the costs. Allowing customers to vote with their feet would then be an opportunity to increase competition. That is what we have proposed radically as an opportunity. This is one of the things we are trying to put pressure on to see if such an agreement can be negotiated once the work of the government has been completed. So we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170733	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170738	The problem in this case is that we have a regulatory regime which belongs to a different time. We have had some mortgage associations that were customer-owned, and this has meant that there was no contradiction between those who raised contributions and those who had to pay for them, because they were the same people. Over the last 20 years, there has been liberalisation which has meant that the banks have come in and now own most of our mortgage associations, and they are no longer customer-owned, and for that reason a distinction has arisen, so there are some who have an interest in raising the contributions and some others who have the opposite interest. But the regulation one has of the area is the same as when the contrast was not there, and that is what we are trying to address with this proposal. And that is why I think it is so unfortunate that, as a party which otherwise calls itself a responsible party, it will not be a part of it. When we are dealing with a sector that is quite different than it was before, we have to say that it calls for a different answer. What are the radicals going to do to help the people who are in a mess and who are getting bogged down in their household budget because of these fee increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170845	Now the Radical Left is a responsible party, and the first thing a responsible party does is to stand by the conciliation that has been reached, and that means that if you want to change these things, it is not in the Chamber with a resolution, but that it is, of course, in a conciliation circle. I think, too, sir. Pelle Dragsted will agree with me that we cannot stand and vote for agreements in an area where we are involved in a conciliation, and that is the Radical Left, and that is why, when the government makes its statement, we would like to be involved in discussing some of these things. I think, too, sir. Pelle Dragsted may be right in that there is another incentive structure, but we just have to say that it is Nykredit, which is still the client-owned, which has actually raised the contribution rates recently. So we believe that it would be better to try to make it easier for customers to change, so that you get more competition into this system. But this is not done by making it more expensive for everyone to borrow new housing loans, because from the outset a higher risk is placed on mortgage banks and they will therefore have to take a higher price.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170943	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513170945	But now the reason why Nykredit raises the fees again is because they themselves say so. So it's to make themselves delicious before they have to, but not because they're client-owned, that they'll have to. However, I was not really aware that the Radicals were involved in a conciliation in this area, and it may be that the rapporteur can explain what this conciliation is. But I sign that there's a will to do something about this. I think it is important, but I do not think that doing anything about competition alone is enough. In fact, that is one of the things that lies in our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171021	That's really what it says. Sir. Pelle Dragsted chooses after having been to a meeting and he knows very well why it is that Nykredit is in the process of making a stock exchange statement where he understands the whole thing very clearly: to stand here and run a populist agenda, as if it's all about the fact that now there are some private people and have to score the box. Nykredit will have to make a stock exchange quote because there will be capital requirements, and the resulting gain will still come to the benefit of their owners, and that means that Mr. Pelle Dragsted speaks against better knowledge. Because it's hard to understand this, and it's very popular to say that it's probably just an evil company going to the Stock Exchange. Unfortunately, however, the world is not that easy, and that is not the way to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171104	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171109	Thank you. Will the rapporteur explain to me why this area of competition, etc. Quite naturally falls within the scope of financial stability conciliation, in addition to the fact that the Minister thinks it does? How does that come from the rapporteur's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171129	Because, for example, it's... is in the conciliation circle where we have been allowed to sit with the SF, where we have been involved in discussing how that work should look, also the great exposition work that the government has set in motion. We have been invited to discuss how to look and provide input for that. Because we are invited to participate in the decision-making process, and I also understand that it is very wise to listen to what the government is saying. In fact, it is often those who have control of what is within and outside agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171157	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171159	I have never been given a good answer to the question, nor now why this should be within the scope of the Financial Stability Conciliation Group. SF has been involved, and we've been talking about a lot of other things, but not this specific situation. So I don't understand. I would, of course, like to appear on behalf of the SF when the Minister called, but I have also said that I did not think it was in the conciliation circle. The beauty of a conciliation group is, of course, that all the parties in it have the right of veto, and I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it not true that the SF has said that we would not make a jam jar and postpone it here once again and that that objection was overheard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171238	I would say that it is true that we were at a meeting at Nykredit and that we then went straight to the Ministry and helped to discuss how the next steps should be in an area where we have also worked on the rates of contributions in the past, and where we, too, as party involved in an agreement, have had an impact on how this should be dealt with and regulated. So, yes, I see this as an area where you have an agreement. Moreover, from an influential point of view, I would also say that it is much more relevant to sit over there and arm a government than to sit here in Parliament and make symbolism policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171313	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171332	This conciliation thing or not, and where it belongs, you can discuss it for a long time. I think that this is an independent issue that does not necessarily have anything to do with Financial Stability and that all parties in this Parliament have a clear interest in the fact that the system that is so important for the Danish housing market and for the Danish economy is really something that we all want to improve. I really believe that, regardless of the disagreement that may have arisen in this Chamber today, all parties would like to do so, because it is so important for the social model we have. After all, we praise the Danish mortgage system and the Danish model, and we all talk so beautifully about it, but we also paint a slightly too rosy picture of it. It is true that it guarantees cheap and secure loans to the Danes, but as Mrs Josephine Fock also mentioned, something happened 27 years ago. You made a huge conversion to the mortgage system that you had. So we must also be honest now and say that it is not the mortgage system that was once we are talking about today, but that is the new thing to say. I think it was DF's rapporteur who spoke about swings and carousels, and there we have also seen that there have been some revenue problems in the banks, and then you have moved your focus elsewhere. There are several elements in this proposal, and I would say that if there are some that can only be in favour of parts of it, for example. making it cheaper to move from one institute to another, so that you only have to pay the real administrative costs, then I think that the rapporteurs behind the proposal will be very concerned, for example. to divide up the proposal. There is a study by the Consumer Council Thinking which has, after all, been very active in this debate because they think that it is a consumer and customer problem that the contribution rates have increased so much, and in 2005 they came up with a study that showed that the contributions had increased by an average of 97%. From 2011 to 2015. Their forewoman, spokesperson, Anja Philip, was out to say that in order to ensure a real competition that is not there today, one ought to be able to do it free or very, very cheaply, so that one can just vote with the feet as one can when buying groceries or all sorts of other things. She said: we believe that it should be free or cheap for consumers to switch to another company when the rates are suddenly turned up. And one of the economists employed in the Consumer Council Think also said: we think it is quite unreasonable that one party to an agreement can suddenly raise the price significantly without the other party being able to do anything about it, and this proposal will increase competition for customers in the mortgage sector and thus put an end to the self-table that the contribution rates have developed into, said Morten Bruun Pedersen, economist in the Consumer Council Think. One of the things I asked about at DF's rapporteur was that now we have had a lot of focus on house owners, on people who have condos, but in fact the shareholders are also double hit because as a shareholder you get a bank loan with significantly higher interest rates. We have seen there that they have not followed down when the interest has fallen. There are relatively high interest rates in the field of bank loans. That's where you get your loan, but your cooperative often has a mortgage, and that's where you're gonna get hit by it. So you will be affected both by an increase in your rent or contributions to the cooperative, while at the same time having the high interest rates that have not fallen. There will certainly be no swings and carousels. Then we'll get co-owners who get hit twice. So it's also just to say that this is a very, very broad circle of people in Denmark. They're landowners, they're people living in condominiums, they're landowners. Then I simply think it is incredible to hear people who have a liberal starting point, especially the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, say: there is no competition problem, we do not see that. Well, of course there is, because if the costs of switching are roughly the same as the price increases that you get, we obviously have a competition problem, and these are the specific proposals contained in this motion for a resolution from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171844	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171848	Thank you. Does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen recognise that SF is part of the agreement on banking package VI, which deals with SIFI and capital requirements, where the absolute primary purpose is to impose requirements on the upholstery of all financial institutions, all mortgage institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171911	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171914	Thank you. Does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen believe that SF is also included in the agreement on the law on dealing with the mortgage credit institutions' refinancing risk of 6 February this year, where, among other things, we... has agreed to establish a portal with housing prices so that it will be easier for customers to see how prices for housing loans are regulated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513171940	Yeah, me too. And since the rapporteur has no opportunity to ask me a third question, I would like to reply to what I am quite sure of the rapporteur's question in relation to this conciliation group. As I began by saying, I do not recognise as the most natural thing in the world and neither does the Alternative and Enhedslisten that this is a matter of padding, or that it is because of Basel requirements, capital requirements. And if you do not recognise it, you cannot say, as the most natural thing in the world, that it is linked to that discussion. We believe that this is an isolated competition problem in the mortgage sector, and that is why I thought that all parties in the Folketing should be involved in a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172023	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172038	The Danish mortgage system is unique; it works very well in relation to home buyers, works very well in relation to the Danish system. And the Danish mortgage system has also worked impeccably through the crisis after it all collapsed in September 2008. Where banks were under pressure, banks fell, banks were saved, we saw the mortgage institutions come through. They also lost money, but they came through with the skin on their noses and secured a solid foundation under several hundreds of thousands of homeowners who had money in squeezed home owners who could safely and quietly sit in their house or apartment because they had taken up a mortgage, mediated by a mortgage institute. That system has therefore worked very well. Then there have been some challenges in terms of moving, compared to explaining how the costs have been to have such a loan. However, our starting point from the conservative point of view is that there is no need for further price controls in this area. We have a market, a market that works in relation to being able to move, in relation to being able as a family to choose to borrow, and you can then do that in a bank if you want to, or in another mortgage institution. If you go in and do price controls, which are explicitly envisaged in the proposal here, B 99, it will lead to lower conditions for families, because ultimately you will get a worse rating from rating agencies, which means that it will cost more money to borrow money from mortgage banks to customers, because you will not be able to act offensively and mobilely in relation to market changes. So if you really want a well-functioning mortgage system for the benefit of the whole of Denmark, for the benefit of consumers and families, you also have to respect the fact that there is a market that works. There are then some curls and some ripples that must of course have been looked at, and which I am also very aware of, and therefore I am pleased that the Minister has set up a committee to look at it, and there I am prepared to look at also on behalf of the Conservatives, the proposals that the committee makes and see if there is a need for some adjustments, some adjustments that make the world's best mortgage system continue to be the world's best mortgage system for the benefit of everyone in Danish society. So we, the Conservatives, cannot support B 99.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172334	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172338	Impeccably, the mortgage has made it through the crisis. I therefore do not think that the families who have been hit by an increase of several thousand kroner a year think so. They don't think it's impeccable. So, in a sense, I find that inappropriate to say. I fully agree that Denmark has had a fantastic mortgage system at the time it was customer-controlled and co-operative. Does the rapporteur not recognise that with the last 10 to 20 years of change it is a completely different mortgage system that we have today and that this is what is causing the problems? At the time when customers owned the mortgage, there was no interest for external players in raising the rates of contributions, because it just hurt you when you were a customer. Now banks have come in as owners, and they have an interest in raising the contribution rates, for this can increase the return. That is why I think it is natural to discuss whether we need a different regulatory regime today than we did then. I would have preferred you not to have carried out the liberalisation that the rapporteur's party was also involved in, and that we actually still had the incredible international system where customers owned mortgage banks themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172459	I would venture to say that, because of the mortgage banks, consumers have come through the crisis impeccably, because if you look at almost all the other countries and their homeowners, you see that they have become much, much harder hit, and if, as an alternative, you have had your loan in a bank during that period, you have seen that interest rates have risen explosively. That's the fact. Then it is true that some of the contribution rates have increased, and there may be a great many different reasons for this. But then you have to move. If you are unhappy with the rate of contribution you have, you have to take your loan from another institute, then there must be competition in this area. I think we have a good system. There are some challenges that we experienced here a few months ago at the latest, and then we have to look at whether it needs to be adjusted. But it works very well for the benefit of the Danish families, and I am not going to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172554	There is not, and there will never be effective competition on long mortgage loans for the simple reason that if, for example, The interest rate in the meantime between the first loan and the next one has increased, we know that it will be more expensive to take up a new loan. That is to say, you cannot just move if the mortgage institution you are in suddenly raises the contribution rate by 10,000 kr. a year. There will never be a perfect competitive situation, but there are other places as it has been mentioned. For example: You can go from one supermarket to another, because there the market works. But even the Conservative People's Party must recognise that there are areas where we also have it with the telecommunications market and all sorts of other areas where it is not possible to create real competition and there is a need for regulation. Does the rapporteur not agree that there are areas where, because we cannot achieve real free competition, we have to have some form of regulation in order not to develop such excess profits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172650	Firstly, I am not against profit, and secondly, I believe that when the market is working as well as I could hear the rapporteur admit it, for example. The supermarket area will also work in the housing sector with regard to the provision of loans, because then you will shop where it is cheapest. There is the small curl on it that when you enter into an agreement on a mortgage loan, the mortgage institution is merely an intermediary • an intermediary of a loan that some others like to offer. And there, of course, it makes it a little more difficult to shop around because you have to have a dialogue between two parties that have been entered into in a given situation. So you can't just shop around like that because it's part of the construction. I think that one of the things you should have looked at, including in committee work, is how to make it easier to move, because then you can increase competition. And what you can do to make it easier to move, we will support at any time, including the regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172744	Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen. There are no more brief comments. At the end of the day, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513172803	A few months ago, hundreds of thousands of Danes woke up to a really boring surprise, namely that one of Denmark's largest mortgage institutions simply set up the fees for their mortgage loans. For some, it was many thousands of kroner, that is, families who have put themselves in a loan, have expected and have even been informed that this was the safe type of loan, but that suddenly gets knocked out of their household budget. In a month and a half, on 1 July, they'll raise the fees. You just got a few months to prepare for it, and then we'll see if we can afford the summer holidays in many of those families. With good reason, it has triggered very massive protests from many of the customers. The Facebook Group, called "Critical stakeholders" in Nykredit and Totalkredit, is followed by more than 40,000 Danes who are debating. It is Danes who are committed. An association has been formed with many thousands of members, called "fair rate of contribution'. I would actually like to take this opportunity to thank the many thousands of Danes who have interfered in this debate, put pressure on Nykredit, put pressure on politicians and send good ideas and views to us. I think many others have received that too. The motion for a resolution we have tabled together with the SF and the alternative is very much the result of the good ideas which have come from many of the citizens' initiatives in this field and the economists with whom they have allied. After all, the proposal's intention is basically to regulate the possibility for mortgage credit institutions to increase their contribution rates. Why is this so necessary? Well, it's because of one, I think, sad development in our mortgage system. As the rapporteur for the Alternative also mentioned, our mortgage system has been unique: customer-owned and customer-controlled mortgage associations. It was citizens who joined forces to create mortgage associations to ensure cheap housing funding. It was the customers who owned the mortgage and they functioned very much as such some resting in themselves. No one outside had to make money to offer mortgage loans to the Danes and the rates of contributions, and that is what this is all about, i.e. the rates of contributions or fees, had to cover only the administrative costs and possible losses for which it was then collectively liable. As the years have passed, the Danish mortgage credit system has unfortunately increasingly been integrated into the financial supermarkets. A number of mortgage banks have been bought up by banks, and the reason for Nykredit's new fee explosion is precisely that the management wants to stock exchange the company. However, with the transformation of mortgage associations from democratic, customer-owned companies to financial supermarkets owned by outside shareholders, a problem has arisen. For where no one had an interest in raising the contribution rates when the association was a customer-owned, the contribution rates have now become a possible tool to increase earnings to shareholders and the banks that own the mortgage. Contributions and fees have become a money machine that can be turned up at will. That is why we need to regulate how much and when mortgage credit institutions have to increase their contribution rates. That's what this proposal is about. It is simply that over the last 20 years our mortgage system has changed fundamentally, but we have the old regulatory regime and it does not catch the problems that arise here. So our proposal will set clear limits on when mortgage credit institutions have the opportunity to change the terms of loan contracts already concluded. As a starting point, customers should be able to rely on being able to plan their private economy in an appropriate way by knowing that these rates of contribution cannot be increased on loans already made. Then we acknowledge in the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and SF that there may be situations, for example. In these cases, mortgage credit institutions must of course be given the opportunity to do so, but it should not be a self-delivered roof. They must be able to prove that this is the reason for it. They must also commit themselves to reducing the contribution rates once they have obtained that capitalisation and, above all, they must not be able to use that capitalisation to increase their dividend payments once they have just increased the contribution rates. So these are the demands we make in order to be allowed to raise the rates of contributions. Then there are several of the rapporteurs who have said in this debate that the most important thing is to create competition and that in itself it will push down the contributions. I also think it is important to create competition. The problem is that there will probably never be a complete free competition in this area, because the cost of changing the loan provider is so high and they will be, because it is not just the fees, it is also the fact that you may have taken up a loan at a time when the interest rate was low, but when the interest rate then rises, you are stuck in your loan. It is just as in the nature of these long-term loans that there will never be a proper functioning of competition, and that also applies to other areas of our society, and there we have also taken responsibility as a society and said that in those cases, for example. monopolies and other things, there has to be regulation. So we want to help to increase competition, and we are also proposing a number of measures in this proposal, which may not have been noticed so much, among other things. That is to say, when contributions are raised, we should be right to move cheaper to another mortgage institution, for example. by not using these price cut fees. So the idea of this proposal from Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF is really just to ensure a greater degree of fairness in the way in which the contribution rates are administered; the customers simply need to have greater security and we will defend that the Danish mortgage must continue to be one of the cheapest things that this development unfortunately threatens. We have offered both the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party to be co-sponsors of the proposal, because we took note that when this happened, there were, we think, positive notes from both parties that this was something that should be taken seriously, but there was no interest in being co-sponsors. However, I would like to acknowledge that there have been a number of speeches from up here in which it is recognised that there is a problem. I think a lot of the people who watch out there are happy about that. But there are just up to half a million Danes who will be affected by these fees in a month and a half, and when we have made this proposal, it is of course to try to help them. I look forward, of course, to a report from the government in the autumn so that we can see if it can end up with something. It just doesn't help the people who've gotten stuck here and now. However, I would like to thank you for an interesting and good debate. I think that this issue is really one of the really, really important issues, because the housing economy is probably one of the most important for real, very many people, and that is why I think it is good that it has been taken seriously. We may disagree with what needs to be done, but I am glad that there is the attention on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173539	It is just early enough to say thank you for the debate, because it continues. Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173544	Thank you. I note that the Enhedslisten is flying today in the rapporteur's post, so the rapporteur has not listened to what I have said, unless, of course, he has followed it from somewhere other than here in the Chamber. I'm not supposed to be able to rule that out. We believe, among other things, and I said this in my speech, that this very question needs to be thoroughly clarified. And that is not the case with this motion for a resolution, which is why the Socialists did not want to be involved as co-sponsors, despite the fact that we naturally agree with the criticisms that have been made. But the rapporteur can go home and revisit my speech, and otherwise I will gladly send it to him. My question is very brief: will the Enhedslisten have a ceiling on contributions rates, and if so, what will it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173630	On the first point, Mrs Mette Reissmann says, I had to run to defend our train fund and our time model. There have been negotiations over in the Ministry of Finance. I very much regret this, but I think it is an important battle to fight, which is why Rune Lund replaced me, and he has of course informed me of what the various rapporteurs have said, but I look forward to seeing the Socialist rapporteur's speech when I get home. On the question: we propose what we propose in the proposal. It became a strange formulation. It's not like there's a ceiling. It is that there must be regulation. This means that if you, as a mortgage institution, want to raise the contribution, for example. because a capital requirement has come from political teams, you must document your need for capitalization and upholstery. If approved, you undertake that you will not increase the dividend payment to your shareholders the following week. And you undertake that once capitalization has been achieved, that is, once you have padded yourself enough, you will then lower the contribution rates again. It is simply a matter of protecting the property owners. I'd like to see that we still had mortgage associations that were customer-owned, because then this problem would never have arisen. Unfortunately, there was a broad majority in the Folketing in those years when everything had to be liberalised, which opened up the banks to go in and take over the mortgage banks. I'm so sorry. It was a huge mistake. Now that is where we stand, and then we must try to find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173805	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted then also mentions in his speech, which I welcome, that competition is good. This is only positive, because we really do have a common platform from which we can fight. But I'd like to know if Mr. Pelle Dragsted can mention an industry where competition has increased by regulating the fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173833	The fact that we are introducing a regulation of fees does not mean, of course, that people should not reduce the rates of contributions. We therefore do not prevent mortgage banks from competing at lower rates of contribution. Regulation can be good and bad, there are plenty of areas we have regulated; the telecommunications sector is regulated, the water sector is regulated, and it is always different considerations that we weigh against each other: consideration of customers, consideration of businesses, consideration of how we can achieve the best balance in the particular sector. So, in relation to those ideological outbursts that regulation is wrong or regulation is good, I would say that good regulation is good. And there are plenty of areas that need regulation, and this area is one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173915	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no more brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513173942	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174008	Thank you. With this resolution, the Liberal Alliance wants a housing market in which citizens can choose the type of housing they want to live in. I believe in many ways that there are some interesting ideas in the motion for a resolution that have been tabled, but vice versa, as I have said several times, it is also important that we clarify the possibilities and consequences of lifting the ban on the conversion of cooperative housing into owner-occupied dwellings, which has been laid down in this proposal. I also think it is important that, if we are to look at regulatory changes and make a service review of rules that are in many ways older, it is important that this is done on an enlightened and also well documented basis. It is, of course, the case that the owner-occupied property law prohibits the division of cooperative housing associations into condominiums. This means that cohabitation units cannot be converted into condominiums. The original background to the ban is a desire to preserve the different types of housing on the market, which can also make sense in many ways. We must also recognise that there has been a development in the housing market, which means that it is natural to look at how the legislation is now in place in today's Denmark. I have taken the initiative, together with the Liberal Alliance, which has asked for it, that a committee should now be set up to look at modernising the ownership of the apartment law. The Committee shall have, inter alia: It is the task of the Commission to look into the possibilities and consequences of amending or abolishing the ban which currently exists in the law, which I also started by mentioning. The government wants to await the committee's recommendations, after which there will be a political position, and political discussions will also be invited when we know the committee's work. The committee's work is supposed to be completed in autumn 2017 and, therefore, on this basis, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but would like to indicate that we are now looking at the possibility of carrying out a service review which I have outlined here in my speech in connection with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174223	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174227	It was during the growth negotiations that the Liberal Alliance's business rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen convinced the government to set up such a committee. And, of course, we are delighted that the government was responsive to this. But most of all we had seen that it had been agreed that you just did this, because we really don't think there's so much to think about. It's just about some people living in cohabitation associations. There have been many more of them in recent times, because although there is a ban on converting cohabitants into owner-occupied dwellings, there is no ban on converting rentals into cohabitants. This has happened in a very, very large style, so there has been a shift in the balance sheet and there has been an increase in the number of rentals and cooperatives. And then the question is: Why should they not be allowed to become owners? That is also the question from me to the Minister: what objections can there be to people living in a cooperative housing association who agree with each other that they would like to have owner-occupied homes instead, simply transforming their own cooperative housing association?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174332	We have, of course, had ample opportunity to discuss this. Previously on Warehouse 13... Joachim B. Olsen, and now it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who wants this discussion. I think that as a government we have an interest in a diverse housing market. I do not necessarily think it is a problem that we have different types of housing, but I just do not think that, in the light of the resolution tabled here by the Liberal Alliance and the very brief description that exists, we can reflect on what may be the consequences. For example: I am not fully aware of the fiscal aspect of converting housing from one form to another; I think that is also important to clarify. In general terms, then, I also think it is important that we look overall at some of the relatively large challenges that exist, also in relation to the cooperative housing market in general, for example. The whole question of black money. This is certainly a relevant area, and I believe that it is also relevant, among other things. That is why the Liberal Alliance has taken up this debate as I remember some of the statements made by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Well, I guess it's just a question of how ambitious you are. And I have to say that I want to take this discussion on a different basis from what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174455	We also have patience in our party. We are a young party that expects to live for many years yet, and we must also have something to accomplish for the rest of our lives. But I just want to say to the point that there must be different forms of housing in Denmark, that I agree with that. There must be the types of housing that the Danes want. We see many places that rental property is converted into cooperative housing associations because the residents want it and have the opportunity to do so. And that's no problem. Why, then, should it be a problem for them to be transformed from cooperative housing associations into owner-occupied housing associations if the residents so wish? That is the starting point. They have to be different because people have different wishes. But in this case, they want their cohabitation association converted into an owner housing association.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174544	Now, in my first answer, I outlined some of the challenges that I think need to be addressed. There's also an assessment of if you're gonna have to go into this at all... how many it's gonna be. Should there be unanimity? Or is it the board that can do it? What exactly are the criteria that should be? I do not necessarily see that from what the Liberal Alliance is proposing. In addition, I think it is actually a very good idea that there are different types of housing and that is not what the Liberal Alliance disagrees with, but it depends, of course, on how the housing forms are so best arranged. And there I think we have a very strong need to look at this whole legislative complex. Now the Liberal Alliance has taken this opportunity to focus on one element, but I also believe that there may be several elements that deserve a review. So I actually think that this is going to be about a proper service in an area that has been marked by the fact that there has not been so much political focus on it. We just have to sign for a wider debate, and that is what I am proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174647	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174649	I think that the broad debate is important, and it is also important to nuance on the challenges that individual cooperative housing associations may face. There has been some focus on some cooperative housing associations that have changed their loans not so long ago and may have had some bad advice and then got into financial trouble. But there are in fact some of the cooperative housing associations that have been set up, which have been subject to certain index loans and which are now in financial trouble because the loans are still expensive. These cooperatives still have a large debt, even though they were established many years ago, and they could actually be helped if they could be allowed to rewrite their index loans. So I would like to ask the Minister, given that there is such a committee work, given that there is an explanation which, as it were, is intended to differentiate the problems, whether transforming a cooperative housing association into a general housing organisation was also something that could be included in the work if the residents wanted to go that way instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174751	So, what is the challenge for me, as Minister for Business and Growth, is that this is not an area in which I have a black belt, as I am not the Minister for Housing. Now this part belongs to me, but I think the right thing to do is to come back with a written answer, because the general housing sector does not belong to my ministry, and that is why I believe that if I am going to give a full answer, I will have to return with it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174815	Then I will come up with one more question which can be taken further. This is the dilemma that may arise in the fact that there are a number of cooperative housing associations which have received local support when they were set up. Now comes the Liberal Alliance and will allow for some sort of privatisation of a cooperative housing association. What, then, is to be done about the municipal subsidy granted at the beginning? Is this something that would reasonably have to be paid back to the municipality with interest or how would you handle it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174842	That's exactly why it makes sense to analyze some of the different models that are if you're looking at a more modern form. So the concerns that Enhedslisten now mentions are also one of the reasons why we are suggesting that it should be a wide-ranging committee with many different stakeholders, so that you can have all these discussions on the table. Anyway, it's new and exciting to me if Enhedslisten also supports the fact that you have to have the opportunity to do this conversion, and that's why I'll sign for it, if that's what's left of it, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen says.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174921	Thank you very much to the Minister. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513174930	The Liberal Alliance, in its motion for a resolution B 142, will allow cooperative housing associations to convert cooperative housing into owner-occupied housing, regardless of type of dwelling. That sounds intriguing, but there will still be a number of consequences of the proposal, which makes it problematic, the Socialists seem. First of all, the Socialists believe that there is reason to protect the co-habitation. And it seems obvious that a large part of the many cooperative housing associations located in the large cities will see the possibility of an immediate financial gain and will therefore transform their cohabitation into owner-occupied housing. Well, that's what I can understand from Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen, that is, he also knows many who feel that way. But the Social Democrats actually want to protect the cohabitation as a form of housing, and we do, because it gives a group that may not have an economy for a owner's residence, an opportunity to buy an apartment, and it is an incredibly positive thing for the Danish housing market. However, the proposal will undoubtedly mean that a large part of today's cooperative housing, which forms this middle layer on the housing market, will disappear if the motion for a resolution is adopted. In Copenhagen, for example, there are approx. In other words, a large number of apartments are affected by the proposal, and that would be a loss. We want to safeguard the form of cohabitation, as we know it today, with the practical and also social community which belongs to that type of housing. And that is our general objection to the motion for a resolution. In addition, a number of problematic issues could be identified which would arise if the proposal were to benefit from the promotion. For example, the proposal will collide with the rent law in relation to the conversion of rentals into cooperative housing. Today it is possible as a tenant, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also said that if your home is put up for sale, you can buy your apartment as a cohabitation. And the proposal will mean that you will subsequently be able to convert your co-habitation into a owner's residence, which is not the intention of the provisions of the rent law. At the same time, it can also be expected that the proposal will mean that less money will generally be spent on property renovation, as cooperative housing associations renovate more than owners' associations, according to the cooperative housing movement's own secretariat. Finally, the authors of the comments address the challenges of selling co-operative housing with money under the table. I recognise that it certainly does. And that's not a new issue; it's been like this all the way back to when I bought my first co-habitation back in the early 1980s. And it's definitely not okay, it's totally illegal. Above all, however, the proposal will have negative consequences for the total amount of co-operative housing. The Socialists want to protect the cohabitation as a form of housing, and we cannot support the resolution. We will await the work that has been started, which I think sounds really exciting. I can see that there is a great deal of interest in this, and so it was in the former Urban and Housing Committee, where Mr. Ole Birk Olesen himself was a member. And we've discussed this several times. So it is nice to see that there is now a committee work to be done, and the Socialists are delighted to enter constructively into the dialogue on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175244	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175247	Mrs Mette Reissmann says that the Socialists want to protect the cooperative housing and cooperative housing, and certainly the Liberal Alliance does. We think it should continue to be the case that if you want to establish a cooperative housing association, build a new housing association and organise it as a cooperative housing association, you should have the right to do so. If you want to keep your cooperative housing association, if it is already existing, that is, if you do not want to turn it into an owner's association, then you have to have the right to do so. We have no suggestion that any cooperative housing association should be forced to be an owner's association. What we just want is that in those cooperative associations where there is a desire to be an owner association instead, one should be allowed to do so. I do not really understand the concern about the number of cohabitation units, because it has become much bigger in recent years. There are very, very many rises in Copenhagen in particular, which have been transformed into cooperative housing associations. If you now think that you would rather be a owners' association, will something be done about the fact that there will then be a little more owner-occupied housing on the market and just a little less cohabitation? Should it really be locked down, and should it be the case that we always get more and more cooperative housing and fewer and fewer rental homes? I guess it doesn't have to be like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175408	After all, the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance lays down such a premise on this in his question, which is that it is all or nothing • such an all-other equal discussion, that is to say either it should be, or it should be. But this does not necessarily have to happen. But I would say that precisely the cooperative housing idea and the cooperative housing market are something that is very much a socialist thing and that we actually want to safeguard. So, yes, we do not want to put the cooperative housing market under pressure and then remove a form of housing that we think is quite good. We believe, perhaps contrary to the authors of the motion, that it is for people with a smaller economy that the cohabitation form is a very good alternative to owning something themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175452	Then I would like to correct Mrs Mette Reissmann, who says that the cooperative housing idea is a socialist idea. It is not at all; it is a form of ownership which can be found on equal terms with all kinds of other forms of ownership in a free, liberal housing market. And we wholeheartedly support the idea that people should be allowed to live in cohabitation, if that's what they want. But we also support the idea that if you agree with each other in a cooperative housing association that you would rather be an owner-occupied housing association, you should be allowed to do so. It is not we who want to impose a restrictive framework here, it is Mrs Mette Reissmann who is concerned about loosening up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175531	I'm just trying to make sure that Mr. Kim is safe. Ole Birk Olesen to say that we look forward to the work of the committee and the result that comes from it. And I will be delighted and delighted to enter into dialogue with the Liberal Alliance when we see the outcome of the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175544	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. The next rapporteur is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175555	With this proposal, the Liberal Alliance wants to be able to convert co-operative housing into owner-occupied housing. I therefore understand the proposal if it is not considered that the cooperative housing idea should survive and have a future. However, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, this will lead to a final settlement with the cooperative housing form. If this proposal were adopted, it would probably lead mainly in the big cities in the first place to the fact that the shareholders would very quickly convert their homes into owner-occupied dwellings. That goes without saying. I doubt that there are many who would say no in the big cities to convert their cooperative housing into owner-occupied housing, as there will be a huge gain to score for those who happen to hold a cooperative residence at this stage. In the Danish People's Party, we want to maintain this wide range of accommodation available today. In fact, we want to expand them. We have done this with other things that we have voted for over time, and we will be working hard to ensure that the cooperative housing sector is guaranteed in the future. We also recognise that there are today some challenges in the legislation on cooperative housing, namely with the form of loans and many other things, and we actually want us to have a closer look at that. Following on from what the Minister has said, we also hope that there will also be a political debate on where we want to go, so that this committee of experts has something to work on the basis of a political wish. We want this dialogue to take place in the future and hope that the conclusion will be that the cooperatives will, of course, remain and that the legislation will further support this in the future. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the Liberal Alliance's proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175742	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175744	The price of condominiums is increasing today, especially in Copenhagen and the major Danish cities. That's because there's a lot more people who want to buy than there are people who want to sell. If there is now a contribution of housing, which used to be cooperative housing, to the owner-occupied housing market, then this will help to prevent price increases in the owner-occupied housing market, which is very large. I do not think this can prevent price increases, but I believe that the price increases will not be as great as they would otherwise have been, because there will be a greater supply of owner-occupied housing. What's wrong with that if that's what people want? If people really want a owner's residence, and if that's what they want, isn't it really good that there are more owner's homes on the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175832	There is also a high demand for cohabitants. Then it can be said that we will also have to buy more co-existence units, because there is actually really, really, really great demand. I understand the rapporteur's view that if a rapid injection of extra owner-occupied housing is given, it may be that it can keep the price level down a little. I doubt that that will be the effect, because really, very much is being built right now, especially in the big cities, and I do not see it taking the breath of the price increases that we are experiencing. So if it is converted into owner-occupied housing, I think that the price pressure will just increase further, and then we will just remove a form of housing from those who want a cohabitation and can only afford a cohabitation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175916	Well, then it came up: those who can only afford a cohabitation. Is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party aware of how difficult it is to have a cohabitation in Copenhagen if you do not know the right people and if you are not just willing to pay a relatively large amount under the table? Because it sounds like the debate here and now, and today at all, as if people think that these fine low-price co-operatives actually exist in reality and are to get if you as a young person move to the city from Jutland without any contacts and without any money to pay under the table. Are they really out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513175954	I know very well that a large part of the cooperatives are traded within a network where it depends on who knows who. As such, I have no problem with that. Where the problem arises is when money is paid under the table. We must do something about this, and I hope that is one of the points that the Committee of Experts will make. It is also something in which I myself have some input, which I would like to continue working on, on how we might be able to prevent it in the future. But in my world it is not necessarily a question of cheap-cheap housing. In my world, it is also a matter of the ordinary Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who has regular middle-income jobs, has the opportunity to get an apartment that is not cheap-cheap, but has a very common price, and that they have the opportunity to settle in Copenhagen and Aarhus and other big cities also on the basis of a normal price rent. But condominiums in Copenhagen are extremely priced, and we no longer talk about ordinary middle class.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180044	Thank you to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. There are no more brief comments. That is why we shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Britt Baker, on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180058	Then the stage's kind of set. This proposal concerns a form of housing which has developed a lot in recent years, namely the cooperative residence. And in this proposal, the Liberal Alliance demands that citizens be able to choose for themselves what kind of housing they want to live in. The development we are seeing in the housing market is due in particular to an enormous demand for housing. This has led to a marked increase in prices in recent years, both in rental and owner homes. During the same period, the prices of cooperative housing have been legally fixed at a maximum level. Precisely the maximum price has been the basis for stories about a cohabitation market where potential buyers have to pay large sums of money for paintings or old furniture to secure a cohabitation, i.e. money under the table, so that the maximum price is bypassed. There are a lot of articles that include money underneath the table I have read them. And I am actually quite convinced that there are some deals of the most attractive apartments in Aarhus and Copenhagen, where money is paid underneath the table. But just to give a little perspective on this, I have to say that it is a criminal offence to take money under the table in the sale of cooperative housing, and we have yet to see that a verdict is being handed down, even an indictment in connection with the payment of money under the table at cooperatives. A consequence of this resolution would be to move away from a fixed maximum price and towards a free pricing. However, the proposal here mainly concerns the possibility of converting cohabitants into owner-occupied dwellings. It is a change in the form of ownership that immediately undermines the original cooperative idea, and I am absolutely not in favour of that, because the spirit of participation is both good and sympathetic in the eyes of the Left. Summa summarum: I am aware that there are problems in relation to the pricing in the cooperative housing area. That is why I am also willing to discuss different solutions to how we can get a more correct pricing of co-operative housing in relation to the market so that we can stop the black cash flow that is there. But it has to be at the same time and it is very important for me to stress that we retain the cooperatives in the form they have. I have also noted that the Minister is already in the process of setting up a committee to look at modernising the property law and, in line with the Minister, we in the Left would like to take a decision on any changes on an enlightened basis. The Left cannot support this resolution as it stands. However, I am in favour of discussing what opportunities there will be for ensuring more up-to-date prices for co-operative housing. I am also in favour of presenting a report in committee and I look forward to discussing the further measures proposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180405	There's a comment. This time, it's from Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180409	I am, of course, pleased with the openness presented by the rapporteur of the Left to look at this. This is in line with the government's desire to set up this committee. But I am a little sad about language when you say that it is a potential undermining of the spirit of participation. In other words, a cooperative society is a voluntary association that you have formed together voluntarily, and you should be there voluntarily, and to say that the fact that you cannot be allowed to turn it into an owner's association is to undermine the creation of cooperative societies, I think is a little wrong. It is like saying that being allowed to divorce is an undermining of marriage, and therefore one should not be allowed to divorce if one otherwise likes marriages. Then it would be a forced marriage if you couldn't get out of it. I guess you're not in favour of that. But you seem to be a little in favour of forced housing associations, because people should not be allowed to turn it into something else, just as you can be married, and then you become good friends afterwards, it is allowed. But you can't be allowed to be a cohabitation and then turn yourself into an owner's association. I don't think it's an undermining. I think it is a liberation of people so that they can choose their own form of accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180527	At the very least, I would like to begin by rejecting the fact that we in the Left are in favour of forced marriages, because we do not. I could talk a long time about this. If I am to pull it up to a slightly different level, I would like to ask myself what kind of society I want to live in, and I want to live in a society where there is room for everyone. It is logical that if I have bought myself a cohabitation and have the opportunity to sell it and earn far more from it than if I had to sell it at the favorable price that I have entered the market that I then want to convert the dwelling • of course I would do so with a huge profit. So who's it gonna do? It is the current shareholder. That's the one who's got the share at the moment, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is making his motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180615	It is very, very much beneficial to the many other home buyers out there who would like to buy a owner's residence, because there is a lack of owner's homes today in Copenhagen, compared to how many people would like to live in Copenhagen. That is why prices are rising. Now, if this is adopted at some point, there will be more owner-occupied homes out there, and there is therefore a potential that the price will not have to rise so much in order for supply and demand to meet each other. So it is a welcoming of all the many who would like to enter the housing market in Copenhagen and who do not have contacts and who do not want to go into a trash trade with money under the table. It's a courtesy of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180657	I disagree with the rapporteur on this, but I agree with the rapporteur that we should look at the market so that there is not so much black money, because that is what is happening at the moment, and we must not, of course, close our eyes to it. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister is putting some work into action, and I would strongly urge that we look at this with the black money. I would also very much like to be a part of the committee's report, in which we call for the black money to be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180726	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. There are no more comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513180739	Enhedslisten believes that it is not a good idea to transform cooperative housing associations into owner-occupied housing associations. The transformation will result in the cooperative housing form being put under pressure in the larger cities where the cooperatives are primarily located, because there will be a short-term speculative gain by converting into owner-occupied housing, thereby making a profit for the people who happen to live in the homes right now. In fact, this proposal will end with the maximum price that has been in force so far. The proposers state that this will make the cooperative housing sector more transparent. This by making it more transparent supports the Enhedslisten, but we will go a completely different way. We will make it compulsory that key information on cooperative housing associations is publicly available and that it must be compulsory to keep an external waiting list for cooperative housing associations. It can prevent friends' services and money under the table and stuff like that. The unitary list, unlike the Liberal Alliance, will actually support the cooperative housing sector. Where the Liberal Alliance alone will help the cooperative housing associations to abolish themselves, Enhedslisten wants there to be more cooperative housing. At the same time, we are very open to seeing what barriers these are which prevent cooperative housing from being converted into general housing organisations. We can see from the comments made by the Liberal Alliance on the motion for a resolution that, in principle, it should be quite free to choose which form of ownership a cooperative housing association could choose. So in the comments, the Liberal Alliance has taken the opportunity that a cooperative housing association could go the other way and so choose to transform itself into a general housing organisation. I can see some prospects in that, because there are a number of cooperative housing associations which have problems with their having some index loans which they have been required to have since their creation. The index loans are expensive for the cooperative housing associations, and there are many smaller cooperative housing associations, at least over in Jutland, which are in the situation that they are deeply indebted, although it is a housing organisation that has existed for many years and which is in the situation that it is difficult to afford maintenance. So it is necessary to look at how we can ensure that more cooperatives receive cheaper loans. In other words, why should cooperative housing associations be maintained in some index loans, which are now expensive for them? Why didn't you open the door so that these loans could be changed? In this context, it could then be opened up to the freedom to transform itself into a general housing unit. It could solve the economic problems of some cooperative housing associations, and we in the Enhedslist are very open to taking it further in the work that needs to be done. Then there is one aspect that has not been highlighted in the resolution here, and that is that there are a number of cooperative associations which have received local support when they were set up. If it were to come to the point where this motion for a resolution was adopted, what would be the position on the capital that has been injected from a municipality? Should it be repaid, or should it be the cohabitants who happen to own the dwelling now, who can capitalise on the deposit that has been made since the beginning? So I think this is a really bad proposal and Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181112	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181116	Then I'll just answer Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's question about what to do if there are municipal support crowns in a cooperative housing association, because that question is very easy to answer. Because today there are cooperatives which have the right to transform themselves into owner-occupied housing associations. They are terraced houses, they are double houses, and these are the few places where the cooperative housing association consists of separate houses. Some of those places have recently been granted municipal loans and subsidies, and there are already rules on how they should then be repaid when converting into owner-occupied housing. So they exist, and there's no problem with it at all. This is a bit funny, because some cohabitation units already have the right under the law to become owner-occupied housing associations, and it is quite fine in those cases where you decide it other people do not have this right. So there is discrimination. So the question is: if you are very opposed to cooperatives being allowed to turn themselves into owner-occupied housing associations, do you now want to ban it for those who are allowed to do so today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181218	I'd think it was an advantage if you didn't have the right to turn your home into a owner's residence. I think that we should go the other way and make the community stronger and move towards forming general housing organisations. It is thus the most free form of housing where you are not bound to stay in your home, where you can easily quit your home, and where you can easily move to another city. And if you divorce, you can easily get rid of your home at 3 months' notice. So I see some huge drawbacks about these owner-occupied homes because they tie people up, and I think that's a disadvantage. So I would very much like to see the most free form of housing promoted, which is the general sector where you can live in a dwelling and where you are not, in fact, subject to someone making money from living in a dwelling. You have a community with your neighbours here, and you have an influence on a number of things when there is the annual section meeting where you have to adopt a budget and thus have an impact on what your rent is going forward. It is a form of housing which should be promoted much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181320	There are Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance so different, for we see it as that some people have the benefits of living in a rental residence, other people have the benefits of living in a cohabitation, some third people have the benefits of living in an owner's residence. Therefore, there are a lot of people who live in a owner-occupied accommodation they like the benefits that are there. We think there should be something for all of them. We are not going to promote a particular form of housing. With regard to the proposal to convert cooperative housing associations into non-profit housing associations, there is one problem about this, I think that it will probably trigger a lot of public support funds if you go from cohabitation to non-profit housing. If there was no such challenge, I fully agreed that they should of course be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181403	I welcome the opening up to the possibility that there might also be an opportunity for cooperative housing associations to turn into general housing organisations. I can easily see some advantages in this if, at the same time, a loan change is made, ensuring that the present residents, who then have a right to stay, have the opportunity to stay at a lower rent because they are re-loaning. I think that would be great. Well, I guess it's the case that people who haven't tried freedom don't know what it is. So if you think it's great to live in a owner's residence and be locked up in having to pay a high term and have an uncertainty about how housing prices are going to be in the future, then it's a free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181445	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181452	We believe that diversity makes society rich. This also means that there must be diversity in our cities, our residential areas, and this means that there must be a diversity of different types of housing. That is why we are pleased that there is something called cooperative housing, and there is something called owner-occupied housing, and there is something called all the different things, all the different types of housing that are there. We would very much like us to develop how we could create even more diversity in the forms of housing that are, but not a one-way street. And that, unfortunately, is what will happen with this proposal from the Liberal Alliance. It's a uniform. As the rapporteur on the Left said, it is a very short-term freedom that will come here, because there will be a great money gain, in the second such a resolution will be implemented, and then we would be locked down, so it would be a costly housing market that would be left in the cities, and not with the advantages that exist in the cooperatives, which create the diversity of cities that is needed, so that it is not only people with very high incomes who can live there. I just want to say that, on behalf of the SF, they do not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181611	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181623	Let me tell you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist something. What is currently happening in Copenhagen is that diversity is decreasing. In the old city centre of Copenhagen, one rental property after another is sold and converted into a cooperative housing association, so that there are now only a few private rental apartments in the city centre of Copenhagen, because there are now only cooperatives and owner housing associations. If there were more owner-occupied dwellings and it was also possible to rent them in a reasonable way, then the owner-occupied dwellings would probably be rented privately by the people who have the homes and who move from there and move elsewhere and think it is better to rent than sell etc. In fact, diversity is being wiped out today, and I am sorry to say so, but it is the cooperative housing associations that are taking over almost everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181726	I very, very much disagree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's reasoning, for what will happen with this proposal is then just a one-way street compared to the fact that it will all be owner-occupied. So I do not see that it solves the problems which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen sees. I think it is very important that in our urban planning out there in the municipalities we are much better at looking at how we can mix housing forms, perhaps also inside new buildings, so that it is not a block with one and one block with the other, but that we see a much greater diversity. It will not solve the challenge of a shortage of rentals in Copenhagen if it all turns into owner-occupied housing. It will only make the market even more unified and make it even more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181808	However, it is not possible to disagree with my presentation of what is happening at the moment with the private rentals in the old city centres, especially in Copenhagen, and how they are transformed one by one into cooperative housing associations, so that it is gradually not possible to move to Copenhagen and live inside Copenhagen K or in the bridge neighbourhoods, without having to go out either to find an owner's residence or a co-habitation. There could well be more private rentals, for example. people who were owners of an owner's residence could be allowed to rent at the price that it costs them to have the owner's residence. The legislation forbids them to do so because it is older housing stock that may not be rented at the price. So there are major problems with this legislation, and the fact that we favour cooperative housing associations knowing that they can be set up by obligation to offer offers means that there will be less diversity in rental.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181909	I simply do not agree that this proposal will increase the diversity of the people who can live in the city centres, which are the expensive places to live and the hard places to get housing. For creating a sea of owner-occupied housing and then even with free prices on rent will just make it only the very richest that can live there, and we just don't think that's the good city, the creative city, the living city.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181936	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and welcome to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513181944	Thank you very much. It rarely happens that the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party are in complete agreement. It can be said that the rapporteur's speech today could just as well have been the rapporteur of the Radical Left, because I think that was some important points that were made. I was thinking it's funny, 'cause that's almost what was on my paper. But so, for the Radical Left, it is very important that we have some cities where people with all kinds of incomes can live. This means that we should not have cities that develop into pure rich men's ghettos, and that means that there should be the possibility of having different types of housing. One of them is the cooperatives, and it is still a place where you can enter as relatively new in the housing market and also often without having very, very large free values with you. Therefore, we don't think it's a good idea to give it free, so those who own a co-operative apartment at this particular time can turn it into a condominium and make a lot of money from it. In fact, we think that would be a shame. But we will be open to looking at what comes out of the statement by the Minister for Business and Growth. We also think that the addition to look at whether some of these black money, which is probably in some of these associations, is a good idea, so we would like to support that, but we cannot therefore support the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182108	The Radical Left has in recent years had a slogan called: "We are listening. Also for economists. Can Mrs Ida Auken point to a Danish housing economist who does not think that the Danish housing market needs to be liberalised and who does not believe that this is a step towards a more liberalised housing market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182133	Now it's the case that sir... Ole Birk Olesen has taken this up in the Committee on Business, Growth and Export with the business rapporteurs. So if you want to have that discussion about the total housing market, you have to make sure that it is our housing rapporteur who receives this proposal. But no, I don't think that's a good idea. And I can't immediately pull a home economist out of my pocket. But I am sure that there are a number of them who work on the committees of the Minister for Industry and Growth, and I will listen to them when they speak out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182214	This has been raised in the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, because this legislation is the responsibility of the Minister for Industry and Growth. It's not something the Liberal Alliance has decided. So I would like to ask the relevant rapporteur on the Radical Left to answer this question, although the radical rapporteur thinks that someone else should have answered it: does Mrs Ida Auken think that we should also listen to economists? And does Mrs Ida Auken think that in this area we should also listen to the economists who say that we should liberalise the housing market and that this is a step towards the liberalisation of the housing market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182255	I would very much like to listen to the economists. I am not saying that they always have the truth and the answer to everything, because it may be that there are other considerations to take than economic ones. Then I have to say that I think it is fair enough when even the Minister for Business and Growth answers that he does not have a black belt in the housing regulation, that I too, as a business rapporteur, allow me to say that there are finer shades of housing regulation and housing legislation that I am not an expert on. And I will not allow myself to be in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182321	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. The last rapporteur is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, so I am happy to welcome him. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182339	Thank you. There should be no doubt whatsoever that the Liberal Alliance also supports people's right to live in a cohabitation, if that is what they prefer. People should be warmly welcome to establish new cooperative housing associations, and people should be warmly welcome not to transform their cooperative housing association into owner association if they do not want it. This is not a suggestion that cooperative housing associations should be converted into owner associations. The Liberal Alliance proposes that members of cooperative housing associations should have the freedom to decide for themselves whether they want to remain in cooperative housing associations or whether they have come to a new stage in their lives, have been given new preferences that make them rather want to live in owner-occupied housing than in cooperative housing. This is a release of people in cohabitation. There are many different people in Denmark. Some people prefer to live in a rental home because it offers precisely the opportunity that Enhedslisten sings as so beautiful that you can move whenever you want, without the great cost. You can get a divorce, and you can move, which Enhedslisten also talked about. You can get a job in another city and move at no great cost. For those people it's really good to get a rental home where there's not much one-off costs associated with moving in and moving out. Other people want to live in their own house with gardens around, and most houses are in private ownership, and therefore they must enter the owner's home market. Then there are people who want to live in cohabitation. In some places new cooperative housing associations are established, and in others cooperatives are taking over housing houses, which are now private rental homes. That's really, really good. But there are major challenges associated with the way we have organised the cooperative housing market today. It is a problem that politicians have decided that the price should in some cases be far below what people are willing to give in order to move into that housing. What then happens is that there is a queue of people who would like to enter that home. Some people in that line are willing to give money under the table to get in. In other places, attractive cohabitants with attractive locations and attractive prices are passed on to families for generations. When Mom moves out, the daughter moves in. Or when the brother moves out, the sister moves in. Or when sir... Hansen's moving out, moving his good friend, sir. Jensen in. It's about having these contacts to get into this market. That's the way it is when you put prices far below what people are willing to give. It's causing this kind of trouble. Then it is true that this proposal not only gives people the freedom to choose another form of housing, if they so wish. It also solves the problem of the cooperative housing market with the distribution of the cooperative housing to people with money under the table or co-locations distributed to people with contacts in order. So that is in the light of our proposal. We are, of course, delighted, although we are sorry, that no rapporteur has so far been on the floor to say that we support the fact that the government and the Left are, after all, open to clarify this area and to set up a committee of experts. After all, this is something we have helped persuade the government to do during the growth negotiations, so we also have a hand in the game there. Then we hope that when the experts report that people will be better able to see the major problems associated with keeping cooperative housing associations in a regulatory position. Instead, they must be given freedom so that the housing market can develop freely in this area too. Then I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182814	There are brief comments. The first is from Mrs Merete Dea Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182819	Interesting speech. I think we may agree that a home is a home, whether it goes to a cousin or a cousin or a neighbour. Whatever the case, it is a person extra or a family more who is allowed to stay in an attractive accommodation at a relatively low price. Then I think a little bit about this setting it free, that if you want a owner's residence somewhere, you're very welcome to buy a owner's residence, you can just not line up for a co-habitation if you want a owner's residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513182851	Yeah, and you could say that if a person would rather be married to Jens, he shouldn't marry Allan at first, but sometimes people change their minds. Then Allan is not as good a spouse as she thought, so she prefers Jens, and of course you should be allowed to change your mind because everything else would be forced. That's the way I see it with cohabitation. It may well be that at some point in your life you thought it was right to live in a cohabitation, but now you think you want something else without wanting to move. So if you agree with the cooperative housing association that you want to change the form of ownership, why shouldn't you have the opportunity? So the DF's rapporteur asks: What is the problem with the legacy of housing? The problem is that we have established a privilege, a privilege reserved for a few people, namely to live in attractive accommodation at a cheap price, and the legislative privilege is passed on from mother to son and from son to friend etc. etc., and it is not an open and free society. It is, after all, a privileged society; it is almost a feudal society that was abandoned a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183012	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183016	[Sound emission]... and I suppose that's one of the things the committee of experts has to look at. I myself had thought that it might not be the individual who is allowed to sell on, but the cooperative housing association. That way you could avoid this person for personal contact. I can't wait to get that straightened out a little bit. Then I think that if you choose to divorce and you want to take a new one, you can say that you can also give some incentives to actually do that which was not necessarily the emotions, but which is, of course, a hardcore gain you can get here and now. So, as the rapporteur has said, there is an enormous amount of money that can be scored right now, and that is not going to be of benefit to those who could have benefited from a cohabitation after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183056	It can be a huge amount of money if we assume that the cohabitation was sold at the price that the legislation set as the maximum price. If the reality is that money is being given under the table, we do not know if that is so much money. Well, the difference between the real price and the price you could get by having it as a owner's residence and selling it as a owner's residence may not be so great. But perhaps there is just a desire to operate within the framework of the law and not outside the framework of the law, and I think we should respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183133	The next is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183137	As housing rapporteur, I also receive a lot of emails from co-owners who would like to know when we are setting the market free. It's funny, some people who all have a cohabitation they're about to sell. This leads me to wonder whether the rapporteur has in any way considered that it is quite by chance who will gain that benefit if this proposal becomes a reality. Has the rapporteur considered that it is the person who happens to own a cohabitation at this moment who will have a huge profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183217	Yes, I have considered that, but I do not have a problem with it, because it is not only the person who happens to get a right prize because he happens to have a cohabitation at the right time. It is the whole of society that gets a gain because we get a more free and flexible housing market. It is all the people who are looking for a owner's residence in Copenhagen in these years that are causing prices to rise, which will now get a larger supply of owner's homes if more owner's homes come out on the market. This will then lead to prices not increasing as much as they would otherwise have done, because there is a larger owner-occupied housing market to take off. So it's society as a whole that gets a profit from it. They're gonna get an extra big win, but that's plus plus plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183259	I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly. What the rapporteur says is that a wealthy society, a flexible housing market, is in fact the least possible form of housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183314	No, a free housing market and a free society are characterised by the types of housing that people want to live in and want to create and want to pay for. Of course, it cannot be the case that if you want to live in a beach road villa, but will only pay 1,000 DKK. a month, then there is also such a accommodation available to one, for then there are some others who have to pay, and that is not very cool.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183336	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183354	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183415	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance means that the government must abolish the rules for large companies to set targets and policies for the gender composition of their management. Let me start by stating, as I did in a recent consultation, in fact this week, that the government is not in favour of quotas and coercion, either nationally or at EU level. By maintaining the current rules, however, we have a safeguard against the proposal for an EU directive on gender distribution in listed companies, as the European Commission has put forward, which will be more intrusive for individual Danish companies than the regime currently in force in Denmark. The Danish rules are based on voluntaryness and flexibility. They provide an opportunity to take account of the specific circumstances of the undertakings concerned, which are contrary to quotas. This is among other things. Therefore, there is support from parts of the Danish business community for the regulatory framework that applies. I also think it is worth noting that the vast majority of companies have already set targets. That is why the rules mean a smaller task for companies now than when the rules were introduced by the previous government. But it is clear that this is, of course, a financial burden and that should not be concealed, and that is also why there was a very big discussion in the past about the legislative proposal that was adopted. A sample also shows that up to 25%. of the companies already have an equal distribution of gender on their boards and therefore are not subject to the rules at all. The government cannot immediately support the resolution, but, as I also mentioned in a consultation this week, we will now await the evaluation, which will be carried out during 2017, in order to look at the experience and, above all, to evaluate how the established rules have worked. The evaluation will also include the need to adapt the model and the burden on companies is commensurate with the impact of the model. And it is also to be accommodating to the Liberal Alliance, that is, by saying that this will also be part of the evaluation that is taking place. However, in view of the comments I have made now, the government will not be able to support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183650	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183654	In his reply to me on 4 May, the Minister argues that there is no need for further initiatives in this area, that is to say there is no need to enforce the law, as developments are already moving in the right direction. It is in Questions 59 and 61 where the Minister, among other things, is concerned. explains that over a four-year period Denmark has gone from 7.3% to 7.3%. women on the boards of listed companies to have 16.5% today. In connection with a previous question to the government, I also received a reply from the Minister for Business and Growth • that was question 16 from 18 December last year • which stated that the figure for January 2015 was 10.8%. So that means that there has been an increase in the number just over the past year. In January 2015, the figure was 10.8%, and in January 2016, the figure was 16.5%, i.e. an increase of almost 60%. Can the Minister confirm these figures and will the Minister confirm that this gives a true picture of the situation on the boards of directors in view of the work to be done by the Folketing in further political discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183835	Now I think this has got to stop. I do not have all my answers in the Chamber under a completely different proposal like the one we are discussing now. As I have also said to Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff here in the Chamber, I am happy to provide an explanation, so I think, of course, that the best thing to be sure of the answer is that I will return in a written form. But I can just see that in the article that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has spoken in figures which at least do not match what I have been told about. So I think so too, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff must be aware of. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff has said that the government accepts violations of women's policy. And, of course, the government doesn't. It is quite fair to take a long discussion of figures, but then I will be allowed to return in writing. I don't carry all my answers around. In one year as a minister, I make quite a lot of replies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513183931	These aren't just random numbers. These are figures used by the government as recently as Tuesday, when the government used them in consultation. It is also some figures that are relevant to what it is like today and that have to document whether it is progressing or how it is going in general in relation to getting a better gender composition on the boards. So I guess that's very relevant. After all, these are some figures that the Minister gave to the Committee on Gender Equality 14 days ago, and that is certainly not so far away. I am simply asking the Minister to confirm his own figures and to answer whether this gives a true picture of the discussions that we have today and that we need to move forward. And I do not see why the Minister is so upset about such a simple question. It must be quite fundamental that we can believe in the figures we get and that the Minister will confirm the figures given by the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184024	As for my temper, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff certainly did not see me in, if I may say so, extremely agitated state. That is why I would just like to say that I am taking it very calmly. I have no reason to believe that what I have replied to the Folketing is not correct. As a minister, that is the way it is, and I have seen it before, that information can be provided which later turns out not to be correct. However, I have no reason to doubt the answer to the question called Question 59, where it says, and I read it: "The distance from the Danish Business Authority thus shows that the share in 2016 was 16.5%. In 2012, women accounted for 7.3 per cent. of the boards of directors of the listed companies. I have no reason to believe that the figure I have given to the Danish Parliament is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184107	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184109	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. I am, of course, sorry that the government is not backing this resolution because I believe that it is clear liberal policy not to impose unnecessary bureaucracy and financial burdens on Danish companies, as this is. But I'm also listening to you make an evaluation in 2017 and maybe look at it positively, and of course I'd like to sign for that. But I'm interested to hear a little bit about what an evaluation needs to show in order for the government to be ready to drop these target numbers. Is it that there have been more women on the boards and managements, so they say that now we do not need legislation anymore, because we are, in fact, living up to what was intended? Or, on the contrary, is it possible to see that this legislation does not work? The companies aren't interested in going this way. What is it that determines when the government is going to drop the target numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184206	First of all, it can be said that what is crucial to our political argument for rejecting the Liberal Alliance proposal today is that we want to be sure that, if a resolution is adopted at European level, we have our own model, which is not what the Commission is proposing, which is a terrible model in my view. On the evaluation that is to be carried out, I would like to say that it is my political opinion that consideration should be given to whether the bureaucracy and the burden now imposed on companies are in line with what we can see from it. That can be interpreted in several ways. I'm not necessarily going to make a conclusion on this today. But I think we should look very openly at whether this has had the necessary effect. After all, this bill came on the basis of very, very clear statements by the Social Democrats before the last elections that women's quotas were intended to be introduced, as I remember the debate. It happened when the Social Democracy came into government that, as in the past, they were struck by the idea that that was not what was meant. That's quite fair, you might say. It was probably better what was introduced than women's quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184327	It can be said that, in relation to EU quotas, I find it a little strange that legislation should be made at home based on a situation if a majority in the European Parliament changes. In other words, right now there is a majority against women's quotas, and we cannot guard against the fact that there is a majority in the European Union changing. So should we not base our legislation at home on what we think is the right thing to do for Danish companies in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184401	Yes, we do, but this isn't either-or, it's both-and. In other words, we have an interest in the EU not deciding what we think is problematic both for Danish, but also for other European companies. That is why we are part of the blocking minority. Now we have chosen to say that we are awaiting the evaluation that has been decided as part of the law, as I remember, in 2017. And then I think we should have a very frank discussion about whether this has had the necessary effect in relation to what was discussed when the law was introduced, that is, what it would have of significance. And I would like to say that we need to have a very thorough discussion of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184443	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184447	Thank you very much. When this was adopted at the time, the then Minister for Economic Affairs and Growth was asked whether zero as a target figure could be written, and the Minister confirmed at that time that it was possible to do so. But on Tuesday the current minister rejected it and said that it should not be. So what's really the right thing? Can't you or can't you write zero as a target number?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184518	As I said on Tuesday, I should like to clarify this in a written note. But in terms of measuring progress and then writing zero, how can you measure it? Well, I'm not familiar with anything other than zero, so it should be 0.0000 or 0.0. This is an absurd debate. So, of course, you have to set a target figure in relation to what has been decided. And I don't think you can say that zero is a target figure, because then you can never make progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184547	It is quite possible that this is an absurd debate, but it is equally absurd that one minister should say the opposite of what the other minister has said. In fact, I think we need a very clear answer as to whether you can or can not write zero as a target number, no matter how absurd it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184605	Now it was not really to say that the questioner was absurd, but I think the questioner understood it that way. But it would be far from me to say that someone in the Danish People's Party was absurd. But now it is a discussion that a minister answers that you can set zero as a target number, and there I have to say that it may be that it requires a slightly closer historical explanation of why that answer was then given. And in general, ministers provide answers that are reasonable because there are good people who help ministers with it. However, I am fully committed to what I said during the conciliation the other day. And, as I also promised, we will be deepening on this basis, because if you have a zero target figure, how can you even have an ambition to move? But I would like to come back to that, and it is not to say that it is not relevant to ask, but it is just absurd to me if you can set a zero target figure. That's how you should see my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184655	Thank you very much to the Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513184719	I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left today. I can say straight away, and it will probably come as no surprise to the proposers that we cannot support the proposal. It is a proposal that came under the previous government and we think that the law that exists today is quite reasonable in terms of ensuring that the whole talent pool is played and doing so in a way that both promotes equality, but also does so in a way that does not drag a lot down on the business world. One of the reasons why it ended up being the model that we have today is also that we could hear in our conversation with companies and see in our own research work that this problem of lack of equality at the top of Danish business is about much more than just the top management battle. It's kind of in the layers underneath. We could see that this is a problem that applies all the way up the food chain in the companies, so with this law we meant that it made more sense to make a law that was much broader than just the listed companies, i.e. the approximately 1,100 largest companies in the country, but which was also about the companies themselves to formulate their own goals, i.e. their own targets, and finally that companies should also formulate their own policies in terms of how they could get the food chain going. At least I think, and we thought at the time, and we still think that this was a way to do it both in order to promote equality and to get the talent stock in play, including the female part of the talent stock, in a more considerate way towards business than, for example, quotas or other harder tools. So I sincerely believe that this will benefit both business and equality much more. I don't think we're helping anyone by dropping this law or by pretending like nothing. I think that's just a waste of talent. When I say that it will be problematic if this is voted through, it is, of course, as the Minister also mentioned, because there are also forces within the European which are working to introduce EU quotas throughout the European Union, in other words, where the largest companies will be subject to a 40% quota, and they will then have to live up to that, at least after what we have heard about the proposals so far, from 2020. It will not be a great service to do Denmark if the EU quotas become reality in Denmark. I would find that very, very unfortunate. Firstly, because we have to solve our own challenges; secondly, because I do not believe that it benefits equality ■ the model we have here, the equality benefits much more; and thirdly, because I do not think it benefits business. I believe that the model we have here benefits business much more. So I would find it very problematic if we were to find ourselves in a situation where European quotas were imposed on us. I'd see that as a horror scenario. Now it's not because I'm gonna paint now I don't know if I can say the damn thing, but when it's an expression, I'm thinking damn on the wall, but the blocking minority is preventing it at the moment. this is happening, and if it changes, we may be subject to EU quotas, and the cat door that will be, and the cat door that we have to hold on to, is that we can solve this ourselves. It's the cat door that wants to be. If we are to be able to prove in Europe that we can solve this ourselves, it can't help that we just drop this law or we're pretending to be nothing, because then we'll just be imposed on it. This is our best safeguard against being subject to European quotas if that situation should arise, and unfortunately there is a risk of that. Then we must be able to show that we have our own model, and we must be able to demonstrate that that model works. That is why it is important. Dear government, I'm glad you've joined this law after the election, and that you've also changed your mind, I think it's perfectly reasonable, but if we're going to be able to prove that this works, it's going to work. So, of course, it's also important that this law is enforced, and we can see with the latest studies that it's 80%. of companies which set their own target numbers. It's only 50 percent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that, after three years of operation of the law, they have formulated their equal opportunities policies, and it is really just as important as making the target figures, perhaps even more important, that they have these conversations and these discussions on the business world. And that is where the legislation in force will not be complied with unless these two things are met. We also discussed this at a conciliation meeting on Tuesday, when my call to the Minister was for an analysis to be undertaken to find out why it stands as it does but summa summarum: we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185232	It is good to not call the higher powers, nor the lower ones, so I would urge the rapporteur to use the term a certain man on the wall. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185247	Thank you. The rapporteur says that it will be of no benefit to anyone to drop the requirement for targets. But can the rapporteur understand what it must be like to be a woman and to be offered a top position in Danish business or appointed to a board of directors and then not know whether one has been appointed or has been given the job because one was the best at all, or whether one has got it because the company in question just needed a single woman to live up to a target figure? Can the rapporteur understand how it must be that we, as women, can never know why we have been given the post that we have been allocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185333	Do I know what it's like to be a woman? I do not recognise the reality described by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. That criticism could have been relevant if, for example, we were imposed on EU quotas and a company was forced through the right to live up to a certain percentage. But they are not with this legislation. Businesses themselves must set their own targets. If they cannot meet those targets, there are no consequences. We have no interest in this either, we have an interest in companies being ambitious, they dare to say: we can do a little more. Then there are times when we succeed, and there are times when we fail. After all, the individual company must assess: How do we put the best team and how do we get the whole talent stock in play? It'll probably take a few years before we get there, where we have the whole talent pool in play. That is why it is important both with the target figures, but also with the policy. However, I do not recognise the scenario presented by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185442	It is therefore the case that when companies are required to set a target figure, it is because we want them to meet the target figure. So they can't just be completely indifferent to that, and the rapporteur probably doesn't think so either. The rapporteur is of the opinion that these targets must be met because progress must be made. That is why it will be so and so that as a woman you cannot be sure whether you have been given the job because you were the best candidate, or whether you lack a woman in the post to meet the targets, so that the company meets what the majority of the Folketing believes it should. I and we in the Liberal Alliance find that very problematic, and that is what I really want to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not agree with, namely that it is not nice for a woman to never be able to know whether you have got the job because you are the best or because you are a woman.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185531	I do not know any men who go with the concerns that the rapporteur is presenting here, so I do not see why women should go with the concerns of current legislation. This legislation is aimed at both sexes. It is about the gender composition, and it is up to the individual company to decide for itself what the target number is. The company formulates its own policy, and the company can make a policy aimed at the target figures, and if you do not live up to them, then it is fine. If you have a very low starting point and you have some target numbers, which are 10 and 20 per cent, then it can actually be very impressive to reach them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185605	If sir... Jakob Engel-Schmidt wishes to speak briefly, he must find his microphone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185619	Well, I'd like to start by congratulating the President of the Danish Parliament. It is quite fantastic to see such a very strong left-wing man pay such attention to both laws and rules in this Chamber, which I very much appreciate. The compliments continue, because now it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Horn Langhoff's turn. I noted that the rapporteur said that EU quotas would be unfortunate for Denmark and, it must be understood, very little desirable, and I think that is quite fantastic. When I mention this, it is because in the last period, up to several times, I noticed the very same rapporteur speaking heartwarmingly and enthusiastic about the need for gender quotas in different contexts. Should it be understood in relation to gender quotas in Denmark that we adopt them ourselves, are the desirable and sensible, but European gender quotas from Brussels are not desirable? Of course, I may be less gifted than the average, because it is not quite clear to me yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185709	I have no reason to believe that the rapporteur of the Left would be. I believe, basically, that what we can solve ourselves should be resolved ourselves, and that is true in all the contexts of life. It is not an end in itself to get others to come and solve our challenges, I think we should try to do that ourselves. And that's what I think we're doing with this legislation, and that's why it's very helpful that the Left has joined this legislation after the parliamentary elections and supports it 100%. wholeheartedly, the entire government supports this law. It's very helpful. In relation to the last period of government, I myself was out in the press suggesting that we dropped the quotas at the time. And we came out with this model, not because I have some religious relationship with one or the other tool, but because we could see that this problem stuck deeper, that it was not only top management, but that it was the food chain that was the problem. Therefore, it made sense to hit wider and hit deeper, but hit less hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185818	I wasn't really smarter about that. I understand that it is important that we solve our problems ourselves. It is, after all, almost such a whole liberal approach to the world. But in order to stay in the Bible language one can almost compare the breakdown in the Socialist Agenda for Gender Equality during the last period with such a biblical inferno we speak both gender quotas and the prohibition of prostitution and forced maternity etc. etc. That is why I ask the rapporteur again: has the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party abandoned the idea that gender quotas are a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185847	Yeah, we believe this is better, we believe it's the right thing to do. That is why we did it at the time. I was passionate about it myself, and I fully believe it. And if the government could be a little more helpful in making this move, then maybe this could be the new European solution. It could be that instead of all sorts of things coming to us and telling us how to do, we could borrow from our experiences to other countries and they could benefit from this, so that it could benefit not only Danish business companies, but the great Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185920	Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513185931	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Liberal Alliance to remove the requirement to set targets for the gender composition of management in large companies and in state institutions. In the Danish People's Party we believe in quality and not quantity. The most important thing for us is to get the most qualified employee, whether it is a woman or a man, doesn't matter to us. That is why we do not see any sense in target numbers and quotas either. It is quite possible that women can contribute something other than men and that men can contribute something other than women, but imposing a special composition on the basis of the number of one sex or another via quotas is not, for us, the right way to go. These are not real quotas, but they are approaching, because when the company has to set a target, they set a figure, and they will then do a lot to achieve that, and then you can say that it is a kind of quota anyway. We believe that companies themselves can work out how to put their employees together and find the right ones. We believe that companies can find the best qualified for the tasks they now have to perform. That men and women are different and that men and women have different preferences in their lives, we do not think that is a problem. If a woman wants to go home part-time or not have a job to care for her children, that's fine, and if her husband has ambitions to get to the top of a business, it's fine. Besides, it's fine if it was the other way around. In the last period, we had a female prime minister. During this period we have a female chairman of the Folketing. By the way, there are 37.4%. Women here in the Folketing, and perhaps it is not just a company that is here, but it certainly shows that women who want to come forward also. We believe that the leaders who fight for and who want posts will also get them whether they are men or women doesn't matter. Then there is this talk about EU quotas. When this was adopted at the time, there was also talk of EU quotas. It was also said that quotas might come from the European Union. It is now a number of years ago and we have not really figured out when those quotas will come and whether they will come. I have to say, then, that we in the Danish People's Party will not be forced to maintain the target figures on the basis of a fear of what might come from the European Union. Moreover, we will not be forced to make quotas if it comes from the European Union either. That is why we support the Liberal Alliance's proposal to remove the target number.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190212	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190217	The reason why there have not been EU quotas is because there is a blocking minority in the European Union that is preventing it. This is among other things. Denmark and other countries that are helping to block the imposition of EU quotas. And now we have to see, because we never know what the world looks like in a year, in two years or in five years, but in my optics, the best thing we can do is use the time wisely and show that we can do this ourselves. We can figure out how to get the whole talent pool into play ourselves. We do not need anyone from Brussels to come and lecture us on how things are to be done. This is usually an agenda that the Danish People's Party would like to participate in. So does the Danish People's Party not see that the very best protection we have against being imposed on any of the European Union is that we resolve things ourselves and that we do it our own way and that we do it in a way that companies can see themselves in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190317	Yes, to that extent I fully agree with Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff i, except that we then do not support the target figures and therefore want them removed. And that is something we want to decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190329	Then we heard what the Danish People's Party doesn't want. But then I have to ask: what will the Danish People's Party want? You don't want to do anything, or do you have anything else to do with it? Is there anything in women just doing it, that is, DNA or women's priorities? Should it just be the way it is now, that is, that there are not very many women at the top of Danish business? Is it natural? So, does Dansk Folkeparti believe that there is a problem in that there are very few women at the top of Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190411	No, we don't actually think that's a problem. What we think is the problem is that we are trying to make some sort of ideological composition which we think is very good. And there I have to agree with what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said earlier, that being a woman and not knowing whether one is elected on the basis of one's sex or on the basis of one's qualifications is not a good idea, nor is it something that we think is particularly beneficial to women. That it may then be good to get more women to stand up for all sorts of things, we agree if women want to do so themselves and if that is something they give priority to themselves, and we would also like to support that, but not with targets and quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190450	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. And the President is allowed to summon Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt to the platform, because it is the rapporteur's turn to present his views.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190512	Thank you, Mr President. It is not, after all, a useful plant that has grown in my garden in a purely political way. The left is against quotas. We were sceptical about the target figures when they were introduced in the last period, and the enthusiasm has probably not reached a higher level than the quite moderate level it is at now. Having said that, we find it difficult to support the proposers. I am extremely sympathetic to Mrs Lindahl's motion for a resolution, and I can see where you are going, and so I share the intention of the motion for a resolution. The fact is, however, that as late as December, proposals were made in the European Union to introduce specific EU quotas, in which a small blocking minority ensured that this was not the case. This blocking minority can disappear in the near future for two reasons. It can disappear if we change our attitude in Germany and the Social Democratic Party gets its way and so the German delegation can change its mind. This can also happen by Britain choosing to vote in favour of leaving the EU and thus gender quotas will become a European reality. When we have legislation that ensures that we deal with the problem ourselves, we are not covered by a possible European gender ratio through a directive, and I think that is quite reasonable. I think it is important for us to decide our own policies in both the field of equality and business here in Denmark, and in this area I must actually say that I share Mr Beazley's view. Rasmus Horn Langhoff's view. Having said that, I am actually surprised that several Danish companies do not hire and promote and headhunter skilled women for their managements. Very recently, the IMF has published a comprehensive study documenting the strong profit-making benefits of having managements with a broad gender composition, which is why I really think that as a large company, both Danish and international, we should move and hire the best women available on the market before others get the same good idea. However, I also believe that this should be done by voluntary means. I do not know any political systems where coercion is a good idea or promotes a particular purpose. I believe that we have the best possible association and society when companies employ people on the basis of their competences, that this is done by voluntary means, and it is the market that regulates how this happens. Like the Minister, I have also noted that there is progress in this area: several companies are working with the target figures, and more companies also have more women in their management. I shall therefore anticipate the course of events and say to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, that I cannot answer whether any percentage increases are statistically correct and whether they keep water, according to the question in the earlier debate. There we may have to rely on the Minister's promised statement. That said, I foresee the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I am also looking forward to evaluating the legislation in 2017. Like the Minister, I am interested in how the bureaucracy and the burden affect the Danish companies and also the authorities that have to administer the same. With these words, I must say that the Left unfortunately cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190841	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190844	Thanks again for the support for the law we have. I think the rapporteur could crush it a little more than what the rapporteur is doing, but it may well come in time when the rapporteur really gets used to it. It was also such a rough start, the Left had from being somewhat critical and perceived this law as coercive to supporting it now. I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur is impressed by current developments? We have been shown from the Ministry of Business and Growth that from January 2015 to January 2016 there has been an increase in the number of women in listed companies from 10.6%. 16.5%. Does that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513190934	I can start by informing Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff says that my love is given in moderate amounts, and politically speaking one has to work relatively hard to earn it. But the rapporteur can, of course, strive harder and further over the coming weeks and months. Having said that, the rapporteur's argument of course makes an impression. I think it is nice that the gender composition becomes more equal in Danish companies, and I have seen the view that when we know that more women than men receive long higher education, that more women than men also get better grades, then it should be strange if not also the management composition at some point is changed. I am completely confident that there is no difference between how talented Danish women and men are when it comes to solving jobs in business. That is why, in some cases, there is also a cultural barrier. Having said that, I believe, as I said, that the path of volunteering is the best one to go. And I also believe that legislation is the most moderate form of system we can have in this area. And yes, the numbers make an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191037	Yes, it has to do that with 60% increase, i.e. the fact that according to the answers, 60% should have come. more women into the boardrooms in just 1 year. There you have to be very steadfast, so that it doesn't make an impression. From 10.6%. 16.5%. more women in just one year! I can't believe it. It is just before that that is too good to be true, but the Minister will then reply to that in writing. But if you're gonna go ahead with this, there's gonna be no men left with the amazing increase. But that development must really impress and support the Government's desire not to actively enforce the applicable law that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191132	First of all, I can confirm that I am steadfast in the many different facets of life. Then I can say that if it is the case that things are going as well as Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff says it does, the government has chosen the absolutely correct policy, namely to do nothing. It's going all by itself. But when a percentage increase goes, I think we talked about from 10%. At 12-16 per cent, it is very easy to say that this is 60% increase. The interesting thing is the percentage increase in percentage points. And it is not to take the top of the rapporteur's enthusiasm that I mention it, but just to give the debate a little light of facts. As a wise man once said, we should not believe in a statistic that we ourselves have not worked with or faked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191211	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191213	Thank you. I think it is a good thing to hear that the rapporteur of the Left says that the way of volunteering is the best way, because that is the liberal way, and we are all in favour of promoting it. I just want to hear the rapporteur of the Left, whether, despite the fact that there may be a majority that can change in the European Union, regardless of what one sits and thinks about in the countries around us, the most liberal in Denmark would not be to abolish target numbers, the financial burden, the unnecessary bureaucracy imposed on companies and allow them to put together their own management and their own board of directors.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191253	So, Mrs Laura Lindahl and I were trapped on a desert island together with other members of the Folketing, so I can promise Mrs Lindahl that I would not vote for any kind of gender quotas. But now it is the case that Denmark is not an island and that unfortunately it is not only the members of the Danish Parliament who decide the policy in the European Union, and that is why, despite what someone might think about the degree of liberalism in it, I am sorry to say that the Left cannot support the resolution, despite the fact that we share many of the positive ideas put forward by Mrs Lindahl. On the other hand, politics is a game where patience is a virtue, and that is why I also hope that we can jointly expect the evaluation that will come in 2017. And I'm sure that sir... Troels Lund Poulsen as Minister will do his best to galvanize the evaluation so that we have a vision of legend when it comes to bureaucracy, the use of resources and so on. And then, of course, we have to assess whether the risk posed by EU legislation, versus the costs that are on the other hand, still means that the law must be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191357	I am quite new to Danish politics. I was elected at the last election. So I take the advice of the rapporteur that patience is a virtue, to me and look forward to us evaluating, and hope that later in this period we can get back together and discuss the abolition of these targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191419	The rapporteur should certainly not be sorry that she is new to many of us. I am generally on the sidelines when it comes to Danish politics, and you should be happy about that, because you are allowed to say what you want from the platform, whether you are new, old, right-wing or left-wing or, incidentally, just on the sidelines. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191434	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191438	I just want to ask you something. When this was adopted, the rapporteur of the Left said: 'We do not believe that legislation is the right way forward. We believe that there should be limits to how much politicians should interfere in the operation of private companies. This is particularly important in these times when there is a struggle to create growth and jobs. ▪ That's what it looks like. So has the Left changed its position in relation to what was said at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191508	I was just saying, left you know where you have. But that would probably be a little misleading in this debate. On the other hand, you do not know where you have the European Union, and that is precisely why we are in a situation where bureaucrats and politicians of a slightly different kind, in relation to how you use gender, quotas and coercion, have made a quite horrifying quota proposal in Brussels. When this happens, we have to guard ourselves in this country, and the absolute minimum legislation we can have in this area is the legislation we have today. After all, this week, if I remember correctly, the Committee on Gender Equality held a longer consultation, moreover, motivated by our Socialist colleague on the left of me in the Chamber, and the Minister for Business and Growth will, at the request of Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen and I will send the committee an overview of what has been published of instructions and recommendations under the former Socialist Government. In this way, we get a vision of legend in relation to how the law is applied in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191600	We can agree that EU quotas are horrifying and that quotas are horrifying at all. But how long do we have to wait while we actually have a policy that we actually agree we do not want? For there is an opportunity to obtain a majority now in the Folketing to remove the targets. As I understand it, we are basically tired of them, at least the majority is, and yet we have to stand here on standby now in the fourth, fifth, sixth year, in relation to when those quotas are coming. Isn't that a little crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191633	Yes, but I can confirm that in terms of equality, I'm a galoph waiting to get the green light to do something about this area. I just cannot promise the questioner that we will do so until we reach a situation where the evaluation is clear and the threat from the southern European quota supporters has vanished.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191654	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513191705	The Enhedslisten cannot support removing the target figures for the gender composition of management in companies and state institutions. It is the basic view of Enhedslisten that there must be equality between men and women. It is a basic condition of a democratic society, and it must not be just words, but an objective at all levels. Equality at the top of society is enormously biased, just look at the Folketing, and in the top of the business world it is particularly bad, because there is only 16 per cent. women, while more than half of them have no women at all in top management. In the state institutions, we can take the lead and raise equality to something real, and we should aim for that everywhere in the public sector. Equality at the top is not a solution in itself, but can help to highlight other and more serious inequalities for women, for example. women generally earn 17%. less than the men. I think that it provides an opportunity for there to be a follow-up and that there may be a reflection in management, management and board, and focusing on the value of having versatile composite boards can thus be the opening to a greater variation in management, which I have often experienced is an advantage. It is a disadvantage if you have boards which consist exclusively of seven male lawyers aged 50+ or seven male machine masters of the same age. It is an advantage to have versatility on the boards. I can hear that there are some women in this Chamber who think that it is a disadvantage if you just have a little doubt that you have been appointed to sit on a board or be in a management because you are a woman. I have an experience of being on board with very talented women, and I also have experience in helping to persuade women to run for office. It sometimes takes a little longer, because those women would very much like to fully fulfil the task they undertake and are probably a little more critical of themselves, as they think they should have all the competences from the start of a task rather than having the approach to what many men have, namely that it is going well. So I feel that this doubt does not have to be so much, because there are so many well-qualified women in society, and women make up half of society, so it is no problem to have targets that help to focus on the fact that there must also be women in management. This may help to open up the possibility of looking at what, by the way, is a versatility which one can benefit from. Is it a plus on a board to have someone who's not exactly like the others? Is it a plus maybe having a less than 30 years, if that's how the rest of the board is 60+? I think you should look very carefully at what is the best composition on a board, and I think these targets about gender can be a tool for management to be pressured to reflect on it and try to look at what it is for any skills that are needed. You can have some good processes where you do board evaluations and try to find out if there are any areas of competence that are not enough on a board, and what it is you have to go after getting appointed. So for those women who are concerned about sitting on a board because they reflect on whether they sit there because they are women, I would say that I think there are many lawyers sitting around on boards who do not at all reflect on whether they sit on that board, because all the others on the same board have the same age and the same professional background. So I think it's time to be careful. The fact that you have these targets and work with it is positive to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192111	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192113	Thank you. I just want to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether Enhedslisten believes that there is equality in Denmark only when there are equal numbers of both sexes represented in managements and boards, and whether it only applies to managements and boards, or whether it applies to all professions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192136	I don't have such a rigid approach to it that everywhere it should be 50-50 percent, for it to be ideal. However, I believe that what you have and work with it contributes to focusing on what competences you have to go to get into a board to have the optimal board, which can work well together and which can be a challenge and a good player for a management board. There, through the experience I have of sitting on boards, I find that the fact that you have women in it means that you often have a broader foundation and that you can have a discussion that is better founded than if there were only men of the same caliber on a board of directors. I think that is a good thing. We don't have such an opinion in the Enhedslisten that it all has to be done up in percentages, but I really think that the fact that we're working on these target numbers can help provoke some boards to think a little more about things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192240	Now it is very good that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has a number of experiences from his board's work, but does Enhedslisten's rapporteur not believe that the companies that have boards of directors themselves have the greatest interest in putting together the very right board, which has the competences and the opportunities for interplay that are perfectly optimal for the company in question? Why does Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that we politicians have a greater interest in putting together a proper board than the individual company has?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192316	If you take annual reports for a number of companies and look at the image gallery of the board, then I think you will see that it looks a little uniform in some places and that men are too dominant. I think there's some habit thinking that needs to be done away with. I quite disagree with the fact that companies per year. Automatically has put together the best board. I think that you have put together boards in many places because you just know someone you might think could fit into the team that then becomes quite the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192352	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192354	I think that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has explained very well why diversity is, of course, also a force in business. I have a question which is actually a little in the category of what the Liberal Alliance has asked and been very concerned about, and I can ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in another way: with all the amazingly talented women we have in Denmark, can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur be worried about whether there are some men sitting on the boards and actually fearing that they would not have sat there if they had been women, for example? Well, are there any men out there who are extremely concerned on behalf of their gender about whether they are skilled enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192441	I do not have statistical evidence to know how much the male concern is that there should be more skilled women. But I think that there are many people who might well fear it, because there are so many talented women and there are so many boards of directors which are mainly men. So I'd understand if somebody cared a little bit. It may be interesting to sit on a board, but it is really interesting to sit there if it is a board that works well, if there is progress in what you have to lead and you have some good processes. It is my experience that it is better to have a broad-based board of directors with different competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192525	I ask both with a glimpse in my eye, but also in earnest, because in this discussion we often hear that one is so concerned that if more women were to come, it would probably be the most talentless women that companies would pull in, where we do not question the men being dragged in at all. It may well be that companies would simply pull in the best and that it is also in the interests of companies that we have the whole talent pool, both the best men and the best women. In fact, there is no reason to drag in anyone who is not good enough, neither women nor men.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192605	Well, I'm sure you have a lot of focus on recruiting the best, and if it turns out they're not the best, they can be replaced. Well, it's not more complicated. It is not like with the Folketing, where the population chooses some, and then the population hangs on that composition for perhaps up to 4 years before you can evaluate whether it is the right people who are sitting in the Folketing. There is an opportunity in business to change board members more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192634	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192636	Thank you very much. If you now have a man and a woman who has exactly the same conditions and who has exactly the same qualifications, and because you have, so to speak, fulfilled the male quota, is missing a woman, can you not call it discrimination against men on the basis of gender when the man is now elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192658	Yeah, you could say that, but that's the way it is when you work with some conversions. Then there are some who can be downgraded when it comes to giving priority to others. As for the math thing, I don't think you can find so many examples that you have two that are quite equal. I don't think most of them are. But it's clear that when you work with these targets and we can see that we're in a process where it looks like there's going to be a little more women at the top of the management... there's probably some men who don't get there in their careers, and that's how it is. I really don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192737	It is of course very interesting to accept gender discrimination. I wasn't aware of that, but fair enough. If you then have your board of directors and you have, like, filled up with these men that you now need, and then you get some more applications, and there are also some from some men, then you cannot hire them, even if they are more qualified than the women who might then apply, and then you are forced to hire someone who is less qualified. Does the rapporteur not see a problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192805	Now it's target numbers, and then the company has to work with these target numbers itself. It's like, what do you say, how fast you get to the goal, you decide for yourself out there, so there's no automatic in this. I think that the benefits of this scheme are far greater than any drawbacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192828	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513192839	Thank you. We are discussing this proposal to abolish the target figures for the gender composition of management in companies and state institutions. I would like to start by saying that the alternative does not support the proposal, and I will say that on behalf of the SF. When we cannot support this, it is because we take equality very seriously and we believe that it is essential that we have equality, which really gives equal rights, but also equal opportunities for both men and women. This means that we have to deal with some of the structural discrimination that exists in our society, including in the management of companies. Well, we're not proud to look at these numbers coming from different organizations. According to the latest figures I have from the World Economic Forum, we're in 72th place in gender balance. The reason why we are not proud of it is that, when we do not have a better gender balance, we do not exploit the great potential that exists, the whole amount of talent that exists, and we do not do so because we have systems which, like structuralally speaking, stand in the way of it. So you could say, are these numbers enough? In fact, we do not think so, and that is why we did not support the government's mandate in the Committee on European Affairs when it was going down in the autumn and discussing quotas. We simply could not support the fact that we voted against it, because we actually believe that it may be absolutely necessary to have quotas for a transitional period in order to make such fundamental changes as we have to make in our optics in companies and state institutions. So we cannot support this proposal to abolish the target figures. We would like to go further. Now we know that there will have to be an evaluation of this next year, and if it then shows that it has not done enough, we hope that more will be involved in taking further steps so that we can really achieve real equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193047	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193052	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur of the alternative saying that there is indeed a desire for stronger legislation than the present one, and I also sense that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist actually believes that gender quotas by law and a broad possibility to sanction by law is a good idea. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, if he does not believe that private property rights for ordinary people and entrepreneurs who start up a business are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193124	Yes, of course I do, but that is why we still believe that we need to look at how we can bring about the change, the transformation that must take place in our society, in order to achieve real equality. This means that everyone has equal opportunities and equal rights and that we as a society also know how to exploit the full talent we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193148	Now I have spent the last eight months out in reality at the head of a vocational school where we have spent a lot of resources on Young Enterprise. My best bet is that in 4 years' time in Denmark there will be more women in the new vintages who get new CVR numbers than there will be men. This may well be a problem of equality, but I do not think that there is anything that can be done about it from a legislative point of view. I understand that there is a desire for real equality, but I do not think it is an end in itself that there is a gender balance at all levels. Did I misunderstand that the rapporteur might be of the opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193222	I think it is absolutely crucial in our society that we have a gender balance, a balance between men and women, and for a transitional period until we have a real balance, then we think that quotas are a very good tool for achieving it. That is also why I think it is quite reasonable what the European Union is doing and finding the good solutions to this is something that we could work together on in the European Union too, because it is a common challenge in Europe. It may well be that in 100 years' time we will have achieved real equality, but I think we can push on with development.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193256	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193258	Thank you. And thank you for the very clear announcements that you want EU quotas. What, then, is the rapporteur's position on the arguments we have heard this afternoon from the other parties about keeping targets in Denmark, because this is a safeguard against EU quotas? What is the alternative's reflection in relation to that argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193323	In fact, I was wondering whether I should be extremely strategic and suddenly change the attitude I had received from the group and say: fine, we are voting in favour. But now we have this law, which is a small step in the direction we want to go. There will have to be an evaluation next year, and I am pretty sure that will show that not enough has happened. And then I'm sure there are more parties that will help take more steps to do this. So, yes, I could have thought very strategically and thought that through that way we could have brought in EU rules, but that is not how I want to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193401	Well, I just wanted to say thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193404	The rapporteur has no further comments? Laura Lindahl No). Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist. No, I'm sorry, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has to accept another brief remark, and it is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193416	I just have to take the floor here. I have to say that as far as I am concerned, and as far as social democracy is concerned, we are in favour of this law because we believe in it, because we believe that it is the best thing for business and also for Denmark's competitiveness in the longer term, that we get the whole talent pool in play, but also because we think it is important for equality and that it is important for the individual workplace and because we believe that diversity is a strength. So that is why we are in favour of it. I also mention the political reality in Europe, because I think it is also part of history. If you lack arguments, you can always lean on it, and that is what our government has done a great deal today. I would just like to say that the alternative must be a little careful with these EU quotas; firstly, because, I believe, the industry will not benefit very much from the fact that they will be imposed on a certain percentage by 2020, and secondly, because equality will not benefit very much from it, because only the largest listed companies will be subject to these quotas. So it is a very, very hard tool that is really going to have a very, very small gender impact. And that's a bad deal to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193535	Nor do I think I said that I did not believe that the Socialists were in favour of this law for purely strategic reasons. Now it was my own reflections from this chair. First of all, I think it is important to bear in mind that we are not going to confuse two different concepts: equality and diversity. I think it is very important to keep them separate. Equality is like a matter for itself, and beyond that we have diversity strategies which are important. I know very well how EU quotas are described, and the reason why I think they are sensible is that when we push the top, there are some changes. Because when there is a change in management structures in large companies, we are convinced that it will have a very beneficial effect all the way down, but that does not mean that a tool such as target numbers and strategies is not also good tools. We just think it's going very, very slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193642	It is the top in Denmark that moves. It's the buttocks and tails that have trouble keeping up. So what you really want to do if you accept the European quotas is that you want to put the biggest listed companies in the head, and then you will not get the equality effect and the talents in play in the rest of the many companies that really need it. That's what's so brilliant about this. It is soft legislation, but it hits enormously wide, so we get a mass movement going. Then we need to get the minister to enforce it, but otherwise it's gonna run.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193722	I don't quite understand why we brought the top. The figures I have been able to find show that we are, as it were, overtaken by all the other countries in Europe when it comes to top management teams in our C20 companies. That's the kind of thing about 97-3 for the men. So I do not think things are going so well; I have to admit that. It may well be that there are some more recent figures that the questioner has on the table. I'd love to have them. But I also think it is important to say that it sounds as if we can make a really good toolbox of many different options that can include quotas, target numbers, strategies. I find this exciting to see when we get this evaluation in 2017, and hopefully we can really move on and move on to equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193805	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then no one in the Chamber has had a brief comment. We move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513193817	First of all, thank you for a very good debate. It is good that, after all, a late Friday afternoon or early evening, when the sun shines and we have had a long week, we could still have a good debate on this subject. After all, the Liberal Alliance has put forward the proposal to abolish targets for gender composition in management and boards, because in principle we do not believe that politicians should interfere in a company's management composition. The primary focus of companies is on the bottom line, and therefore their only interest is to hire the people both on the floor and in the managements that the company believes they are absolutely best qualified to contribute to growth and a positive bottom line. A company does not separate itself from gender and race and sexuality, because the only thing important to the company is qualifications, because it is the qualified candidate who contributes to the best bottom line. Therefore, it is also the company which is the best at putting together the optimal management. With this motion for a resolution, the Liberal Alliance will give companies the freedom to be able to focus solely on qualifications and not have to take into account everything else, because we believe that the only responsibility a company actually has is to make profits for its shareholders, and we believe that the company must have the freedom to live up to that. After all, it also benefits society as a whole when companies grow. The demand for targets and the development of a policy to promote the underrepresented sex is unnecessary bureaucracy to impose on Danish companies. It is an economic burden, and the competitiveness of Danish companies is already under massive pressure, so the last thing they need is for us in this Parliament to impose additional burdens on them. Eliminating this law will thus improve the framework conditions for Danish companies, and Denmark needs this. More parties consider it problematic that there are more men represented in management than women. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not think it is problematic that people have different priorities. We respect free choice, and equality for us is equality before the law. We do not want to interfere in what the individual chooses. We will not contribute at all to the fact that a woman elected to a top post cannot be sure whether she has been elected because she is the absolute best candidate or whether she has been elected because the company in question just lacked a single woman in order to meet a target figure. As a Liberal, I simply cannot accept legislation that has actually been adopted with the desire to discriminate against citizens in order to achieve theoretical equality in a statistic. Some parties have also mentioned the EU's quotas as an argument for maintaining these targets. It is true that a lot can happen in the European Union that can change the majority and blocking minorities, but I think it is problematic if we always have to take into account in our legislative work in Denmark that there can be a change in the European Union. I know that it has not been the practice of our legislation to take into account if things change in the European Union in this way. We only have to take a look at what is right for Denmark. If, at the end of the day, it is a change of attitude in the European Union, then we could set targets at that time if it is a safeguard against quotas. It is gratifying to note that the Danish People's Party and also the Conservatives support the Liberal Alliance's motion for a resolution and thus actively work for more freedom and better framework conditions for Danish companies. I also take note of the fact that the government and the Left share our intention that companies should be set free. They should be the ones who put their managements and boards together and that they agree that this is not a task for politicians to interfere with. We must therefore wait for the evaluation next year, and I hope that at that time, together with the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, we will be able to push the government further to abolish those targets. Of course, it is a pity that today the Left is blocking the freedom of businesses, but that is the political reality, and there is no doubt that we in the Liberal Alliance will continue to work for the abolition of these targets here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194301	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194310	I understand that the Liberal Alliance was a little surprised that now there was such a bourgeois majority and that the Left then jumps over to the red block in this case. I am very pleasantly surprised at that, perhaps as surprised at it as Mrs Laura Lindahl. So I understand the frustration, and I also think it is quite natural to table this motion for a resolution. Having said that, I also find it worrying that the Liberal Alliance does not have greater confidence in Danish companies, for why on earth should Denmark's largest companies, because of some target numbers and because of some policies, go out and appoint poorly qualified women and men on their boards. How in the world would they benefit from it? After all, they are not imposed by anyone in here, and there is nothing in the law that requires them to bring in unqualified board members or that they should have x number of men or women. I am just saying that they must have their policies and that they must have their ambitions. Why does the Liberal Alliance not have greater confidence in Danish business?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194425	After all, the Liberal Alliance has just fought for confidence in Danish business, which is why we believe that they can handle this themselves, that they can put together the best board of directors. Regardless of what we politicians think is the best board of directors, we believe that companies can do it themselves. We should not get involved in this politically. So I think that we would like to abolish these targets. It is precisely an expression of enormous confidence in the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194452	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194453	They can even today, and all companies know that they can themselves today, so there is no reason to do so to the Danish business community. But it's not some small local grocery store somewhere random. It is the country's largest companies, deeply professional giant companies. They have a lot of resources and check what's decided in here. You know what the law is like. They are well aware that they need to identify the best qualified, but they also need to establish equal opportunities policies. So there is nothing that is forced down on them, that is to say, that they should bring in those who are unqualified. On the other hand, the Liberal Alliance is doing a huge disservice to the Danish economy by seeking to remove this legislation, because then they may just run the risk that some quotas will come from Brussels as they will be imposed, and then there will be no dear mother. They're pinched. And the Liberal Alliance must take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194551	It is clear that we in the Liberal Alliance are not in favour of the EU's quotas, but it is new to me that we should start to legislate from here if and if there is a change in the European Union at some point. It is so much if and if and if it is quite strange that we should take this into account in our legislative work. I do not think that the rapporteur can mention other areas where we sit and legislate here, in relation to if there is any change in the European Union at any time. We can't work like that. It is completely wrong for me that we should take account of the fact that there can be a change in the European Union at some point. Well, that can happen, but we're not in control of that here. So here in Denmark we have to legislate on the basis of what we think is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194638	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194640	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is something weird to have to make legislation based on what might happen in the European Union. Anyway, what I am actually taking the floor for is to ask a question that Mrs Laura Lindahl has asked several people about, namely whether they could understand whether they were elected as a woman or for their talent or for their ability. But does Mrs Laura Lindahl not think that when there are targets and when there is the attention that targets or quotas can give, we are more aware of the recruitment process, that is to say, that we are trying to look a little further out? After all, we have all seen studies about compositions, namely that it runs in networks and that it runs in circles where you look alike. So the forced attention that this can give can help open up the recruitment process and maybe find some much more qualified people for posts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194740	I do not wish to deny that, but my position is based on a fundamental view that companies must find out for themselves. I would really like companies to be more skilled. I have every interest in putting together the best boards, and I would very much like to see role models in companies that take the lead and say: We have put together our board of directors with both men and women and different ethnicities and ages, and that gives a better bottom line. But I want it on a voluntary basis. I want it on the road where companies show that this makes sense to them and that there are other companies who will voluntarily be inspired by it. That's probably the difference. I think the goal can be the same. But the difference is that I am very interested in companies building it from below and that it is not something that we come and impose on them from above.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194832	But when you make this kind of legislation, it is precisely to push for development. It's a kind of help, you might say. Can the rapporteur imagine other tools we could then come with from in here to help our business community become better at recruiting? Because we can clearly see from the figures that there is under-representation, and I do not believe that the talent of women is as low in relation to top positions as the figures we see show. So are there some other tools that the rapporteur can imagine we can then come with as help from here to our business community, just as we are helping with many other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194908	In reality, however, I do not think that we should interfere politically. That is quite a matter of principle. But if you were to point at one thing, my command would be to remove the top treasure. It may sound like the classic Liberal Alliance, but actually we know that women react much more to top tax than men do. Women weigh it up much more: What is my free time worth compared to what I get out of it financially. So if we removed the top tax, I actually think that it would fall into the hands of women on the boards and top management posts, because then women would think it was worth it and they could use the extra economy to hire some help at home, which is typically more important for a woman. So removing the top tax could be a possible bid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513194952	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no more brief comments. Nor does anyone else seem to want to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160513195016	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 17 May 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website. I wish all remaining colleagues a good Pentecost and hope that the Pentecostal sun will dance merry.
