ParlaMint-DK_20160330110010	The meeting is open. From a member of the Danish Parliament, Zenia Stamp, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 1 April 2016 she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. The term of office of Emrah Tuncer as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) has announced that he wishes to resign from his duties as Secretary-General from 29 March 2016. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. In place of Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), the group appointed Bent Bøgsted (DF). The person concerned is then elected. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 149 (Proposal for a Law amending the law on equations, the Income Tax Act, the Act on exchange gains and the Tax Control Act. Bill No. L 150 (Proposal for a Law amending the Registration Tax Act, the Fuel Consumption Tax Act, the Vehicle Registration Act and the Game Act). Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 151 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Disbursements Denmark and various other laws. to Disbursement Denmark etc.) and Bill No. L 152 (Proposal for a law amending the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 153 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general housing, etc.) and the law on the rental of general housing. Bill No. L 154 (Proposal for a law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development. Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen): Bill No. L 155 (Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Peaceful Use of Nuclear Material for Greenland). Minister of Justice (Søren Pind): Bill No. L 156 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Credit Agreements. Bill No. L 157 (Proposal for a law amending the law on insurance contracts and the law on the supervision of company pension funds. of insurance and pensions)). Minister for Business and Growth (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 158 (Proposal for a Law on the control of exports of dual-use products) and Bill No. L 159 (Proposal for a law amending the law on securities trading etc., the law on financial activities, the law on managers of alternative investment funds, etc., the criminal code and the law on the administration of justice. from third parties and information on costs etc. in the Financial Instruments Markets Directive (MiFID II). Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 160 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on State subsidies for electricity-intensive enterprises. Minister for Transport and Building (Hans Christian Schmidt): Bill no. L 161 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. years and a reduction in the age limit for driving licences for small mopeds, etc.). Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Karen Ellemann): Bill No. L 162 (Proposal for a Law on Adult Responsibility for Children and Young People) and Bill No. L 163 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services, the Law on Social Supervision and the Law on Primary School). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on maintaining the ecological objective). Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sale of state-owned campsites). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and René Gade (ALT): Request no. F 28 (on future financing opportunities for entrepreneurs). Titles on the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (jvf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110356	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. And I must say that before voting on a derogation, I will allow a rapporteur from each party to have up to one minute to motivate their position on the issue of exemption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110432	The vote shall be taken on consent. The vote is closed. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT)[, abstentions 0]. The consent is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110511	The debate is open. And then it's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110535	The government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, which requires the government to withdraw Act 73 and instead to table a new one. The Act on Denmark's contribution to the Refugee Facility for Turkey...
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110604	I see that there are some Members who are trying to listen to what is being said, but there are others who are making a lot of noise. So we have to take into account those who really want to listen, and then, of course, the Minister for Finance who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110615	The government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, which requires the government to withdraw Act 73 and instead to table a new one. The act on Denmark's contribution to the refugee facility for Turkey is about securing funding for projects in Turkey to improve the conditions of refugees staying in Turkey. Projects shall include: ensure humanitarian aid to refugees and improve their access to education and the labour market. The financial contribution from the EU is part of the overall agreement concluded by Denmark and the rest of the EU Member States with Turkey to address the migration and refugee challenge. The agreement between the EU and Turkey is based on mutual commitments. Nor can we expect Turkey to fulfil its commitment to limit the influx of migrants from Turkey to the European Union if the European Union fails to fulfil its promise of financial assistance. The government is aware of Turkey's respect for human rights, as it recently stated in the question debate on F 21 on 3 March. The case is being brought to Turkey by the Council of Europe, the EU and Denmark on an ongoing basis in relevant contexts. We will continue to do so. However, this should not prevent us from improving the conditions of the millions of refugees who are in Turkey, while at the same time easing the pressure for refugees on Europe. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110803	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110813	The Minister for Finance presented the agreement as such a kind of aid to refugees in Turkey. So you don't really know anything about that, i.e. whether it's gonna happen at all. What is known to happen is that if the agreement is in order, people will be prevented from fleeing Turkey. You might think that's fair enough. I mean, you could, for example. say, if it was about Denmark: Why should people flee Denmark, there is no persecution going on? So I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance whether Denmark considers Turkey to be a safe third country, that is to say a safe country to which refugees can be sent back. I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance now that we are in the process whether the Minister for Finance can at this stage mention another EU country, another EU country, which regards Turkey as a safe third country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110911	Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110915	Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110921	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330110923	I understand, therefore, that what the Minister is seriously replying is that out of 28 EU countries there is one country I do not know whether that is true, but I assume that the Minister is completely in control when he says it from the Parliament's speaking chair that regards Turkey as a safe country. And that is the country that the rest of the EU countries, including the Minister, have forced to regard Turkey as a safe country. Everyone else refuses to send people back to Turkey because they do not see it as a safe third country. By the way, Greece is the country to which we could not send people for a period of time because their asylum system is so bad. So that is the level to which the Minister refers. Would the Minister please confirm that Denmark cannot and will not send people to Turkey and that when we accept it with Greece, it is because we have forced Greece to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111017	Thank you. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111020	Now Mr. Søren Søndergaard the question of whether one country could be mentioned, and I understand that Greece has recognised Turkey as a safe country. But I'm not an expert on that, so I'm gonna ask Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard to ask the Secretary of State about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111041	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111044	There are a lot of questions that are unanswered in this case. There are many things we do not know about this agreement with Turkey. I would, for example, like: I would like to know what a Danish ship in the Mediterranean Sea could be both a military ship or a merchant ship that picks up a fugitive, an asylum seeker, to do with that person. Should the Danish ship carry them to Greece, or should the Danish ship carry them to Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111118	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111122	I have to say that what I am seeking the support of the Folketing is the financial commitment made by the EU countries in the context of the agreement with Turkey. If there are further questions about what NATO has decided or what others have decided, then I have to refer to the respective ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111145	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111147	But what we are voting on is whether we should send hundreds of millions of dollars to Turkey without making any demands, for example. the respect by Turkey of human rights in relation to refugees. The agreement that these millions of kroner form part of is, after all, about sending refugees from Europe to Turkey. I think it is quite reasonable for the Minister of Finance to answer what a Danish ship in the Mediterranean should do if it picks up a refugee and that happens quite often. It happens very often that Danish merchant ships pick up refugees. They are, in fact, obliged to do so, not to let people drown, and fortunately for that. Where are they gonna take them? Should they sail them to Turkey or Greece?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111232	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111235	What we are discussing today is, after all, this Turkey facility, which aims to support refugees and host communities in Turkey in accordance with the commitments reflected in the EU-Turkey Action Plan and in the EU-Turkey Declaration of 29 November 2015. It is true that there are no special human rights conditions attached to the facility, but it follows from the common understanding annexed to the motion for a resolution. B 76 on the refugee facility in Turkey, the Commission is responsible for managing the contributions to the facility in accordance with the applicable rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111321	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111327	Thank you. I have to say that I am very surprised at the Minister's reply to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Honestly, it's a little absurd. We are in a situation where the Minister for Finance is the responsible minister from the government and the Minister cannot answer whether Greece recognises Turkey as a safe third country or not. This means that an absolutely essential condition for this whole agreement, namely that refugees can be sent back to Turkey, is not clarified. The Minister for Finance refers to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who can reply to that. Well, I don't see the Secretary of State in the Chamber. If the Minister of Finance wants the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be present in the Chamber, then I would urge the Minister to interrupt the negotiations and bring in the Minister for Foreign Affairs, or the Minister for Finance must be able to give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111412	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111415	After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to answer that question during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111419	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111422	I look forward to receiving an answer from the Foreign Minister, but it is now that we have the debate. It is now that we have the debate in this Chamber. We have a very topical debate about over a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars to be sent to the Turkish Government in Ankara. We must then have a situation where, when we have the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, there can also be a clear answer from the Minister. In other words, we cannot have a situation in which, as a Parliament, we have to have a debate and where the government sends its responsible minister without the minister responsible being able to give a clear answer. So, dear Minister, can Greece send refugees back to Turkey because it is recognised as a third country or cannot? Because that's what this deal is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111509	I think I have to clarify again to Mr. Simpson. Nikolaj Villumsen, that what this debate and this motion for a resolution are about is, of course, this facility and the allocation of this money as a result of an agreement concluded in the European Union and not by the finance ministers of the European Union. My task is to ensure that the financial resources are provided in accordance with the agreement, and I think it is a very good agreement with Turkey, because, as paragraph 1, we must help the refugees from Syria who are in Turkey and, as paragraph 2, we must also ensure that we limit the influx of refugees into Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111547	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111550	Thank you. Since this agreement between the European Union and Turkey was concluded, new information has been coming up which, in any case, makes all the alarm bells ring in terms of paying so much money to Turkey, both in terms of human rights violations and freedom of the press by Turkey, but also now, at the latest, that both UNHCR and several NGOs have chosen not to participate in the work of the EU's hot spots, among others. Lesbos. Has there been any dialogue between the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs that perhaps we should consider whether we should pay so much money when there is so much new information on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111630	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111632	I just want to say that the government is very pleased with the agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey, because it ensures two things. It ensures help for the refugees living in Turkey who need help and will make their lives easier, and it will fulfil the second objective: to limit the influx of refugees into Europe. So we're really happy with that deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111700	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111702	I have no doubt about that either. We have discussed this, including in the Committee on European Affairs and so on, namely that we welcome this agreement. I am very critical of it, but I ask again: there has been a great deal of new information, among other things. when the UNHCR chose to go out as violently as they did last week, and from Save the Child, Doctors Without Borders etc. Has it been discussed whether you are just going on with this payout, or has there been any kind of dialogue that there are some of the people here we usually listen to a lot, who are yelling at guard in arms, and whether we should rethink it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111734	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111735	I would just like to reiterate my answer: the government is very pleased with the agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey, and we are fulfilling our part of the commitment, namely to deliver the 286 million. kr., which the agreement implies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111753	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111756	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is in accordance with the refugee convention that refugees arriving in Greece should be returned without assessing their personal asylum motive to Turkey, a country which, moreover, has not fully acceded to the refugee convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111816	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111818	I would like to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111821	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111827	The minister says this is about the purely economic part. How does the Minister think it is perceived by the elected mayors who sit in Turkish prisons, by the editors who have had their newspapers stormed and taken over by the state, by the artists, human rights defenders who are threatened with trial only for statements in Turkey, that Denmark transfers 287 million. kr. or at least more than 200 million. kr. to the Turkish regime?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111902	Thank you. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111904	Now there has been a debate not long ago here in the Folketing on Turkey and Denmark's relations with Turkey, and I shall refer to it there. As far as this money is concerned, I think that most people would be pleased that for the people who have fled their country and live in camps, there are some means that can make their lives easier. I find it hard to imagine that someone would be opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111931	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then it's the rapporteur's line, and that's first, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330111947	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution before us concerns Act 73 of the Committee on Finance, which implements the agreement of November 2015, which the Minister for Finance has just examined, according to which Denmark will be announcing our contribution by tomorrow at the latest. As I understand it, all other EU countries have already made their contribution to international commitments. The Socialists also think it is natural that Denmark should do so, and that is why we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112029	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. Then there are a few brief comments. First from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112036	Thank you. We are not just sending money to Turkey. The money is part of a larger agreement that is about sending refugees from Europe to Turkey, and it is therefore not refugees from Turkey; it is highly Syrian refugees. It is very unclear to me and to many others what this agreement is really about. There is no human rights requirement as to how Turkey should treat these people. I could then sail the ship, and it can be both a military ship or a Danish merchant ship, sail the person to Turkey and drop him off there? Is this part of this deal that these millions of dollars are all about? Or should the Danish ship, merchant ship or military ship sail to Greece and drop the asylum seeker off there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112134	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112138	It is an incredibly exciting discussion that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen is raising. I just do not see that there is anywhere in the act that the Committee on Finance will be discussing tomorrow. After all, we are now debating a motion for a resolution on the agreement reached on 29 November 2015 which deals with it. It's another deal complex. One is, of course, free to debate this also here in the Folketing, but that is just not what the record is about. The act is about whether Denmark should make money available on the basis of the international commitment it has entered into, and I think Denmark should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112211	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112214	No, it is actually a very relevant question. If the EU enters into an agreement with Turkey that Turkey should take the refugees, that the refugees should not come to Europe, that they should go to Turkey, then it must be possible to answer whether a Danish ship that picks up a refugee should sail that refugee to Greece or to Turkey. But I understand that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht does not want to answer the question or cannot answer the question, but that is something else, because the question is extremely relevant. Then let me ask you another question. I mean, the Social Democrats...
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112251	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, it is always best to start with the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112254	Thank you, President. Well, I assume that when we are here today to deal with the resolution before us, which deals with Item 73, that is what we are going to be debating. At least that's what I've been preparing for. I do not see what the questions put by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen have to do with that agreement. As I understand it, it is something that deals with other agreements that have been concluded between the European Union and Turkey, and I think that Denmark should ensure that we comply with our international commitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112326	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112329	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. There may be some disagreement as to whether this agreement was good or bad when it was negotiated, but when this kind of agreement is made and new information then comes out afterwards, I think it is appropriate to reconsider how we should comply with this agreement and whether there is something that makes it necessary for us to renegotiate parts of it. After all, this is a huge payment of money to Turkey to deal with border security for Europe. Since then, there has been information from Turkey on human rights violations, freedom of the press, etc., very strong statements from UNHCR, the Red Children, doctors without frontiers, etc., which at least make me wonder whether we have considered whether it is really tomorrow that this money should be paid out or whether we should take a trip to look at this agreement. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur's party has reconsidered this agreement after all this new information has been provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112434	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112437	There is, of course, a broad majority in the Folketing which has supported that agreement, and that is why we have to decide here whether the Finance Committee should be able to join an act which grants the money that Denmark has already undertaken to send. I have great respect for the parliamentary work and what we also want to do with this motion for a resolution, in other words to have a discussion on it here in the Assembly. That is quite reasonable, but when all the other countries, as I am told, have given the appropriations they have committed themselves to, I think it is right that Denmark should do so too. It will of course be at the very last minute, namely tomorrow, when there is a deadline, but better late than never.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112520	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112523	As I said myself, do I fully recognise that there is a political majority in favour of this agreement, but when new information emerges, as has happened after this agreement has been reached, has the position of the Socialists been reconsidered? Has it just been looked through again when this information has been received from Turkey, when these statements have been made both by the United Nations and by major relief organizations, which we normally listen to and lean on? Has it been reconsidered whether it is really appropriate or whether we should support this resolution which says that some demands must be made in connection with these payments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112601	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112603	Of course, it is always good to think about all sorts of things. Of course, we do the same on a regular basis. But we must also say that Denmark must also be able to fulfil the obligations which we acknowledge and which the broad majority of the Danish Parliament is behind. That's the way it has to be. If we send the government of the city with a negotiating mandate, and if Denmark commits itself to providing aid, which in this case must go to refugees who have the greatest need of help, then of course we must also be able to live up to it. I think it would be quite unheard of if Denmark, as the only country, were not to be able to accept the commitments that we have accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112641	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112648	The Socialist rapporteur apparently does not know where he is and has no idea what we are discussing. We're not discussing Act 73. No, we are discussing the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, namely B 107. That is what we are discussing. That's what it says on the board. This proposal is about withdrawing the dossier, resubmitting it and adding that the condition for payment is that humanitarian standards and human rights are respected in connection with the payment of the money. That is what we are asking the Social Democrats to do. You wouldn't think it was that difficult. Imagine that a lot of taxpayers' money is being paid out, and then there will be no question of whether there should be humanitarian conditions and human rights conditions attached to it. That is what the proposal is about. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to come back to the Chamber, come back to B 107 and deal with it, instead of dealing with an act that we are not discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112749	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112753	I think this is a very strange way of putting forward views. If we are to deal seriously with the proposals of the Enhedslisten, then we must also ask for a proper tone in this Chamber. I don't think that's a fair tone. I can understand what this is about. There has been no agreement with the resolution adopted by a large majority in the Folketing. It's okay, and you can do that. Then you take advantage of the parliamentary opportunity that you have in order to ask for an action to be taken in this Chamber. That is also right and proper. But what we are talking about is, of course, whether Denmark should fulfil an obligation or not fulfil an obligation. And I think it would be quite unheard of if Denmark, in this situation, where it is about getting money, such as... must ensure that refugees who are in a serious situation do not have to live up to it. That would be something weird. So, excuse me, it is quite all right to use all available methods, but there must therefore be reasonableness in the debate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112856	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112859	The Socialist rapporteur rejected the questions put by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen on the grounds that they had nothing to do with Act 73. That's the truth. And the reality is that they may not have. But they have something to do with motion for a resolution No. B 107, which is what we are discussing in the Chamber right now: the Danish Parliament requires the government to withdraw the act 73 and present a new one, which shows that no funds made available through the refugee facility for Turkey will be paid out.. The very simple question is: What does the Social Democratic Party think of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112945	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330112948	Social democracy seems that if we followed that line of thought, we would be in a situation where we could not reach our commitments tomorrow, and that would put Denmark in an extremely bad situation. That would be unreasonable, especially since we have sent a government with a clear negotiating mandate in this area. Of course, the social democracy stands by the agreements we have made, and we are therefore also aware that this would ultimately mean that there would be Syrian refugees who would not be able to receive help, and it is surely not reasonable to hold them hostage in such a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113018	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113022	Okay, so the Socialists do not consider it appropriate to demand that the Turkish Government respect fundamental human rights and comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I think that's unwise. I mean, Turkey is right now a country that creates refugees. A month ago, I visited the Kurdish capital in Turkey, Diyarbakir, in the eastern part of the country, and in Diyarbakir alone, over 30,000 civilians have been expelled from their homes because of the violent fighting taking place in the city. Overall, it is estimated that it is up to 200,000 civilians in the Kurdish cities under military siege in the eastern part of the country right now who have been chased on the run from their house and their homes. Turkey is a country that creates refugees, and it is not just something that I am concerned about; it is indeed the case that on 29 January this year the European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment requiring Turkey to ensure that civilians in the besieged cities had access to medical care. Turkey has not yet complied with that judgment. Is it really wise not to demand compliance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights when we are dealing with a country that creates refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113138	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113141	Well, these are incredibly serious pictures, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is drawing up, and I'm happy to admit that. But we must also note that it will not put the many Syrian refugees who sit in Turkey in a better situation, that we will not pay the money out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113200	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113203	Well, the problem is that we have an Amnesty report which, for example, is: Says that what is happening to Syrian refugees is that they are being captured by the Turkish authorities and beaten up in prisons until they sign that it is okay that they can be sent back across the Syrian border. So I think that there are reasonable grounds for making demands on Turkey to respect completely banal human rights in relation to refugees, but also in relation to Turkey's own people. I would ask the rapporteur to answer the question I asked: is it really wise that, when it comes to a country that creates refugees, we do not demand that country to stop creating refugees, that they start to comply, yes, just the decisions that they have actually already undertaken to follow, namely the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113249	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113252	At any rate, we can discuss whether it would be wise to take a different decision from the one proposed in relation to the funds in question here. Because I certainly do not believe that it will make it easier for any government or any EU leaders in the future to conclude agreements with Turkey to improve human rights, etc., if it is the case that there are countries that do not meet their obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113318	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113335	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday, a majority in the Folketing voted for B 76 on the refugee facility for Turkey. The Danish People's Party, together with the Enhedslisten, voted against this proposal. We did so from the point of view that Turkey's assistance in ensuring that asylum seekers do not sail from Turkish territory should not be linked to Turkey's getting closer to becoming a member of the European Union or obtaining visa-free access to Europe. The Enhedslisten states in their motion for a resolution that the human rights situation in Turkey is so serious that the payment of funds to Turkey should only take place if the human rights situation improves. The Danish People's Party shares the view that freedoms are being kidnapped in Turkey, but we do not share the view that, in this context, funds should be withheld which a majority in the Danish Parliament has decided to make available. If Denmark can only make funds available to countries that have no remarks in the field of human rights, then Denmark cannot make funds available to very many countries, perhaps to Norway, perhaps to New Zealand, but we could just as well involve the whole of development aid if it is the case that Enhedslisten's proposals here should apply in general. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that refugees and asylum seekers are basically not subjected to persecution in Turkey. According to the EU, Turkey is also a safe country to send refugees back to. If it is the view of the Enhedslisten that the human rights situation in Turkey is so serious that refugees cannot be returned to Turkey, then the logical consequence of the view must be that the 2.5 million refugees currently in Turkey should be placed elsewhere, for example. in Denmark or another European country, and it is true for virtue not a conclusion that we are prepared to draw in the Danish People's Party. Refugees must be helped in their neighbourhood. It is better for Denmark, it is better for the refugees, and it is better for the country to which they would like to go and help rebuild when we have defeated the Islamic State. I must also say that the proposal here is unnecessarily tired. Yesterday, a majority in the Folketing voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which allows the adoption of the act which Enhedslisten is trying to stop with this proposal. So, whether you like it or not, a majority in the Folketing has materialised in favour of the refugee facility for Turkey, and that we are now discussing this matter again, is, I believe, a waste of parliamentary time. The majority of the Folketing will probably not invoke ignorance of the human rights situation in Turkey either. For the Danish People's Party, it is absolutely crucial that the migratory current that we have witnessed over recent months is brought to an end. We have been sceptical about this, I recognise that Turkey would live up to the agreement, and it is still too early to assess whether or not it will be. But it is necessary to use all the instruments in the toolbox to stop that influx. As long as the perspective of permanent residence remains on the horizon for potential migrants, the flow to Europe will probably continue. That is basically the idea of being able to change a life in the Third World with a life in Europe that we must do away with. We must not be able to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark as a refugee, and the protection that we are obliged to provide to people at risk must be given in a third country. We are prepared to do so in the Danish People's Party, and I would also like to call for other parties here who are prepared to realise that the integration of tens of thousands, indeed millions of immigrants from mostly Muslim countries is an insurmountable task for Europe. In addition, the cultural barriers between the Islamic world and the Judeo-Christian world are too massive. This is what we have been taught for the last 45 years, and it is incomprehensible that it has not yet settled with all parties here at Christiansborg. The Danish People's Party recognises that the agreement reached between Turkey and the EU basically contains major problems, but the biggest problem is far from the money. The main problem is the linking of membership and visa freedom to Turkey's basic obligation, including the right to vote and stand for election. As a result of the intergovernmental agreement between Turkey and Greece to withdraw asylum seekers. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113823	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113826	Thank you. I think there is an interesting question. The interesting question arises as to whether it can really be the policy of the Danish People's Party that we should be a laughing stock for our own money. What we are talking about here is becoming a laughing stock for more than a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars. In other words, we are dealing with a country that creates refugees who themselves are fleeing their own citizens. Up to 200,000 of Turkey's own citizens are currently, as we stand here talking, being chased on the run. Is it really sensible to give more than a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars to a government that is fleeing its own citizens, or would it not be sensible to demand of that government, in order for it to get this money, that it just began to live up to completely trivial things, such as following the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, so that there can be medical assistance for civilians in the besieged cities so that they do not have to be chased on the run towards Europe? Wouldn't that be quite reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113926	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330113928	After all, the money does not go to the Turkish Government. The money goes to NGOs on application, and what we must also bear in mind if we now take as the basis, as the Enhedslisten says, precisely that refugees cannot be safe in Turkey, is the question: what is the solution of the Enhedslisten? Is the Enhedslist's solution to importing 2.5 million so-called refugees into Europe? What is it you want to do with them? It is very, very simple to come here and then throw such a motion for a resolution as the current one on the table without giving any other solution whatsoever, but none of that comes from the Enhedslisten, not from the shadow of it, and I would like to see Enhedslisten gradually get their way of saying it. Come with some honest talk, tell the Danish people that Enhedslisten is in favour of 2.5 million refugees in Turkey being re-inhabited in Europe if that is what Enhedslisten is in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114025	Here you go, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114027	Where are the Syrian refugees who are in Turkey right now coming from? They're coming, among other things. from the Kurdish city of Kobane, where 400,000 fled when the Islamic State attacked. What did Enhedslisten do? The Enhedslisten suggested that Denmark should support the Kurdish defence of Kobane, so that a massacre of civilians was avoided. The Danish People's Party voted against. When the city was then liberated, Enhedslisten suggested that Denmark put pressure on the Turkish Government so that the Turkish Government opened the border into Kobane so that the 200,000 refugees who have now returned to the city could be allowed to rebuild their city, where 80%. It's ruined. What did the Danish People's Party do? The Danish People's Party voted against. Frankly, I have to say that it would be good if the Danish People's Party, for once, just started putting action behind words and doing something when you actually talk about helping in the neighbourhoods. One could, for example, vote in favour of Enhedslisten's proposal the third time this is the time of happiness. Vote for us not to be a laughing stock for our own money, a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars, against a government that itself creates refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114128	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114130	That was a lot of talk from the hot countries, I would say. The Enhedslisten must understand that if it is the case that you want to help in the neighbourhoods; if it is the case that you want to prevent refugees, asylum seekers from coming to Europe, we must also be prepared to actually help in the neighbourhoods. We have always said this on the part of the Danish People's Party that we are. We are also prepared to help financially to keep those in the vicinity. What we are not prepared for is that Turkey should have concessions in relation to membership of the European Union and have visa freedom for their citizens to pay for it. We're not ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114207	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114212	This is an interesting discussion we have just had here. If we say that we have 0.25 billion. kr., what do we need them for? Should we use them to give to the Turkish Islamist regime so that they can pass them on to their own NGOs with a dubious result, or should we, for example, do so? I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. This is, of course, a very interesting discussion and there is no doubt that on the part of the Enhedslisten we want refugees not to get there. They must be given the opportunity to return, and that is why we think that the money should be spent wisely, and that is not how it is spent here. That's what this story and the discussion about it are all about. What we authorized yesterday was the principle of making such an act. Then there is the specific wording, and there we do not propose that that money should not be put into payment. We are merely proposing that the actual payment should be subject to certain conditions. Is it not good Danish People's Party policy that when you pay out tax dollars, there are some conditions attached to paying out the money? What conditions does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party wish to impose for us to pay out 286.1 million? kr. of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114331	I can say that very clearly. This is the end of the flood of asylum seekers in boats crossing the Aegean Sea. That is the demand of the Danish People's Party. If that power actually stops and we're going to look at additional funding, then we're willing to look at it. What is our problem is the link between Turkey's future membership of the European Union and Turkey's willingness to comply with international rules, to comply with the existing agreement between Greece and Turkey, in other words the intergovernmental agreement that Turkey should accept asylum seekers coming into Greek territory from Turkey. That's what's crucial to this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114418	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114422	I think that we are reaching the political core of this, and I think that is very good, because that is where the political disagreement lies. In other words, the Danish People's Party will help to grant this money, if they could be sure that it meant that the refugees were kept away and that it was decoupled from the issue of EU membership. The Enhedslisten believes that the money must, of course, go to what it is allocated to, but at the same time it must be ensured that people are not given a teddy bear with one hand and beat them with the other hand and force them to sign a declaration that they are voluntarily returning to Syria. It is, after all, like the political difference. Is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114504	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114507	I really wish that Enhedslisten would have the same starting point in relation to e.g. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the In other words, if the Enhedslisten made the same demands in relation to when foreign aid is paid out to the worst dictatorship countries around the world that they make in relation to the payment of this money, then I would say that we could save a great deal on the developing budget, which we might be able to spend somewhere else. So I would urge Enhedslisten to, so to speak, walk the line out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114540	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330114550	Thank you. Look, if this was an episode of the American TV series West Wing, we'd be doing what's called a filibuster. And what is a filibuster? Yes, according to Wikipedia, it is an organised obstacle, typically in the form of a very long speech, possibly more, or a retention of procedural issues with the main main objective of preventing the adoption of a legislative proposal in a decision-making body or an assembly, such as a national parliament. The term comes from the United States Senate, where the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to speak from a senator who continues to speak. The so far longest filibuster speech in the U.S. Senate was given by Strom Thurmond at that time democratic senator in 1957 when he spoke against the proposed civil rights legislation for 24 hours and 18 minutes. The proposal was nevertheless adopted. Fortunately, we now have a Rules of Procedure here in the Folketing and an authoritative chairman who prevents the Enhedslisten from speaking and speaking and speaking, but if we did not, I am sure that Mr. Søren Søndergaard wanted to speak yet, so that one could prevent the agreement from being concluded and Denmark from signing at the right time. That's how the procedure was. Then I think I have also said what the Left thinks about the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. If we then have to go to the material content, this is a demonstration of how hollow it sounds when Enhedslisten talks about providing aid to refugees in the neighbourhood. I've just been in Jordan for five days with, among other things. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten, where we were very much in agreement that there is much more point in giving money to the neighbourhood rather than giving it in Denmark. We can come, some say 15-20 times, others say 10-15 times as far for the same means by providing help in the neighbourhoods. The problem with the outlying areas is that they lie where they lie. Syria's vicinity is not Norway or New Zealand, as were the two examples that the Danish People's Party used for countries that live up to human rights. The neighbouring regions of Syria are countries such as Turkey, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and then it is Israel. And when I look at the Enhedslisten, I think we can agree that at least the Enhedslisten believes that Israel is also not a country that respects human rights. Iraq certainly does not, and Lebanon does not. Jordan certainly does so to a greater extent than Turkey, but when it comes to such things as freedom of religion, which is also a human right, we were told in Jordan that yes, they do. But they only have that far, so that if you are a Christian, you are allowed to remain a Christian, while a Muslim who wants to convert from being a Muslim to becoming a Christian is incarcerated. It is not quite such a hundred per cent respect for human rights. I am not going to stand here and defend Turkey. I think that the scenes we have seen where the government police and military have stormed newspaper offices are horrible and that we must protest all that we can. But we have to accept that we are living in the real world, and the real world is such that the countries located in the neighbourhood do not respect human rights, although of course we in Denmark would like it to be different and, of course, we on the Danish side must put pressure on those countries to come more in line with international human rights. Then we have to provide assistance in the neighbourhood, we have to provide aid where the refugees are, and that is currently in Turkey. The agreement we have made on the part of the European Union will make life much more tolerable for the refugees in Turkey, and it will mean that we will hopefully be able to stop the flow of refugees into Europe so that we can provide more aid in the neighbourhood where we agree that it is best provided. But in the Left, we live in the real world and accept that the immediate areas that exist, that is, unfortunately, do not live up to human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115009	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115013	Now I do not quite know whether I dare take the floor here, but it is a parliament. In other words, parle is French and means to speak, so it must, after all, be allowed, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, of course, to say a few words. But what I thought was a little weird about the speech was the fact that it sounded like this deal is about something we're giving. It is also about something that we are preventing. In other words, we are preventing some people from seeking asylum on a basis that we would accept in Denmark. The Left has an integration minister and the question is whether the Minister for Integration would behave in the same way as we are now asking Greece to behave in accordance with the agreement that has been reached. There is a very central question, Mr President, about the rapporteur of the Left. Jan E. Jørgensen, sees Turkey as a safe country. Or directly asked: Does Denmark view Turkey as a safe country to which refugees can be sent back? That's what the deal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115127	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115131	Yeah, and I guess the question was the last one. Yes, we do, but not one hundred percent, and there will be Kurds, for example, for whom Turkey does not constitute a safe country. So it is clear that there must be individual treatment of the cases involved, and that will also happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115150	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115153	Well, maybe the problem is that we haven't had enough of a thorough discussion, because that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says here is simply not right. We have received a reply from the Ministry of Integration, from the rapporteur's own colleague, which says quite clearly, and I would like to quote: Denmark does not currently regard Turkey as a safe third country. Denmark does not currently regard Turkey as a safe third country, and that is why there are no examples that we have expelled people who have applied for asylum to Turkey. There are no examples according to the Refugee Board. It is therefore a little interesting that we have a situation in which we recommend an agreement to do exactly the opposite of what Denmark itself is doing and what the Danish minister from the rapporteur's own party is doing. Does the rapporteur not find this strange?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115256	No, the rapporteur does not think so. It's gonna be a dispute over words. I specifically said that Turkey was not a safe third country for everyone. Of course, you can say that then Turkey is not a safe third country. However, among the refugees who are now in Turkey and who are then trying to leave and will be sent back, there will be some that it would not be reasonable to send back. For example, some Kurds may be involved, and this will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115323	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115327	Thank you. Well, I think we can actually agree very much that the absolute king of Jordan is in many ways a scoundrel guilty of a large number of violations of human rights. That is also why we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party propose that aid from developing countries, development aid and humanitarian aid should be provided through the United Nations rather than bilaterally. And that is what we have criticised the government for doing: giving far too much bilateral support to various crooks instead of giving it through the UN, so you are sure that things are going on properly. That, in fact, is what we are discussing here. Here we have a government in Turkey which does not fulfil its obligations to respect fundamental human rights; which does not follow the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and that is what will now be given over 0.25 billion. kr. So it is a Turkish government that has said no to the UN coming in and setting up refugee camps in Turkey. So just to understand the rapporteur correctly: would it not be sensible for us to make the banal demand that Turkey live up to its obligations before we gave them over a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115438	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115442	You get a little tired, but fortunately there are only two of the Enhedslisten's members left, so I guess this will end. Well, basically, it's about the best being the worst enemy of the good. Because, of course, there is a great deal of what comes in the Palavs of Enhedslisten, or what we should call it to stay in parliament, which makes sense. Yes, it would be fantastic if we could make a demand on Turkey that they respect human rights in return for our making this agreement and then we would have solved the human rights problem in Turkey. That would be amazing. Is that realistic? No. That is why we are taking the agreement which we have been able to negotiate and which is the best possible in the reality in which the rest of us find ourselves. And then it is fine that some people are saying that there are human rights violations in Turkey. I would also very much like to help draw attention to this, because unfortunately this is happening. I also believe that if we are to go into the Danish People's Party's speech about Turkey's possible membership of the European Union has long, long prospects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115557	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115600	Well, I understand that it is a pity for the rapporteur of the Left to discuss it, because there is obviously not a clear answer. In other words, the situation is that we are about to give over a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars to a government that does not live up to its own obligations. There is nothing in the Enhedslisten's proposal that Turkey should not follow today. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe. Turkey has signed the European Convention on Human Rights. Turkey is obliged to follow the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. In other words, should it not just be quite basic logic that you were not a joke about your own money, that is, people you give over a quarter of a billion tax dollars, are of course expected to live up to the agreements that you have already made with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115647	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115650	I am, of course, pleased with the care of Enhedslisten for taxpayers' money; I shall remember that for another good time. Yeah, there's so much that should happen. Agreed. And that would be amazing... amazing! I say that without any irony or sarcasm. It really would be. But does Enhedslisten seriously believe that it would make a difference if Denmark put its heels in and said: Erdogan, you can forget about this quarter of a billion if there is no freedom of speech before Monday and if the closed newspapers do not reopen etc.? Does Enhedslisten really believe that it would make a difference? I'm afraid I don't think so. And since it will not make a difference, you just have to ask yourself the question: What is the alternative? The alternative is: no deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115740	Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330115755	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is a proposal which relates to the resolution adopted yesterday by Parliament under B 76. With that proposal, the Folketing gave the government consent to contribute a total of 286 million. kr. to a coordinated EU action in Syria's neighbourhood, specifically to improve the conditions for refugees in Turkey, with the aim of reducing the influx of refugees into Europe and making the lives of the more than 2 million refugees in Turkey a little more tolerable. Following the agreement, Turkish citizens now have the prospect of obtaining visa freedom in the EU, just as future Turkish EU membership has re-entered the EU agenda. That's gotta be it. When two parties conclude an agreement, there must be advantages for both sides; otherwise the incentive to comply with that agreement is very small. In fact, in the Liberal Alliance, we have a great deal of sympathy for the fundamental considerations expressed by the authors of the motion for a resolution before us. Turkey clearly does not respect fundamental freedoms or human rights such as freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the protection of ethnic minorities, which are among the key values of which the citizens of the European Community must be protected. So in the Liberal Alliance we recognise that there are very problematic conditions in Turkey. We also had a very good debate on this in this Chamber a few weeks ago. However, as far as the actual flow of refugees and migration is concerned, which we are in the middle of, action is essential. Ever since the first boats began to cross the Aegean Sea, a common European solution has been talked about in Brussels and other European capitals. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not believe that the problem of refugees and migration will be resolved by this agreement between the European Union and Turkey. However, we recognise that the agreement is a step in the right direction to remedy the situation. The Liberal Alliance, together with a majority in the European Committee, supported the government's journey to the European Union and helped to reach an agreement with Turkey. As a natural consequence of this, we supported B 76 on the refugee facility for Turkey and therefore cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120033	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120040	If I'm gonna live up to sir... Jan E. Jørgensen's appointment as chief filibuster speaker, I'd better use my minute. What I want to say is that I fully understand and recognise the Liberal Alliance's assessment. We just have the opposite assessment. And I would really like to know what the Liberal Alliance is based on. We believe that this has provided the Turkish President with an instrument for constantly blackmailing the European Union. It started with 3 billion. euros, and then all of a sudden we talked 6 billion. euro. This, of course, also means something to the Danish economy. Part of it should be in crowns. But what happens when Erdogan comes and says in a few months, this is gonna be really expensive? What if he comes and says, "We're gonna have 9 billion?" euro; if we do not get 9 billion. Euro, we'll let the boats sail again? He said so himself. He has said that people would be put on airplanes and sent to Europe if the agreement were not passed. I mean, where is it that you have any assurance whatsoever that you have not just left open for blackmail, and where does the Liberal Alliance's border go in that blackmail?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120151	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120153	I think the honest answer is that there is no guarantee of that. We don't know that. We can be told that as time progresses and we see how Turkey acts. It is true that when you open a debate and open a dialogue with a partner such as Turkey, you are also vulnerable to blackmail from the other side. My assessment is that the opposite of engaging in dialogue with Turkey, namely not engaging in dialogue with Turkey, not making an agreement with Turkey, is even worse. If you do not do so, you have a scenario where we have a neighbouring country, that is, a country bordering on the European Union, where there are increasing problems of respect for fundamental human rights, where you suppress your own people, where you have more than 2 million refugees sitting, and so we have the European Union as a neighbour, which does not engage in dialogue with Turkey, which does not address those problems. The consequences of this approach, I think, but of course it is an assessment, are worse than what we are doing here, namely to engage in a dialogue with a partner who obviously has problems in respecting absolutely fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120300	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120302	I fully agree that we must have a dialogue with Turkey. We need more. This is among other things. Therefore, the Enhedslisten constantly has meetings with various representatives from both the government and opposition sides in Turkey. So we can agree entirely on the issue of dialogue. The question is, of course, what to pay for accepting to close your eyes to certain things that Turkey itself has undertaken to observe, but which they do not respect. But I understand the answer in the sense that if in a few months' time a new application of another 3 billion will be made. The euro, of which Denmark must cover part, will the Liberal Alliance be open to discussing whether we should continue at that time? Can I interpret the answer that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120346	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120347	I would like to reply to the specific point, but the questioner said something that I would also like to comment on, that this agreement is now paying to close our eyes to the problems in Turkey. I don't see it that way. I do not close my eyes to the problems that exist in Turkey as regards respect for fundamental human rights. On the contrary. If we now open up chapters on EU membership, it is precisely to open up a dialogue in order to put pressure on the Turkish Government on the problems that we two agree that the Turkish Government has. On the question of where our limit goes, I can say that I cannot put a figure on it. It's an ongoing assessment. If you're going to look back at how this development has just been shaped over the past year, you see that it's naive to quantify how the process is going to be handled in the future. So it's an ongoing assessment. However, our position is that we need to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120448	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120451	Thank you. Now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that these human rights violations in Turkey must be discussed in the context of the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union. I think it is important to remember that Turkey has already committed itself to respect human rights. You can sit and negotiate and say: you must also do so in the future if you are to join the European Union. So, Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, Turkey has signed the European Convention on Human Rights. Turkey must follow court rulings of the European Court of Human Rights. The situation is, of course, that we are giving a country over a quarter of a billion Danish tax dollars without requiring them to comply with the agreements they have already made, the commitments they have already said they will meet. These are trivial human rights. Is it really good Liberal Alliance policy to give away a quarter of a billion tax dollars without demanding that the agreements that have been reached be respected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120557	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120558	It is good liberal policy and therefore good policy for the Liberal Alliance to be realistic in terms of the challenges that we face in Europe. As I said before, the alternative is to enter into negotiations with Turkey, among other things. on membership of the European Union, not to do so. It is the case in negotiations that, whether you like the negotiating partner or not, you have to give something and you have to take something and what we have to negotiate with, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). These are the cards we have to play with. The Turkish Government has other cards to play with, and that is the case in a debate. It does not make me think that Turkey is a good regime and that I do not think there are very great problems in respecting human rights in Turkey. However, a realistic assessment of how best to put pressure on the Turkish regime, coupled with the factual situation that there are 2.5 million refugees in Turkey, simply means that we have to have a realistic approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120708	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120711	Then maybe we'll come back to those assessments of the situation that we discussed before. In my world, it is totally unrealistic to expect fewer refugees to come into a situation where there are no demands for respect for fundamental human rights and compliance with these court rulings from the Court of Human Rights to a government that itself creates refugees. The latest figures are 200,000 refugees not created by Syria, not by Afghanistan, not by Iraq, not by Eritrea, no, created by Turkey itself. It is Turkish citizens who are being hunted down by the Turkish military. Is it not totally unrealistic to expect that there will be no more refugees if the Turkish Government is not required to comply with the agreements they have already concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120800	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120801	I think it is. I think the questioner is right about that. But again: the alternative to negotiating and cooperating with Turkey is that we have a neighbour, Turkey, where there are 2.5 million refugees, including internally displaced persons, as the questioner also points out and that we are not in negotiations with that regime. This does not mean that the situation is ideal; it does not mean that I think it is a partner who, if one could choose and choose with whom one would really like to negotiate, but that is what the world is, and we have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120836	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330120845	Thank you. From the outset, in the alternative, we have been very sceptical about the agreement between the European Union and Turkey and, unfortunately, we have already seen that our fears about the consequences of the agreement have proved to be true. Today, Turkey faces massive challenges when it comes to respect for human rights, the rights of minorities and political freedom of expression. Furthermore, Turkey has acceded to the Geneva Convention with a geographical restriction which means that the state only regards refugees from Europe as refugees. This means that Syrian refugees do not fall de facto under Turkey's protection obligation. In fact, it gives only the 2.5 million Syrian temporary refugee status with a lower level of protection. Just over a month ago, thousands of people were fleeing Assad's barrel bombs in Aleppo and threatening famine. Those people were stranded at the Turkish border because they had closed the border. If that is how Turkey is expected to manage the agreement, I find it difficult to see how it is going to benefit Turkish refugees, and that is why I share the proposers' concerns about cooperation with Turkey. But it is also important to me that Turkey does not become our scapegoat. Our own motives with this agreement may concern me even more. In response to the agreement concluded between the European Union and Turkey, a number of humanitarian organisations have recently chosen to withdraw from part of their involvement in the so-called EU hotspots in Greece, in particular at Lesbos. That is precisely the point of arrival of many refugees in Europe. This applies, among other things, to: The UN Refugee Agency, UNHCR, it is the case of Doctors without Borders, Danish Refugee Aid and Save the Child. The organisations do not believe that they can support the implementation of the agreement, because it actively undermines the basic rights of refugees. Save the child wants, for example. I understand that not to be involved in the detention of children and to shut them inside what are, in fact, landfill camps. The reaction of the organisations should cause the alarm bells to ring in Brussels and here at Christiansborg. How to ignore that criticism is a mystery to me. This means that with Danish development funds we are helping to finance an agreement that actively opposes compliance with Denmark's and the EU's international obligations, and now we have the organisations' words for it. In addition, a number of organisations, including the United Nations, have expressed a fundamental criticism of the part of the agreement that allows the EU to send refugees back to Turkey before their case has been examined by European authorities. It is therefore an agreement that in practice means the forced repatriation of refugees who have a contractual right to our protection. The agreement seems to me to be a change, so it is now NGOs, and not states, that in practice guarantee compliance with our international obligations. This is simply unacceptable and an expression of a dangerous slippery path, in which our resolutions actively undermine the refugee conventions. It is not worthy of a rule of law such as Denmark. It is therefore quite wrong to call the agreement a solution to the refugee challenge. It is to me to see more of an expression of a disclaimer of responsibility and an outsourcing of our own commitments to Turkey. On the Danish side and on the wider European side, there has been no political will and no courage to agree on a real solution to the challenges, because that is not because there are no alternatives. In the alternative, we support the proposal to withdraw item 73, not only because we do not see the time right to conclude this agreement with Turkey, but also because we believe that the agreement is fundamentally problematic and irresponsible. We hope that the government and the European Union will review the terms of the agreement so that it helps to strengthen the humanitarian effort in Turkey and Europe and, above all, helps to ensure that we fulfil our contractual obligations and that payments to Turkey naturally require the same commitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121303	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121308	The rapporteur is now on the high horse of morality. I have to ask the rapporteur two clear questions. Firstly, where should the 2.5 million so-called refugees who are currently living in Turkey be when Turkey is not a safe country? Secondly, can the rapporteur mention a single neighbouring country for refugee-producing countries in which his party, the alternative, will accept the presence of refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121340	I think it is really crucial that when the European Union goes in and negotiates with Turkey to find a common solution to this challenge, as it is that there is war in Syria and there are a lot of refugees, we go in and press for Turkey, of course, to live up to human rights; and that when we choose to pay out 3 billion. The euro plus, plus, plus, of course, we are demanding that the refugee conventions be signed so that the refugees are properly protected. I am not saying that we should not cooperate with Turkey, but I say that we need to make demands on that cooperation and not just jump on everything because we want to close our external borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121419	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121421	That was not the answer to the question I asked. - Sir... Rasmus Nordqvist mentions one country where he believes that a fugitive can safely reside in a nearby area, and can Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist please tell us where the 2.5 million potential asylum seekers who are currently in Turkey should be, if that is the case, that they cannot be in Turkey? Is it in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121445	I am sorry if the questioner did not hear my answer. I am not saying that these refugees should not be in Turkey. I say that when the European Union goes in and makes an agreement where we pay such a large amount of money to a country, then we have to make some demands. And one of the demands is that the refugee conventions should of course be signed, so that refugees and not only European refugees are recognised. So I am not talking about removing all refugees from the neighbourhood because there are problems in the countries. No, I'm talking about, of course, making demands when we pay money to these countries and make strategically close cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121523	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121526	Thank you. First of all, I just want to say, I do not know whether it is to eradicate a misunderstanding with the rapporteur, but at least to mention something that has gone again in the course of the debate here. So what we are discussing here, what was the background to B 76, what is the background to the dossier, and what is the background to this motion for a resolution, is, after all, a decision in relation to an agreement that the European Union made with Turkey back in November. What the rapporteur raises in his remarks is the situation regarding the new agreement after the Council meeting this March. And what I would like to ask the rapporteur for the alternative is that the agreement stipulates that the refugee facility must provide humanitarian aid, support the refugees' development needs and support the Turkish authorities in addressing the refugee challenge. What does the alternative disagree with, and what does the alternative see?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121620	What I am pointing out in my speech here, and as I have pointed out when we have discussed it, both in the Committee on European Affairs and here in the House earlier, is that this agreement confuses the management of and humanitarian aid for refugees with border management, in other words ensuring the external borders of the European Union. I think it is extremely problematic that we should mix things up in this way. And we have also criticised the choice of taking funds from development funds, precisely because it is not a clear humanitarian effort that is being made, but that there are also all the elements of border protection in this agreement. So we think it's a messy deal. In addition, we still believe, as I said to a previous questioner, that it is absolutely essential, when we make close strategic cooperation, that we then demand that fundamental human rights standards be met, including, of course, that they adhere to the refugee conventions, so that they recognise the refugees they have. That is what we can do when we have money in our hands, so also push for these rights to be strengthened in these countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121725	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121726	Well, I kind of have respect for that point of view, I just disagree. But what I just have to remind you again is that the 286 million. kr. we are discussing here today has been agreed on the basis of an agreement made between EU leaders and Turkey back in November, and it does not, of course, contain a border protection element, as the new agreement does, which was concluded at the Council meeting in March. And that is why I do not understand it, because it has been said for a very long time that we need pan-European solutions to solve the refugee crisis and that we also need to do more in the neighbourhood, and this is, of course, a pan-European approach to the refugee crisis, and secondly, it is a concrete help in the neighbourhood where there are 2.7 million Syrian refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121812	Well, I can't understand how the questioner can separate these agreements so significantly when it was just decided at the March meeting to say that there should be more layers in this agreement. It is not a single agreement, and then there will be another agreement that we will decide on later. No, this is one big agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey, where layers have been laid. And that is why we have to say: Hello, there are differences in this; it is not just a humanitarian effort, there are also border protection elements in it. So that is not a humanitarian effort from our point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121842	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330121851	Thank you. I really want to start somewhere else. I will start by telling the Folketing here that I was actually born in Turkey, come very often in Turkey, have family in Turkey. And there is no doubt that something has happened in Turkey with regard to the developments that have now taken place in relation to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the fact that the government can take over a newspaper that is government-critical, that one can be punished for being critical of the President and so on. These things are going a little in the wrong direction, and that is why we in the Danish Parliament have also made a joint letter, a decision in which we are putting a little pressure on Turkey to get a little control over these conditions, which unfortunately go the wrong way. What needs to be said is that some of these challenges have been in Turkey for 20-30 years, so some of these conditions are not entirely new. So it goes the wrong way, but Turkey has also been challenged on some of these parameters in the past. I do not think that this is about whether to put pressure on Turkey, because today we are saying yes to giving 286 million. kr. I think that, of course, to those countries which do not comply with these basic rights, we must make the demands we make on each other, both for Turkey, but also for the other countries which do not meet them. We must do so, despite the fact that Turkey is an important player in relation to 2-3 million refugees, but we must also do so before these 286 million. kr., and we're gonna do it after. We must also do so if, one day, hopefully, we can sort out the conditions that make us have so many refugees. If we could now stop that influx, we still have to put pressure on Turkey. So when Enhedslisten says we have to put pressure on them against these 286 million. kr., I very much agree. We have to do that, and we should have done that five years ago, when we were not in this situation. We also have to do this in 10 years' time, whether or not this flood of refugees is resolved. Turkey is an important player qua location. Compared to these 3 billion. The euro will be asked if Turkey now makes a new demand for 2, 3, 4 months. It will be a new situation that we have to deal with. It is clear that if they do not meet any of the expectations we have of the money we are giving, it is a different situation, but if they do some of the tasks and can do even better to curb the influx of refugees, but also to make it better for the refugees who are staying in Turkey, then that is a new situation, and then we have to look at it at that time. However, since an agreement has been reached with the EU countries and the other countries have made their contribution in relation to the deadline that is now also, which is just a little short, we in the Radical Left do not think that the Enhedslisten's proposal is sympathetic because, of course, we must put pressure on the Turkish Government to live up to the commitment we have made and also make our contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122214	This proposal follows on from B 76, which we adopted yesterday, and I could, in fact, repeat my rapporteur's speech at first reading of it, where I indicated that we do not support the agreement made between the European Union and Turkey. We recognise that there is a problem that we must also take seriously, but we simply do not think it is right that, in the current situation, such an agreement should be reached with Erdogan, without making any demands on how the money is spent, on how human rights development is in Turkey, nor does it make any demands on Turkey's relationship with the war in Syria, which is, of course, a major cause of the flow of refugees, where Turkey has played a very counterproductive role throughout. In view of the fact that this is also to be financed by development aid, which is becoming increasingly hollow, we have been able to support B 76 and thus we also support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122337	Thank you. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122348	We Conservatives cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal to tighten the financial commitment of a majority of the people and the EU countries. It is not Turkey that gets the money. The money is earmarked for projects to benefit Syrian refugees and they need that money. They are earmarked for projects relating to housing, health, activation and jobs. It is important that we help in the neighbourhoods. It is also important that we prevent people having reason to flee further. That is why it is urgent to implement the agreement. It is also cheaper to help in the neighbourhood than when people run on. Yes, I must be the first to recognise that there are major human rights problems in Turkey: violation of human rights, minority rights, freedom of the press, etc. Erdogan is, in my opinion, a be one. He has destroyed the Turkish model and is acting more and more powerfully, almost like an absolute sultan who has his own interpretation of democratic freedoms. So, yes, there are problems, and I would like to admit that I would have liked the European Union to insist that human rights should be respected in order to reach such an agreement. I think that should have been done, but it has not been done, and I think that is a pity. At the same time, I would like to ask: what is the alternative? The alternative is not to get an agreement and then to take the over 2 million Syrian refugees hostage there. So this really is an ethical dilemma, and I understand a bit about the Enhedslisten's criticism of the agreement. I would really like to see a lot more of human rights being done, but in that situation the Turks had taken over from the agreement. However, I think it is extremely important to see that agreement implemented so that it benefits Syrian refugees, and then we must continue to insist that the Turks respect human and minority rights and respect freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122626	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122629	I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur for the positive comments on at least the intention of what is here. I believe that we also agree far along the way on what the European Union might have done. The question I have for the rapporteur is: how do we ensure that what the rapporteur hopes will be the result, namely that the money will benefit Syrian refugees in Turkey, will actually take place? So, I have been in the Committee on Budgetary Control in the European Parliament, where I have been involved in trying to look at what happened to what was known as pre-accession aid to Turkey, and I just have to say that it was also money that was earmarked for certain things and so on. etc., but when we looked at how they had been used, it appeared that they had been used purely politically to support a particular political party and a certain political attitude in Turkey. So my question to Mr. Naser Khader: How do we ensure this in the Danish Parliament and, of course, the Minister of Finance will have to reply at some point to the fact that the millions we contribute will actually benefit Syrian refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122737	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122738	It is also a question that I myself have been concerned with and which I actually asked at a meeting of the board. Now we must not refer to what happens at the board meetings, but I have been very concerned that we must be 100% sure that that money does not disappear, but goes directly to the Syrian refugees. And I understand that there is a mechanism through these projects that will ensure that the money will benefit Syrian refugees, and I have to trust that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122812	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122813	Allow me to understand the rapporteur's statement as an undertaking that, once a period of time has elapsed, we can ask for a study in the appropriate place, in the relevant committee, and get a statement on whether this has actually happened, so that we in the Danish Parliament can also get an evaluation of what has happened to Danish money. I know that such things are always being pushed down to the EU, into the big box, and then no one can really find out what happened to the 3 billion. EUR 6 billion EUR 9 billion or EUR 9 billion; euro. But it is also 286.1 million Danish kroner for which we have a responsibility. That is why I take it as a commitment that the rapporteur will also be involved in checking and demanding control of what that money has actually gone to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122859	I would like to say that it sounds like a lot of money, and so is it. But if, with that money, we can help reduce the flow of refugees, it is actually a good investment. We spend a lot of money on people who come here, 240,000 kroner. per asylum seekers per year, so it is a great deal of money that we save by providing that money in the EU pool. However, I believe that we must stand by the fact that not only Danish money but all the money that the European Union receives goes directly to Syrian refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122942	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330122954	The German Ambassador to Ankara has been summoned to stand for the Turkish authorities. Then why is he? It must indeed be something very serious when you call an ambassador to stand school. The reason is that German television has allowed itself to bring a 2-minute satirical music video, which during the chorus Erdovi, Erdovo, Erdogan criticises the Turkish President Erdogan for his many violations of human rights. This kind of thing is allowed to pass in Germany, but it had never happened in Turkey. It would never have happened in today's Turkey, where journalists and editors are dismissed, imprisoned, murdered, where media are not only closed, but also taken over by the state and where people are sent on the streets to pay tribute to the President. We call for the programme to be deleted. We call on the Turkish authorities to delete a satirical programme on Erdogan! In doing so, they demonstrate with all due clarity that today's Turkey is more like a hunger sentence from the past than a modern democracy. It's totally grotesque in the truth. You can laugh a little bit, 'cause nobody's gonna get hurt. On the other hand, a lot of refugees have been affected in Turkey. Amnesty has documented that Human Rights Watch has documented what is going on, and it is beatings, harassment, thefts, coercion to sign that they are not really refugees at all, and they are thrown back across the border to where they came from: Syria. And then we are not talking about all the refugees who have not managed to enter Turkey because they have closed the border, as we saw around Aleppo. It's not quite that funny, and you can't laugh about that quite so much. That is why it is relatively serious when, in this situation, we decide to allocate a quarter of a billion kroner to Turkey. So far, Denmark has not dreamed of sending refugees to Turkey. The Minister for Integration has given an exemplary answer today to a question we have asked. The same applies to most EU countries, if not all. According to the Minister's reply, nine countries have not yet replied. All other countries have said that they are not sending people to Turkey. What the nine countries are responding to, we will see, but it is the vast majority of EU countries that do not send out to Turkey. Nevertheless, the European Union has concluded a number of agreements with Turkey on the return of refugees, which only require Greece to recognise Turkey as a safe country of return. It's really politics when it's the worst politics when it's the worst. No country in the European Union will take responsibility for sending people back to Turkey, and then you force Greece, which is economically weak, to do so, put them on the task, and then you can make an agreement with Turkey to pour some money into it, in exchange for them to take back those who are coming. Why are we standing here? We are here because Act 73 is in the Financial Committee. That is not what we discussed yesterday, which we dealt with the refugee facility as a whole, but tomorrow, in the Committee on Finance, we will have to deal with a concrete piece of action. And we think that when we have to deal with a specific piece of legislation which then leads to the payment of this money, it is reasonable to impose conditions. I assume the Finance Committee usually does that when they pay out money. I could only imagine that the Financial Committee, when paying out money, has some conditions for the payment of the money, and that, of course, should also be provided here, and it should not just be for them to benefit those who have to receive it, but also for Turkey to keep its own promises. We had a discussion with Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party on the question of what we could demand from all sorts of countries. This is an exciting discussion, and I am happy to take part in it, and we shall have it at some point. However, this is about demanding that countries comply with some promises they have made themselves, some agreements they have made themselves. Turkey's have we have an agreement with Turkey. All we are proposing is that something should be added to that act, and it is not that the money should not be paid out, not that it should not be helped in the area, not all of that stuff. We are just adding one thing: we must also have Turkey comply with the agreements they have made themselves. Isn't that very elementary? What is the wisdom of making agreements with people who do not comply with the agreements they have previously made? What confidence can one have in the respect of the new agreements when the old agreements were not respected? Is it radical, is it almost revolutionary, to demand that people abide by the agreements that they themselves have put their name under and have said they would accede? It should be absolutely elementary. That is why we are actually surprised that there is not even greater support for this. We understand that this has something to do with our commitment to the European Union. That, again, is what is involved. However, our position is that we must demand that Turkey comply with the agreements that they themselves signed, otherwise, of course, we cannot trust new agreements either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123624	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123627	I have to understand from the rapporteur that what is important to the rapporteur is respect for certain agreements and that it is not really human rights. Because I understand that the rapporteur says that it is precisely the fact that Turkey has signed something in the Council of Europe that means that the Enhedslisten believes that this agreement cannot be concluded here. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it can really be true that the enthusiasm and enthusiasm of the Enhedslisten for human rights can be boiled down to the fact that it is only something that should apply to countries that have signed some papers in the Council of Europe. In fact, I thought that the Enhedslisten was a party that thought that human rights were something global, something that we should demand of all countries. However, the rapporteur may be able to explain to me whether this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123721	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123722	Yes, I can confirm that. Human rights are something to be demanded of all countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123729	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123732	Then I do not understand why it is that Enhedslisten puts exactly these conditions when it comes to Turkey, but does not put the same conditions when it comes to Denmark's development aid to all sorts of other countries. For then it should be the case that Turkey should fulfil human rights before we can pay this money, that all the countries with which Denmark has agreements on development aid must then also respect human rights. When are we watching Enhedslisten do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123756	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123757	There have been countless examples of this, for example. in relation to Egypt. I don't know if sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth remembers it, but there came the Enhedslisten with a proposal to stop aid to Egypt because of violations of human rights. There have been many examples of this. So it's a concrete assessment. But the starting point for this is to start by saying that you have some particular expectations of people you have made an agreement with. When you make deals with people, it's based on an expectation that people will abide by those agreements. You can also make agreements with people with whom you have no experience, it is clear, but then you can be disappointed, and then you can draw some lessons from it. But there is an expectation that Turkey will live up to its own agreements; they do not, and that is why we must, of course, make demands before we give them more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123844	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123846	Thank you. Let's go, sir. Søren Søndergaard does not believe that I am not going to vote with him, and I would therefore like to ask him whether the Enhedslisten has put forward this resolution in such a way as to show that someone has to have a clean hand or whether it is due to such sincere, profound hope and faith that we in Denmark would be able to significantly improve the human rights situation in Turkey by blocking these 286 million. kr., which we are about to send to the refugee camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123923	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330123924	With regard to the matter of being the only ones with clean hands, I would say that it is up to others to remove that claim quickly. Well, sir can. Jan E. Jørgensen will do with his vote tomorrow. Then we can completely get away from the situation where we and some others, among others. The alternative and SF stand with clean hands. To the question itself, I would like to say that this issue is an issue that is being discussed in all EU countries. There is not a single EU country where this discussion is not taking place. We then have some special rules on the Financial Committee. An amendment cannot be tabled in the Committee on Finance. If you have an amendment to the file, you have to table a motion for a resolution calling for the file to be withdrawn and for a new file to be drawn up and so on. It is such a special parliamentary Danish and that is why we are standing here. Otherwise we would simply have tabled an amendment in the Committee on Finance, of course. It's not our fault. These are the parliamentary rules in Denmark. If sir... Jan E. Jørgensen will contribute to the tabling of amendments and we will work to ensure that amendments can be tabled in the Committee on Finance for documents submitted by the government, that is fine, and we will be able to resolve it. But this discussion, the principle of it, is taking place in all European countries, and it is good that it is taking place in all European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124037	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124038	It may be that Mr. Søren Søndergaard must have a speaking time such as a Fidel Castro or others to arrive at a proper answer to my question. Because the question was whether the Enhedslisten really believed that we could get Turkey to fulfil human rights by not sending 286 million. kr. Let's go as part of this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124102	Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124103	The Enhedslisten takes the view that if pressure is put on Turkey and if you do not support the Turkish Government, the possibility that there will be a very rapid change in Turkey will be good. Whether this is on the basis of a resolution tomorrow, I would like to question it, but it is part of a process. When elections were held in Turkey in November, it was the case that the European Union had produced a very, very critical report on Turkey. Then the EU leadership went in and detained the critical report on Turkey until Erdogan had been elected until Erdogan had been elected! It's a scandal. In this way, there will be no democracy and no human rights in Turkey. In this way, authoritarian regimes are supported. We have to do exactly the opposite, and this proposal is an expression of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124156	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124158	Thank you. So, I think that everyone here in the Parliamentary Chamber can at least say this with a great deal of certainty for my own party. Søren Søndergaard's concern about the human rights situation in Turkey; Mr. Søren Søndergaard's concern about how Erdogan's rule develops. That is why I would also like to say thank you for the fact that Mr. Søren Søndergaard shared with us the story of the German ambassador, who had been called for discussion. For the parallel to it was back during the Muhammad crisis, where a number of different ambassadors had even had to move from the countries in which they were ambassadors, because the different regimes perceived that they had violated and done something that was highly critical. In parallel to that, Denmark would then have to say that it withdrew aid to individual countries, that it would not be involved in financing, for example. the refugee camps that were in Iraq at that time; that would correspond to refugee camps for Syrian refugees. What is my point is that I basically do not understand it. Enhedslisten is a party that has been demanding pan-European solutions for months. The Enhedslisten is a party which has been calling for months for us to solve the problems in the neighbourhood (the President must keep to the speaking time!) and when it comes to delivering some money that we agreed on in November, you will not be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124313	Thank you! Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124315	But that is a beard view of it: because we are calling for pan-European solutions, we must be in favour of any European solution. We don't. In other words, we fully recognise that there are European solutions, including pan-European solutions, which we do not support, and this is one of them. So may I not say to the rapporteur that I think it is very good that the rapporteur shares the criticism of human rights violations in Turkey. When will the Social Democrats come up with a proposal on what concrete proposals are being made for Denmark to do to help support the forces that are fighting for democracy and human rights in Turkey? When's the proposal coming? I look forward very much to it, and I look forward to discussing it constructively with the rapporteur and with the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124404	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124406	Firstly, the Social Democratic Party was included in the joint motion for a resolution on Turkey following the recent debate on questions in this Chamber. Secondly, I would like to say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that what is at the heart of this is that there are 2.7 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. The situation in Turkey is not perfect. However, the European Union has a common obligation to both try to help Turkey cope with the effort they are spending around 8 billion. dollars a year dealing with, but also trying to help the people who are down there. What's the alternative to helping them with this refugee facility?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124447	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124448	If we spent 3 billion. The euro, which may be 6 billion euros. To rebuild the areas of Syria liberated from the Islamic State, hundreds of thousands of refugees would return from Turkey and neither burden Turkey nor try to move on to Europe. That is a concrete alternative. You can't spend the money twice. If we have to choose, we will always choose to rebuild the liberated areas rather than channel them into the Turkish regime. May I just say: yes, a resolution is fine, but the prerequisite for a resolution to take effect is, of course, that one is willing to follow up with action. I look forward to the social democracy initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330124534	Thank you. No one else has asked questions. No one has asked for the floor at all, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. Then the meeting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 1 p.m., where the next item is the answer to questions forwarded to the ministers, and that is oral Question Time. The meeting is suspended until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130011	The sitting is resumed. The first question has been put to the Minister for Finance by Mr Gundelach. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130036	Thank you. I have to read out: What does the Minister think about an increase of 48% between 2014 and 2015. the number of State travels with the airline Ryanair, and will the Minister do anything to reduce the use of Ryanair in the State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130054	Let me begin, for the record, by stating that we have no binding agreement in the state for the purchase of flights. However, for the purchase of travel agency services which may include the need for a flight, the State institutions are obliged to use the State's provider of travel agency services, Carlson Wagonlit Travel. The self-serving institutions can choose whether or not to use this travel agency agreement. In addition to the travel agency agreement, the state institutions have the opportunity to sign up for the state and municipalities' purchasing services, the so-called SKI, and their flight agreement. Moreover, Ryanair is not a supplier of this agreement. The figures on the consumption of air tickets by the State, which are reported to the Finance Committee and which are referred to in this parliamentary question, therefore cover only the purchase of air tickets through the travel agency agreement and there may be an unknown quantity of purchases of air tickets outside the agreement, as can be seen from the reply to the Finance Committee. In 2015, the State and the self-owned institutions bought 770 tickets from Ryanair via the travel agency agreement, which represents an increase of 48 per cent. in relation to 2014. It is therefore correct, as the questioner indicates, that there has been an increase from 520 to 770 tickets from Ryanair. It is also important to note that, although there has been an increase from 2014, the number of flights purchased from Ryanair through the State Travel Agency Agreement represents only a very limited part of the state consumption of flights registered through the Travel Agency Agreement. Specifically, this is less than 1%. It is important to mention that the State's provider of travel agency services is obliged to comply with customers' travel policy and apply SKI's flight agreement if the customer has signed up to it. Both the travel agency agreement and the SKI flight agreement require compliance with a number of UN principles and ILO conventions. These requirements also apply to employees employed outside Denmark. Both SKI's flight agreement and the travel agency agreement require employees employed in Denmark to have salary and working conditions equivalent to the applicable agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130326	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130327	Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance for this answer. I think it is reassuring to hear about the SKI agreement, which ensures that conditions are fixed. It is a very good principle that you know that when you buy travels through the SKI agreement, working conditions are under control, and then there is no social wage dumping and anything else that can be involved if it is Ryanair that is being used. Nevertheless, even if it is a small proportion of Ryanair flights, it is a growing figure. And now that we know what problems there are with Ryanair as an airline in relation to the way they treat their employees, I think that is worrying. When we hear that one is paid incredibly low compared to what is like the standard in Denmark, that is to say with wages, where it can be incredibly difficult to get the ends to reach together as a family, if one is employed there; that one is required to have the cost of purchasing uniform himself; that one is fired if one joins a union and other; indeed, it is contrary to normal conditions in Denmark and, moreover, also contrary to the ILO conventions that prevail when we speak SKI trips. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister for Finance, if not, as far as this small proportion, which is travel agency purchases, one should have a set of rules so that the state does not support companies which then systematically try to undermine Danish pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130510	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130513	I'm not going to give up on that. Rasmus Prehn says about the conditions of employment is right and that they are far below the standard of how we treat people in this country. However, when the State buys services not covered by the SKI travel agreement and the State travel agency agreement, they are obliged to comply with the ILO Convention on the Use of Work Clauses in Public Contracts. However, work clauses requiring wage and working conditions similar to the Danish agreements cannot be applied on routes outside Denmark, i.e. when the airline is based abroad. Within this framework, it is the individual ministerial areas that choose the provider of air travel, and it is they who are responsible for the economy and for the task they carry out, who decide which flights they purchase. I think that is a sensible approach. I also believe that as long as companies operate in Denmark on legal terms, the state should not start, for example. To make a boycott. At the same time, we must ensure that the state uses the tax dollars as best it can and organises the work most appropriately in relation to the task carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130629	For the sake of good order, I should like to point out that during Question Time the questioner and the Minister have two minutes in the first place and then 1⁄2 minutes for questions and answers. We should see if we can keep to that. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130643	Thank you, President, for outlining the rules of the game. I'll try to make it short and within 30 seconds. I am pleased that the Minister admits that it is working and wage conditions that are far below those of Ryanair. I am also very pleased that there are the rules of the game that apply in SKI. However, the question arises as to whether, if you buy travels in addition to that, it is a small proportion that you could not have a declaration of intent that you should deal with the same principles that apply in SKI. That would give some kind of logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130715	There I think we are in touch with something in principle, because there are many who deliver goods to Denmark, where the goods are produced far below Danish standard. Indeed, one can almost afford to say that for most people, one cannot exceed the Danish standard. That is why I think we need to stick to the principle that we cannot boycott companies operating abroad and operating in this country on legal terms. That would be a slippery slope, because where would we set the line?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130754	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130756	I admit that it can be difficult to contain it from that point of view. There is no doubt about that. However, this is an airline which everyone knows about and which has obvious problems with the way in which they treat their employees; the way in which they pay; the way in which they dismiss people whose employees join a union. I think it would be reasonable for there to be a declaration of intent that when purchasing, the same principles should be taken into account if you buy through the SKI agreement. Could one not have some kind of declaration of intent to deal with this when you also buy flights where it is as obvious as it is in the case of Ryanair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130831	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130832	[Sound emission]. I think you have to keep your path clean in these cases. What about T-shirts produced in Bangladesh? What about bedding produced in countries where working conditions are miserable and in many cases dangerous? I think that we would have a very, very difficult task in the state, in the municipalities, in the regions and here in the Danish Parliament if we were to sit and make lists of all Danish requirements. What matters is whether the company operates legally here. And the case of Ryanair is, of course, well-tested. Ryanair is not based in this country. Ryanair flies to and from Denmark. And that is not where we can interfere with the conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130925	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, and thank him. Rasmus Prehn. The next question has been put to the Minister for Education and Research by Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. There's a co-questioner on it, and that's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130941	Thank you. The question is as follows: What is the Minister's position on the University College Sjællands (UCSJ) application to establish an engineering education in connection with the industrial symbiosis in Kalundborg, in relation to the government's desire to create growth throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130956	Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330130957	Thank you very much for the question. I would like to emphasise that the government attaches great importance to improving conditions for growth and employment throughout the country. It is therefore also crucial that higher education institutions are able to deliver the graduates needed by companies. As the author points out, there is a specific application from University College Sjælland. The application is still under examination and, in accordance with the procedure we have for applications for new training, which has been adopted here in the Danish Parliament, I will not anticipate my specific decision until the matter is on my table. However, I can inform you that an application for the provision of a diploma engineering course must be dealt with in accordance with the general rules for the approval of new courses and invitations to tender. This implies a so-called pre-qualification, which is an assessment of the socio-economic and educational policy relevance of the educational provision applied for, for example. whether there is a need for the education sought in Danish society, which cannot be sufficiently achieved by existing education. In addition, the provision of a diploma engineering training must be based on a solid engineering environment, regardless of which institution is responsible for the supply. I can also inform you that as a follow-up to the government's growth initiative in November 2015, my ministry is working on a number of analyses and initiatives to support attractive education and more skilled labour throughout Denmark. For example: the way in which parts of higher education can be carried out at places other than at the geographical point of supply, such as: in the form of pedagogic education and e-learning services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131156	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131157	Thank you very much. I note that the Minister attaches great importance to the socio-economic aspect of the matter, and that is, in fact, one of the things that is at the heart of this issue. Now, in respect of a case-by-case procedure, I understand, we have to wait for the final decision, but nevertheless it is the case that there are two really great, good business success stories in the last 10-15 years in Denmark. The one we know is in Esbjerg, and the other is in Kalundborg. After all, these are the two places where the number of private jobs has grown most, where the most new export jobs have been created, permanent jobs have been created. So when the Minister points out the socio-economic element, how does the Minister feel about Novo Nordisk, which is Denmark's most valuable company, having pointed out in connection with their recent investment of 13 billion? kr. that one could not expand more in the Kalundborg area simply because it was not possible to get the skilled labour that one needed, that is to say that one had to place investment elsewhere than in Denmark, because one did not have the opportunity in the Kalundborg area to get the necessary manpower, which was therefore mainly made up of engineers? Does the Minister consider it socially appropriate not to increase the number of qualified staff to Novo Nordisk's plant in Kalundborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131331	The specific answer to the last question is of course: no, I do not think so. I want Novo Nordisk to place as many jobs in Denmark as possible, just like other private companies. However, what is at issue here, and what the original question I was asked about, is a position on a specific application which is currently under consideration in the setup we have adopted here in the Folketing, before we can approve a new offer of training. And I want to respect that. I fully understand that the questioner is again trying to beat up the Minister a position, despite the fact that there is, of course, a process and a procedure which I must respect for good reasons. Having said that, however, I understand very well what the questioner is asking, namely how to assess the socio-economic aspects in this context. And, of course, it is clear that we will endeavour to have as many private jobs in Denmark as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131434	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131436	Thank you. I would say that I am not actually trying to exonerate the Minister in this context. This is a very sincere and honest question, which is • given that the Minister himself is talking about the socio-economic • if not ensuring highly trained labour throughout the country is absolutely crucial for our economy. If we are talking about the socio-economic aspects, is there anything in the Minister's optics that speaks against putting an engineering training offer in Kalundborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131507	Regardless of how the questioner turns the question, I am not going to deal specifically with an application under consideration in my system today. Of course, we need to take socio-economic considerations into account, and we need to pave the way for as many private jobs as possible throughout Denmark, but then there is also an educational policy that needs to be taken into account, namely that we must ensure that the training which we then also provide and receive is of good quality, and that means that there is an educational background for providing training where we do so. This is something that I believe we are obliged to take into account, not least for the sake of the people who choose the courses in question, because no one wants to have education that does not have the quality that we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131607	Thank you. Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131612	Thank you. I recognise the Minister's argument that one cannot, of course, relate to an application that is under way and that, of course, this should be dealt with through the formal procedures, so I would like to ask about the more general issue. We have five regions in the country and four of them have one or more engineering programmes. The only region where you cannot take an engineering course is Region Sjælland, despite the fact that we have a huge growth dynamo in Kalundborg, which helps make not only Kalundborg and West Zealand, but all of Denmark richer. If we are to be allowed to grow more, we need to create a better infrastructure. After all, it is about roads and all sorts of other things, we can take that another day, but it is also about education. They need to have the manpower they need. That is the statement that comes together from the business community and from politicians across all parties in the West Zealand. Is that not a need that the Minister can see is real enough and can the Minister somehow respond to that request?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131724	I fully agree that the prerequisite for maintaining and, hopefully, attracting and creating new jobs also in the field of growth is that we have qualified labour made available. However, it is the case that we in the Danish Parliament have decided that there should be, what can be said, a thorough examination of whether there is a need in the place in question and whether it is socio-economicly linked, and that is precisely what some people are assessing at the moment. But I fully agree that the prerequisite for being able to have such jobs, which is also the case for Kalundborg, is that of course you have the skilled labour that is needed in order to maintain and develop a company such as the one we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131817	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131818	Now it is not a secret that I am a social democrat and elected in Kalundborg, but there are also really strong and significant Leftmen who mean this. Both the mayor of Kalundborg, but also the Regional Council President of the Great Region of Zealand, are committed to this. Region Sjælland has granted 8 million. kr. For this project, Kalundborg Municipality is also willing to grant something, and the local Business Council is pushing everything they can. All that is missing is that the button is pressed, and then we can get out there, and then we can all get richer. So without having to deal with the specific application, it must also support the government's ambition to create growth throughout Denmark and create growth at all, so that Denmark can simply become richer and stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131906	I would like to stress that I do not consider this to be a party political issue. This is a relevant and concrete question which I have been asked here in the Folketing. There are some procedural rules and procedures which, for good reasons, I naturally have to respect. Having said that, I agree with both the questioner and the questioner that the prerequisite for us to attract and maintain good jobs in Denmark is, of course, that we have qualified labour available, and that is what I am, among other things. has the political responsibility to ensure. There I am concerned to ensure that we have qualified labour available throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131947	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330131948	Thank you. I took note of a comment made by the Minister on an earlier question about the quality of teaching. Now we are talking about it on a fundamental level and not on a specific level. Does the Minister consider that the quality of teaching per person employed in the field of education is very high? definition is, in principle, inferior in smaller cities such as: Kalundborg, or as well as elsewhere, you can maintain a good quality of education if you like. Is there cooperation with large international companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132024	There may be no doubt about this, and I think the questioner does not doubt that the volume has some influence on the possibilities of organizing the teaching, and it can also be reflected in quality or possibly lack of it. So, somewhere, of course, it is important to have a sustainable environment before there can be any approval at all. At any rate, I do not want to help give approval to an education where I do not believe there is a sustainable level of quality. I do not think that serves anyone at all. Whether it applies to Kalundborg or not, and to the application that is there, I simply have no opportunity at all to take any position on today, as the matter is going through the system and it would be unspeakable for me here today to pre-discount what one might achieve in the work that one is in full swing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132127	Thank you. That was the end of Question 2. The next question, Question 3, is addressed to the Minister for Education and Research. The same is true of Mr. Kaare Dybvad, and there's an enquirer, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, and both questioners are Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132144	Thank you. What challenges does the Minister see in the establishment of an engineering education in Kalundborg, and how does the Minister estimate that these challenges can be solved by the State, regional and local authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132156-2	Thank you very much for the question here too, since it affects a little the same field. However, the provision of a diploma-engineering course must primarily be based on a solid engineering environment, regardless of which institution is responsible for the supply. An engineering environment means building a high level of engineering research and development knowledge, as well as knowledge of engineering practice, which can adequately support the provision of training. Today we have strong engineering degree programmes in Jutland, on Funen and on Zealand. As mentioned in my earlier answer to question 841, there is a specific application from University College Zealand for the establishment of an engineering training programme in Kalundborg which is being studied. At the same time, I am aware that many good forces in the Kalundborg area have taken an active part in the work of preparing a project to support the concrete need to provide enough skilled labour in the area. The network counts among other things. Kalundborg Municipality, Region Sjælland, Novo Nordisk as well as a number of higher education institutions. The Ministry of Education and Research is also following the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132310	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132311	Thank you. After all, I have been encouraged a few times that we cannot go into the matter in detail, but I would still like to ask, on a matter of principle, a quote from the Minister's predecessor in the post, the current Minister for the Environment and Food, Esben Lunde Larsen. He said in Jyllands-Posten back in August: "We need a larger regional offer of higher education. There I will look very positively on applications to set up new education and, as long as quality is not compromised, I am not worried about small team sizes in the first few years until a new training is started. It is not a concrete quote about a specific education in Kalundborg, but it is nevertheless relevant to this issue here. Does the Minister agree with the interpretation of his predecessors, in other words, that applications for new training will be looked at very positively?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132412	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132417	Well, that was a good answer, I'm glad. I would actually like to ask one question that the Minister had before. I had thought it would take longer, but I just wanted to ask: now we discussed before the value of cooperation, the value of quality in education. Does the Minister believe that it represents a value in itself that one has collaborated with Denmark's largest pharmaceutical company, one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies, on the establishment of a training offer, i.e. the fact that a company simply says that it consumes up to 75%. of the candidates who come from this education here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132458	In any case, I think that close cooperation between buyers and providers is appropriate, that is, between society and the people we are educating, and that, in fact, I want there to be even closer interaction than what we know today. I want there to be a stronger match between education and jobs, and that is why it is very relevant to involve some of the large companies in Denmark too, but that alone does not, of course. Of course, the training obligations for which I am responsible cover wider than the needs of individual specific companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132542	Thank you. Then it's as an enquirer, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132548	Thank you for the positive statements so far, although of course they have not been so concrete. It seems that we are on the line, at least in relation to the objective. The lack of highly trained labour is one of the serious bottlenecks, not only for some of these important production companies in Kalundborg, but also for companies in many other parts of the country. We are therefore in a situation where Denmark is simply going to lose money and will miss out on some important jobs if we do not support this need. These could also have been other examples we took forward, but now it is Kalundborg that we have as a case case and as an example here, because here there are some large companies that are exactly crying out for skilled labour. There will probably be barriers; there will always be barriers when you make politics and when you act. There will also be when the government has to relocate jobs. There are some barriers and there will also be some of the barriers that will be difficult and that must be addressed. But how do we break down these barriers, and how can the government help solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132701	So, I have to say to both the co-questioner and also the questioner that one could almost get the impression that there is no supply of engineering courses in Denmark and that Kalundborg is therefore like lost. That's not the point. In other words, there is the possibility of being trained as an engineer, and there is also a geographical spread covering the whole country. I agree that there is a particular challenge in Kalundborg for a large company, which is large-scale, but it is not the case that there is no training for skilled workers who would be attracted to Kalundborg if that were the case. But I am fully in favour of strengthening an area, a region in terms of economic policy, by providing training. In the very first question, among other things, was: Esbjerg mentioned it is a city that I know very well, and it has just been seen that there has been a close interaction between local, regional and educational establishments. This has actually seen that the range of training courses has been able to be strengthened over the years. So I am fully aware of the situation in Kalundborg, and I am also fully aware of the value that education offers can bring to a local area, a region which, among other things, is being developed. has seen it in Esbjerg and Southwest Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132830	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132832	It is not by chance, of course, that Kalundborg is mentioned here, because, as the Minister says, most regions have precisely engineering training programmes. The only region that does not have it is Region Sjælland, and what Region Sjælland is asking for is to get an engineering education and get it in Kalundborg. And it is not just because of a large company that the region has the largest concentration on Sjælland after the metropolitan area. So it's not just because of a company, and it's not because it's a pity for us in Kalundborg. It can just make us all a lot richer if we together have supported the growth that is there. So the municipality is pushing, the region is pushing, and business is helping everything it can. If only the government would help a little too, everything will work out. So that's basically just what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132925	But then we are a little back where we started, in other words, in a desire for a concrete position on a specific application, and the questioners are not getting that position from me today, because I want to respect the procedural rules that we have agreed on here in the Folketing when we have to approve the provision of training so I am sorry. It will not be today that a position will be taken on the specific application by me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132951	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330132953	I would have liked the Minister so much in the last round, but now the Minister said that candidates and engineers can be taken to Kalundborg. It is indeed the case that you cannot do so, and that is not because Novo Nordisk is an unattractive company. It is actually chosen for the most attractive company in the country to work on, but yet you can't get people to travel these 110 km from Lyngby, where DTU is located, and then to Kalundborg. It is not just a problem for Kalundborg, it is a problem for Denmark. However, my question is whether the Minister believes in principle that there is a problem with the provision of education by a university college rather than by a real university.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133040	I am sorry to hear that the questioner in this way emphasises that you cannot actually attract engineers to Novo Nordisk in Kalundborg. For what makes the questioner imagine that you can have students So I'm a little sorry if that's the way around we're going to discuss it. But then the questioner again asks the question of a concrete position on a university college application. I know that it was asked as a question of principle without reference to University College Sjælland, but nevertheless that is the matter. University College Sjælland has applied, and I do not want to deal with that here in Question Time. But it is just that because you have an educational obligation towards a region, you are not obliged to provide all courses there is no real coherence. However, I would like to stress that I have not taken a position on the specific application. And it has nothing to do with the fact that it comes from a university college and not from a university; it has something to do with the fact that there is a process that I want to respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133159	Thank you. That was the end of Question 3. We thank the Minister for Education and Research, and thank Mr. Kaare Dybvad and Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Question 4 has been asked to the Minister for Transport and Building by Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133223	Thank you very much, President. And I have to read the question out loud: how does the Minister view the analysis from the Capital Region, which shows that in 10 years' time the problem of congestion in Greater Copenhagen will be twice as large as today and will cost society 4 billion? kr. in terms of productivity lost per year, and what is the Minister's attitude to the report's recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133245	Minister of Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133248	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I am, of course, glad that Mr. Rasmus Prehn agrees with the government that the increasing congestion is a key challenge for our transport system today. Now it is also something that I know the previous government, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn's party was a member of, of course, when they set up a tribulation commission, and the Tribulation Commission also made some recommendations. I know that some of the things that were worked on a lot were taxes. This was not the case, but something else which was also recommended was the need to make sure that some road construction projects were carried out and these road projects could help. It is also well known that this is one of the ways in which it can be remedied. We've been able to see that too. It must also be said that a number of motorway projects were launched already then, V together with K last sat in government, both on Frederikssundsfingeren and on Helsingørmotorvejen and Ring 4 and on Køge Bugt Motorvejen. So, of course, this is the way to go. Then the Commission says something about organisation, and I understand that precisely the organisation of public transport is something that is emphasised in the recommendations of the Capital Region's report. It is worth noting here that the tribulation commission set up by the previous government did not, of course, attribute a significant impact to the organisation of public transport on the development of congestion. The primary instruments that were pointed out were more cash, as I have mentioned here. So I would warn against imagining with the region's report in hand that there are smarter snapshots that can just solve it. I don't believe that. Then I myself have started, and we have not seen the effects of this yet, because it only gets under way from the summer, the harmonisation of the tariff system. Unfortunately, this should have happened a long time ago, but now it is coming, and I am sure that it will certainly be some of the things that will be better, because now you can better orient yourself around in public traffic. So let's see what that means.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133453	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133454	Thank you to the Minister for his reply, and also thank you for coming around every corner, including the tariff system. I also have great respect for the work done by the Minister in relation to the tariff system. There is no doubt that it was absolutely necessary to deal with it, because it has been completely opaque, and many have wondered that it costs one price in one way and then a higher price in the other way and everything else. Having said that, I find it hard to see that it should be one of those things that could help a great deal in relation to this tribulation problem, because this problem is really extensive. It is a very long time for people to keep in line because there is no proper infrastructure. And isn't it so problematic that the government, in large measure, has stopped many of the infrastructure projects that could help lift this? I am also thinking of strengthening public transport, where the proper operation of trains could ensure that even more people would choose to take public transport than to drive a car. What are the plans for the port tunnel, which I understand the government has written into their government base to be looked at? For it could also be some of the things that could lead some tribulation around the heart of the city. So let us get a status on the more concrete initiatives. And then I would like to hear: since there is actually a specific recommendation, it may well be that it is not what solves everything in relation to the fact that everything that has to do with transport in the metropolitan area needs to be better coordinated, was it not a place to start? If there is no money for infrastructure projects, could it not at least start with the organisation of it? If the Minister even highlights the tariff system as one of the steps in the right direction, it must be possible to win even more by organising it better, even if it does not solve the whole problem, then let me have the Minister's comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133651	In relation to the organisation, I am going to be the questioner's answer guilty, because it was something the previous government did that was called DOT. And I just have to say that before I really start to get it right, I thought it should work so that we can see how it unfolds, but I'm worried about it. In relation to the port tunnel, I can just say that things are going well. I have both had a meeting with that property company over there, we have also approached the City of Copenhagen. We'll see, there's got to be someone else than us, so let's see if you're willing to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133731	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133732	Thank you for the Minister's patience in relation to the work that was done with the organisation, where some coordination is proposed. But what is the recommendation in this way is to go a little more drastically and perhaps be inspired by what is known from London, where there is transport for London, where everything is organized across the board. And I know that the rapporteur on transport from the Left, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, has talked about the way they organize it in Munich, so it is perhaps some quite other and more violent buns that we need to have on the soup in order to organize it differently. Then I will be curious about the port tunnel, because it sounds like the minister is really working. Is the Minister prepared to give us a date when it can be expected that there will be a port tunnel in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133815	No, the last thing about most people would probably be unwise. You're gonna have to make sure you get those people on board first, who're gonna help you make it happen. In relation to DOT, I would just like to say that this was one of the first things I asked about when I sat down as Minister for Transport, so why didn't you use DOT to spread it out more so that more drastic action had been taken? As far as I can see, it was the longest that could be achieved in the previous government. I'll take sir. Rasmus Prehn's announcement today, like that now the Social Democrats are ready to go further, and I think we will have a good talk about that, because that is also my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133851	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133852	I'm glad. This is an example of how it is worthwhile to raise questions here during Question Time. Because I would like to come to a meeting and have a talk with the Minister about whether there are further steps we can take to coordinate all the efforts we make in the area of transport in the metropolitan area. We in the Socialist Group are very concerned about the way in which they organise it in London with London for Transport, and also the model they have in Munich, so we are happy to take an initiative on that. And then I think we should also have a talk about the port tunnel, because it is also the case that we Social Democrats would rather help to find a solution and help on the way. So I expect an invitation to a meeting soon with the Minister on the two points.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330133939-2	I think that's a really good idea too. I myself have also started work, and perhaps we should do so in relation to: are there some things you can do to get traffic spread better in the metropolitan area? There are, of course, some elements that we can discuss with each other, but I do not think we can avoid wondering whether we could spread it over a few hours, because we are aware that it is gathering a lot at certain times when it is really difficult to come forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134007	Thank you to the Minister for Transport, and thank you to Mr. Rasmus Prehn. The next question has been put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is what Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134020	Thank you. The question is: Does the government intend to carry out further tightenings, for example in the form of reinforced border controls with the aim of limiting the influx to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134031	As you know, the government has been tightening up the rules on foreigners since we came in, and fortunately also with the Danish People's Party as strong support. The government has implemented austerity measures to ensure that our rules on foreigners are adapted to the current refugee situation, because we need to take care of Denmark. Indeed, we should not take so many refugees that it will threaten our cohesion or our economy. And, of course, the number of asylum seekers also has an impact on the challenges that we will face in terms of integration efforts. The austerity measures implemented by the government have therefore been designed to make it significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark. Asylum figures can vary quite a lot from day to day and from week to week, from month to month, and that is what we are seeing at the moment. Currently, the number of asylum seekers on a daily and weekly basis is somewhat lower than we, for example. Then in October and November last year, and that is good, because we must be able to keep up. But a fall in the influx may of course be due to several things. Bad weather in the Mediterranean region may postpone the refugees' desire to take the chance in a boat over water, bad weather in Europe may postpone the refugees' desire to go to a little more distant destinations, as Denmark in this respect is, and the fall in the influx may be due to tightening up, including in our neighbouring countries, but it may also be due to border controls at the EU's external border, for example. The Balkans, just as it may be because of our own border controls with Germany, which has been in force since 4 January. So let me stress that the entry rate in Denmark remains high, I think, in relation to what is desirable, but at this stage I do not think there is any need for further tightening.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134255	Thank you. It is a little difficult to understand, considering that the Left was, in a sense, going to the polls on an immediate slowing down. The possibility of achieving such immediate braking is, in fact, passé. But now we have gone a long way and, as the Minister rightly says, we have adopted austerity, good, sensible austerity, which I also think has had an effect, compared to seeing that fewer asylum seekers are actually coming to Denmark. But now that we in the Danish People's Party have the view that the number remains too high, and now that I can hear that the Minister has the view that the number remains too high, the most logical thing is to tackle the work of further tightening with the aim of reducing the number. So I simply do not understand why the Minister says that there is no need for further tightening. Now there is a process and some discussion going on in relation to mosques and to imams, and it is gratifying that it is good. I hope that something positive will come out of this in the form of further tightening in the area of foreigners, but what is causing the problems is the Muslim immigration we have had to Denmark. That is why we would like to see tightening up with the aim of limiting the influx to Denmark. And why is it that the Minister does not want to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134358	If we had meant by the government that further austerity would have to be carried out right there around Christmas time, when we carried out the austerity measures, it would have been taken in that course. As I said, I do not think that at the moment. are restrictions to be applied in relation to asylum seekers. As far as immediate braking is concerned, it is absolutely correct, but we also need to look at what it looks like in other European countries. If we look at Germany, there is a 100-percent increase in 2015 in the number of asylum seekers. If we look at Sweden, they also experienced a 100-percent increase in relation to the number of asylum seekers, and in Denmark we saw a 40-percent increase in the number of asylum seekers. Of course, that is a lot, but it is somewhat less than in the countries around us. And I think that is very much what we have done together with the Danish People's Party, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134505	But the question remains: if the Minister thinks that there are too many, why not further tighten up? So I simply lack the argument in order not to want to impose further austerity. Then again we have the discussion about imams and mosques, and there are also some proposals from the Danish People's Party which are about limiting the flow, because that is what creates the problems that we have • that is what creates parallel societies etc. But can the Minister not give a clear answer as to why, on the one hand, if you think that there are too many, and on the other hand, you will not apply any further austerity measures. That doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134543	Because I mean, we're at the moment. has tightened what needs to be tightened up in the area of foreigners. This does not mean that in the long term we will not be able to carry out any more austerity, and now we are doing exactly in the area of imams and hate preachers. We'll have the mosques watched now. And I actually think that's about time. I very much welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party is also making a whole swarm of proposals. I would also be very disappointed if the Danish People's Party did not make a swarm of proposals, but so do you, and I look at that very openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134625	It is excellent that the government welcomes some of the proposals that the Danish People's Party has made, and I understand that other parties do too. So that's quite fine. But again I lack a clear answer to the question, because it does not make much sense for me to say that there are too many, but we do not need more austerity to limit the flow. Then the Minister will say that it may be that in the long term there will be more austerity. I am now also convinced that there will be more austerity, because that is simply a necessity. But what is the time horizon that the government is working on? How many more asylum seekers must come before the government comes to the conclusion that, of course, there is a need for more austerity? It is obviously right to impose further restrictions on asylum policy, for example, in relation to being able to reject people at the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134709	I can guarantee that I will follow developments very closely. I promise I'll do that day by day. But it must also be the case that we see the effects of the austerity that we have carried out. And let me just remind you that it was around Christmas time that we implemented the very large package of tightening up in the area of foreigners, especially with regard to asylum seekers and asylum seekers here in Denmark. So we have to let it work first and then we follow developments very closely. I can guarantee that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134747	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. The next question is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134756	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134759	Thank you. What does the Minister think about the fairness of crossing the border from Germany to Denmark and applying here for asylum as persecuted, in other words, does the Minister consider Germany to be an unsafe country to stay in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330134813	The Dublin Regulation lays down rules on which EU country is responsible for examining an application for asylum. The aim of the Dublin rules is to ensure that an application for asylum lodged in the EU can be dealt with in one country. Under the Dublin rules, the first country into which an alien enters illegally, or the country in which he or she first seeks asylum, will be responsible as a starting point for examining his or her asylum application. Although Germany must of course be regarded as a safe country to reside in, including for asylum seekers, it would not be in accordance with the Dublin Regulation to reject asylum seekers on the border with Germany. On the other hand, if an asylum seeker enters from Germany and applies for asylum here, it must be assessed whether he or she can be transferred to another Dublin country in accordance with the rules of the Dublin Regulation or whether he or she should have his or her application for asylum examined here in Denmark. I would like to make it clear that it is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the asylum system in Denmark that Dublin cooperation works in accordance with the intention. In this context, it is essential that there be registration, fingerprinting and the return of economic migrants at the EU's external borders. This reduces the number of refugees and migrants in Europe and ensures that there are no advantages in moving around Europe, that is, what could be called asylum shopping. We must stick to the Dublin rules and insist that all Member States fully respect these rules. When asylum seekers and migrants are not registered at the external borders, it is not just a Danish problem. It is a problem for the whole of Europe, and it is a problem to which we must find a common solution. As you know, on 18 March, the European Union and Turkey concluded an agreement on the readmission of the new irregular migrants coming to Greek islands from Turkey, as from 20 March. Hopefully, the agreement will help to control the external borders and stem the influx to Europe that we see, and will also help us to have fewer asylum seekers for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135047	That was a rather complicated answer. I hear the Minister say that the Minister considers Germany to be a safe country, and I also hear the Minister say that the Dublin rules are not respected. So I have to ask: what will be done to get Germany to respect the Dublin rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135110	What it's all about in its simplicity is where you put your prints. And it's clear that if you've left your prints, for example... In Germany as the first country, you will be able to return, but if that is not the case, you cannot return. This is how simple the rules are, and you have to respect these rules. Otherwise, in Denmark we would also find ourselves in a situation where refugees and migrants could be sent to Denmark, which did not really belong here at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135143	I'm having a little trouble finding the red thread. So, migrants end up in Denmark because they are neither registered nor asylum-treated in the first receiving country. Then the Minister says that, despite the fact that the Dublin rules are not respected south of the border, we still have to respect the Dublin rules at the Danish border. Is that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135210	That depends on where your fingerprints have been left, in which country asylum is to be dealt with. It's as simple as that. That is why it is also important to control the external borders. Until the external borders are sorted out, no agreement can be reached to ensure that, hopefully, fewer asylum seekers will arrive in Denmark. Some of them are refugees, some of them migrants, and those who are migrants must be sent back as soon as possible. One has come to Europe to create oneself a better life, and that is where we can understand the individual in this matter, but it is just not with the right to protection, and that is why we must be sent back. And we need to respect the Dublin Regulation. If we do not do this, this will collapse, and frankly I believe that the Danish People's Party will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135300	Yes, but I hear the Minister say that Denmark must respect the Dublin rules, even if Germany does not. And then I ask: what will the Minister do to get Germany to respect the Dublin rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135315	Germany respects the Dublin rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135323	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen first question. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen has another question for the same minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135332	Thank you. And we are moving a little in the same ball street as a few seconds ago: what is the Minister's position that migrants cross the border with Denmark from Germany without having been registered in several safe Western countries, but instead seek asylum in Denmark as persecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135346	A great many refugees and migrants have in recent years crossed Europe's external borders. It has put the whole EU system under extraordinary pressure. As I mentioned in response to the previous question, we have common European rules, i.e. the so-called Dublin rules, which determine which EU country is responsible for examining an asylum application. Those rules must, of course, be followed. Under the Dublin rules, an EU country is obliged to register foreigners in the Eurodac Common Register in two situations: (1) if an alien travels illegally into a country above the external border, or (2) if an alien seeks asylum in the country. The first EU country into which an alien has entered illegally is responsible for examining the application for asylum as a starting point. This means that a foreigner previously registered in another EU country must be returned to that country. If it is not possible to establish that another EU country is responsible for examining the asylum case, the country where the application for asylum is lodged shall itself examine the application. We need the European Union to work together to find a common solution to the refugee and migrant crisis, so that there is no advantage in just moving around Europe and so that the number of refugees and migrants to Europe can fall. It is important that all Member States fully respect all common ground rules. We must basically stick to the Dublin rules and insist that all EU countries respect the same rules. This means effective control at the EU's external borders, and it also means that Member States should not allow transit through Europe, and that is also why the EU has recently concluded an agreement with Turkey with the aim of curbing the influx of refugees and migrants into Europe. The government, of course, is following the situation in Greece closely and, of course, is also taking part in the further work on making the agreement actually work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135601	Now we are back to the question from before. But let us now imagine the situation that the Minister stands 1 m within the Danish border and looks into Germany and sees a migrant coming along, who wants to cross the Danish border. Does the Minister not find it paradoxical that two or three European countries have neglected their obligations under the Dublin rules, but that as soon as a migrant reaches Danish soil, Denmark is obliged to follow the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135632	But all countries are obliged to follow the Dublin rules. That is precisely what I have said, in other words, that all countries are obliged to comply with the Dublin rules. I don't know if sir. Claus Kvist Hansen remembers just a few months back • then there was also a big discussion between Denmark and Sweden, because we could see that there were many who traveled through Denmark to Sweden because they did not want to seek asylum in Denmark but wanted to travel to Sweden instead. So this is a phenomenon that I think many people know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135707	The questioner. The questioner has to wait until the lamp lights up red, because otherwise we won't get the whole thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135716	I'm sorry. Does the Minister still not see a paradox in the fact that other countries do not comply, let me put it this way, the Dublin rules, while Denmark, as soon as a migrant as in the situation mentioned above stands at the Danish border, must follow and apply the very same Dublin rules that others have not complied with or followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135738	I must simply admit that in September and October I did not hear Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen said that Denmark had to stop all the refugees and migrants who traveled into Denmark to have their fingerprints taken to comply with the Dublin rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135752	But shouldn't those fingerprints have been taken in Greece, Germany, Austria if the rules had been followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135759-2	Of course they should, and that is why I say that it is absolutely essential that we make this work at European level. But I just didn't hear the demand from Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen in September and October that we should stop all refugees and migrants and get their fingerprints taken. I may have overheard that signal, but I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135819	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen for the question and thank the Minister for the answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, which is for the Minister of Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135835	The questioner now has access to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135839	Thank you. How does the Minister react to the issues described in the article "The Sheriff shoots loose gunpowder: Officers are removed from the nightlife" from the Ekstra Bladet on 15 March 2016, where on the basis of a letter from a shop steward to the police director in Copenhagen it is described that patrols to enforce the new knife law are being cut into a virtually non-existent size?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330135906	Large bills have been made on Danish police since the terrorist attack in February in Copenhagen and the introduction of temporary border controls. It is clear that when people are to be used for border control and guarding, the other tasks of the police are affected. It can't be any different. But in the autumn, the government, together with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, including the party of the questioner, entered into a historic police agreement that adds almost 2 billion to the Danish police. kr. in the years to come. As we all know, only the police force is there. We cannot quickly conjure up new officers, they must be trained, and the tasks must be handed over to others first. That work is in full swing, but it will take time. The Knife Act, when it will hopefully be adopted later in this session, will in fact result in a total ban on knives in the nightlife. Therefore, the law will make it easier for the police to crack down on people carrying knives on, for example. discotheques and taverns. So it's sort of a relief for the police. It will be an important instrument in the work the police are doing here, regardless of the fact that, unfortunately, the police are under pressure for a time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140022	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am, of course, concerned about the fact that we are making legislation which is really sensible. At least it is my impression that we are doing something that is really positive, but then we do not have the opportunity to follow it up, simply because there are no officers to take care of the tasks that are because the police force is worn out. Our police are historically under pressure. That is why, of course, I am also curious to hear something about the speed with which the government believes it can strengthen Danish police. I fully agree that we have made a multi-year agreement, which in many ways is a strong agreement that equips the Danish police for the challenges of the future, but I am of course interested to hear whether we can increase speed, whether we can speed up the train more quickly to ensure that we can quickly get the officers whom we need the officers who need to make sure that we can be safe in society in general, but also in the nightlife.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140116	I can assure the honourable Member that I am doing everything in my power to speed up, on top of the agreements we have entered into, the speed we have agreed, with which we can re-prioritize tasks and tasks. But I would stick the questioner in the eye if I said that the fact that we have taken 1,200 years' work out of the Danish police to guard and control the border had no impact on the rest of the police's duties. That would simply be wrong. That is why, unfortunately, during a transitional period, we will see that there will be priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140157	As far as we are concerned, this is not a question of either or: either you have border controls, or you have police in Denmark. After all, it is a matter of boats and boats, as we want the package as a whole. We want both control of our borders and security in Denmark. We really think that's worth taking care of. That leads me to the next one. When we started negotiating the new multi-annual agreement, we had as our goal to train 2,000 extra officers over the next 10 years so that the police could be strengthened massively. In the light of the articles here and the pressure on the police, has the government intended to respond to that request for 2,000 extra officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140238	I am fully aware that the wish of the Danish People's Party is a both-and-so. It is just difficult to accommodate the fact that if a police officer is standing at the border, he is also in Copenhagen. It simply cannot be done physically. What we have agreed so far is a strong injection of new police, newly trained police. Fortunately, the search for the police school in December set a record. Compared with the 2 000, which has been the objective of the Danish People's Party all along, we made a good deal of progress during the negotiations. Then there will also be a new debate on the Finance Act next year, as far as I remember, on whether the number we have reached is sufficient. But that does not solve the problem here and now, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen refers to, for example. The problem of the Copenhagen Police has been forced to say that the efforts of road traffic control and the efforts of hashish have had to be reduced due to a number of other tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140337	It is quite true that the cop who has to do a job in Copenhagen, for example. Make sure to keep order in the nightlife, of course, cannot also stand at Padborg, Kruså or any other border crossing for that matter and carry out border controls. That is also why it is not a question of either or that of us, but that it is a question of boats and boats, and that is also why we have indicated that, if we are going to achieve this task, we must train 2 000 extra officers over the coming years. It is true that, with the multiannual agreement, we are proposing to train 300 extra officers over the next two years. It is a small step on the way over the first two years, I recognise that, but we are not in the end. Wouldn't the Minister acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140417	When Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen says 300 extra, is it on top of those we have already trained. So it is, of course, a considerable reinforcement of the Danish police we see here, because at the same time we ensure a sense of responsibility, where we, for example, have a responsibility. is well on the way to pulling the policemen out of the ATK cars, where we are considering issues surrounding the operation of the emergency services and where we are considering the involvement of private people to carry out certain tasks. So I sort of understood the Danish People's Party, when we made an agreement, that one was really satisfied. It is the greatest strengthening of Danish police in modern times. If we can get even further when we reach the financial law negotiations, we will have to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140459	Thank you. Then we move on to Question 9, which is also for the Minister of Justice and Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140507	Thank you. What does the Minister think about a police commissioner in North Jutland saying that they do not want to publish surveillance images of trick thieves, as this gives the police more work for which there are no resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140519	I have just answered a written committee question from the questioner about the very same statement and, as is apparent from that answer, the North Jutland Police find it regrettable that a police officer has indicated that the police circle does not include in the investigation surveillance images and the possibility of publication of the pictures in question. I agree with that regret, as can be seen from the answer. The North Jutland Police Department has also stressed that the police circle always in the investigation of e.g. shop and trick thefts are interested in receiving surveillance images that may have an impact on the investigation. Of course, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140558	There has been a great deal of focus on this particular problem of the media in North Jutland, among others. NORDJYSK Stiftstidende and TV 2/Nord. It is of course the impression, when you see the reports, that this is a general problem and not just a single citizen who has been subjected to something inappropriate and has been rejected by the police. What will the Minister's comment be on the many people who have felt badly treated because they have not used surveillance images of people who have emptied shops, private companies, something that has taken people many years to build, for investigation purposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140637	Firstly, I would like to say that anyone who has been the victim of a crime in Denmark has my full sympathy and what I can do about it, I do. But I also have to say at the same time that North Jutland's policy has quite clearly indicated that you would like to receive surveillance images and also use them in the investigation, to the extent that it is useful. So that is the closest I can answer the questioner's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140707	Nothing further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140714	Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice and thank him. Peter Kofod Poulsen. We move on to Question 10 to the Minister for Energy and Climate Affairs, and the question has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Jens Joel, who now has the opportunity to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140727	Thank you. The question is all its simplicity: Does the Minister want to reopen the energy settlement from 2012?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140737	Thank you for the question. In the winter of 2014, the Left, together with the other bourgeois parties, put pressure on the then SR government to renegotiate and cheapen the energy settlement. The cost of PSP was well above the level agreed by us in 2012. Thanks to our joint efforts, a growth package was created in the summer of 2014, when the PSO expenditure was relieved by 13.2 billion. kr. Towards 2020. In this way, the energy conciliation was renegotiated and cheapened as we wanted it to be. Now, the PSO costs again seem to exceed the expectations that we had when the energy settlement was concluded in 2012. By 2020 alone, the PRS tax will be approx. 16 billion kr. higher than expected when the energy settlement was concluded. As a government, we have to respond to this. It's the only thing responsible to do. At the same time, a long-term solution must be found to the PSO tax by the end of this year, and we therefore have a huge bill to pick up. It is a common bill for which a very broad majority of parties in the Folketing have a responsibility. So I'm going to have an open-minded talk with the parties of the Folketing about how they think we should solve this great challenge. The parties were responsible in 2014, when we reopened and cheapened the energy settlement to lower the PSO tax with the growth package in 2014. In the paper to the growth package, the SR government itself wrote that increasing PSO will increase Danish production and constitute an obstacle to growth, especially in industry and manufacturing industries. That is why I was pleased that they were responsible and took responsibility for bringing the PSO costs down, and I hope that they will now be as responsible in opposition as they were in government. I should like to conclude by pointing out that the government is, of course, following current practices in the field of conciliation, if the government considers that in selected areas there may be a need to look at parts of the existing energy reconciliation, and I will therefore discuss it with the energy reconciliation circle and with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330140956	Thank you. It was hardly a very clear answer, but nevertheless some expressions of what the Minister meant. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party are willing to discuss a long-term PSO solution, discussing some of the charges that stand in the way of both the green transition and the business community. On several occasions, as the Minister has already mentioned, while we were in government, we have given a hand to some of the companies in competition, and we would, of course, like to do so again. However, it remains to be seen that when the Minister goes out into the media, before we have even sat on the table and talked about it, and says that we are considering reopening the energy settlement, there are a number of companies that have invested even more millions of dollars in getting almost to the finish line that are responding. If we say that we can agree to discuss how to set the charges better and then park it, then my question to the Minister is: is the Minister going to put up with that I have actually tried to get an answer to that, also in the media and on Twitter, which is so modern, and now I am trying here in the Parliament hall to postpone or cancel offshore wind turbine projects? It might be interesting to hear that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141111	I would like to say that first of all I would like to thank the questioner for his willingness to find a solution, both in relation to the PSO and in relation to the very current challenge we are facing, where it was expected that the PRS tax would have been 4 billion. kr., but now on the other side of 8 billion. kr. this year alone, and by 2020 there is an increase of 16 billion. kr. I therefore wish and hope that we can have an open-minded conversation, for example. whether there is anything in the energy conciliation that we can regulate in, whether there are costs, we can link up in a different way, and whether there is anything we can do at all. That is why it is all too early now to decide whether or not something needs to be done in a different way. I would actually like to sit down, together with the rapporteur, and discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141159	The problem is that if you go out in the media and say that everything is perhaps uncertain, you are also creating a great deal of uncertainty about some of the investments that are in the green area and the many jobs that are tied up in that sector. We would really like to have a dialogue on how to make a long-term PSO solution. After all, as the Minister has already mentioned, we have a deadline approaching. But we cannot just say that now there is uncertainty about the whole, and then we see what kind of things it is. That is why I have to ask again: could the Minister imagine that offshore wind turbine projects, which will soon have a bidding time, will be cancelled or postponed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141240	It would have been quite irresponsible of me as a minister if I had not responded to the very, very large increase in the PRS tax. I also hope that we can agree to take the joint responsibility of having a look at whether there are opportunities and political will to reduce the bill. That is all too soon to start discussing individual elements of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141305	However, I also think it seems a little risky, if not irresponsible, for the Minister not to refuse to cancel or postpone wind turbine projects, which have a bidding deadline in a few months' time, in a situation where companies have invested in confidence that broad energy policy agreements can be expected. In this way, industry has a need for safety at all ends and edges, and that is also why it is noted that the business community wants tax changes and that we are helping and abolishing some of the taxes that stand in the way of the green transition and the business world, but they do not really want a reopening of the energy settlement. So can we not just get the Minister to say that the content of the energy conciliation, for example, as far as offshore wind farms are concerned, is not being changed in such a short time before implementation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141359	I think it is very important that we take responsibility for things. There has been a tradition here in the Folketing of broad energy reconciliation for more than 40 years. The questioner's party and my party have been a core of those agreements. In fact, I think and also hope that, as we see that some of the basis for the agreement we made in 2012, we are moving strongly, that we can agree to sit around a table and discuss it here and find a common solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141427	We thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats. And then we move on to Question No. 11. This is for the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and the question has been asked by Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141445	I will read the question here in the first round: How does the Minister relate to what is stated in the DR articles on 11 March 2016 with the headlines "The Older Case: Shocking and Unworthy Treatment of Older People" and "After ten years of home helping: Now Bodil is too fresh to get help, and the Minister finds it voting with the principle that help should be provided according to a concrete and individual assessment of the need if municipalities lower the level of service for home help, so only for example. Demented, blind and crippled can get help?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141520	Thank you for that and thank you to the author for the question. As you know, the municipalities have a legislative responsibility to offer the necessary help and care to older citizens who can no longer take care of themselves. It is the case that the individual citizen, regardless of diagnosis or disability, is entitled to a concrete and individual assessment of the need for help, and therefore it is not legal per person. Automatically just to say that then only blind, demented and crippled citizens can get help. Having said that, we also have local government autonomy in Denmark, which means that it is the municipalities that determine the level of service. Thus, a municipal council may decide to reduce aid to citizens. Here, however, I would like to stress once again that the municipalities must not only reduce aid to everyone, but must, in every situation, make a concrete assessment of the individual's specific and individual needs. As far as government policy is concerned, we are very concerned that older citizens, whether living in a care centre or still living at home in their own homes, must have a decent care and care so that they can continue to live the life they want with the greatest possible quality of life and with the greatest possible self-determination. Therefore, in the context of the 2016 Finance Act, we also agreed with the questioner's own party, the Danish People's Party, and with the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, on a unified model to ensure more dignity in our care for the elderly. As you know, we have together set aside 1 billion. kr. more dignity each year, and at the same time we have now jointly legislated for municipalities to develop dignity policies in the future. There, for example, municipalities can choose to use their share of the dignity billionaire, if that is what you are aiming to use, for example, for more practical help, if that is what you have to decide in the individual municipal council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141733	Thank you for that answer. I am very pleased that it is stated that it is not legal if it is the practice of the municipalities. I would actually like to start by saying that the starting point for the question is not that I believe that the Minister or the Folketing should deal with individual cases, but it can of course form a picture of some places where practice may have gone a little wrong in the municipalities said with respect for the existence of self-government. Because here it's all about Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality, who has sent a letter to a recipient of practical help that you can lose your help in the future if you are not demented, blind or largely paralyzed throughout your body. It is just that I find it unfair that the municipality should say to a citizen who has been receiving help in this particular case for over 10 years that it would deprive the citizen of that help. I would just like to know whether the Minister can reflect on whether or not the municipalities should be informed that they should not have that practice. I actually hear the Minister say that it is not legal because there must be an individual assessment of whether you need help and that the municipality cannot simply say that if you are not demented or lame, you cannot get help. So will the Minister take the initiative to inform the municipalities that they must not have the practice that they simply say that there is one diagnosis that counts and if you do not have it, can you not get help?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141846	Thank you. I am pleased that the questioner also agrees that I cannot go into specific cases described in articles and therefore I cannot decide on the needs of individual specific citizens on the basis of newspaper articles. I would like to repeat that, as I said, it is not legal per year. To say as a municipality that only blind and crippled citizens can be helped. At the same time, however, I have also stressed that it is the individual municipal council which decides the level of service in the individual municipality on the basis of the principle that the citizen must, of course, have the help that the citizen needs. Therefore, it is also the responsibility of the municipalities to provide the necessary help and care to older citizens who can no longer take care of themselves, and I have the expectation that all the municipalities in the country will make a concrete and individual assessment of the needs of the citizens for help, and this also applies, of course, to the City of Ringkøbing-Skern.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141946	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330141947	I therefore agree that it should be the case that an individual assessment is carried out. In this case, however, we can see that there is a municipality which does not do so and which has sent letters to the citizens that if you are not blind, lame or demented, you cannot get help. That means, for example, that if you want to do something about it, it means that if you want to do something about it, you have to do something about it. is severe arthritis or has a sunken spine or other things, yes, then you don't get help. It seems that there may be a need for a decision to be taken when a municipality has, as a general practice, to send out letters about it and not just send a letter to one citizen. The municipality then says in the article that it has been done for economic reasons alone. I would just like to ask the Minister if he can do so as a municipality, because that is not my impression. It is precisely in Article 83 of the Services Act that an individual assessment must be made as to whether a citizen needs help. That need has then been assessed in this case as having been for 10 years, but you now choose to say that it is no longer there and that you do so for economic reasons. Can the municipalities, for purely economic reasons, completely cut the aid away when we can now say with the Service Act in the back pocket that the citizen has been entitled to it for many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142052	It is already there that the municipalities give priority to and organise their efforts within the framework of the legislation. This also means that a municipal council with a political majority behind it may decide to reduce the level of service and thus help to citizens, and this also applies in cases where, for example, a citizen has received assistance for several years. What the municipalities cannot do is simply to do so without making a concrete assessment of the needs of the individual citizen. These are the demands we make in the legislation, and I naturally expect them to be met in Ringkøbing-Skjern-Kommune as well. That is also why, in my reply, I have stressed that it is not legal just per year. Automatically can say that citizens, because they alone in the eyes of the goose are blind, can no longer get help. On the other hand, I have noted that among other things. The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in the relevant municipality, to which the questioner refers, has also said that this is an unfortunate wording, but that the requirements of the law are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142203	Once again, thank you for at least stating that it is not legal not to make the individual assessment in such cases, and that one cannot just cut everyone off and say that if they do not have a particular diagnosis, they cannot be helped. It is quite true that there is this municipal autonomy where it is up to the municipality to lay down the service level, but when there is a very specific case where a municipality of one comb has chosen to override section 83 of the Service Act, then I think that perhaps there might be a need for the Minister or the Ministry to send a request to the municipality concerned or to KL, where one gets it refreshed and says that it does not work if what is stated in the articles is right, that the citizen should be demented, blind or lame for help, but that there should be this very precise assessment of what the individual needs are. Because I am very much in agreement with the Minister on how this is purely legislative, and I am actually happy with the answer I get, but there is obviously a municipality which obviously does not deal with it in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142259	A municipality cannot and must not override the Service Act. This applies to all 98 municipalities in the country, and that is why I expect all the municipalities in the country to make a concrete and individual assessment of the needs of the citizens for help, and this also applies, of course, in Ringkøbing-Skjern-Kommune. Is it the same as that I think that care for the elderly in Denmark cannot be improved? No, and that's one of them. also why, in the government and in cooperation with the author's own party, Dansk Folkeparti, as part of the Finance Act, we agreed to allocate an extra billion kroner annually to more dignity in the care of the elderly. At the same time, we also have the mutual confidence that we know locally best where the shoe is pressed, and thus where the extra money that we now get to create more dignity in our care for the elderly should be put into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142354	I would like to thank the Minister for Health and the Elderly, and thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr; that is Question No. 12, and this is for the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142400	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142406	Does the Minister agree that it is extremely unfortunate that the lack of agreement on the requirement of fairness prevents social economic undertakings, such as the United Kingdom, from doing so? The Rosebed in Brande can hire more early retirement workers in spare jobs and that they will soon have to terminate those who are already employed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142429	Thank you for the question. As I indicated in the consultation on social economic enterprises on 3 February this year, I have asked the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency to call the social partners to find a solution for the expiry of the experimental clause, which has allowed derogations from the reasonable requirement for early retirement workers in wage subsidies jobs in all companies. I can tell you that three meetings have been held between the parties and that intensive work is being done to find a model that everyone can support. I hope and trust that the parties will agree to put an end to a common solution that is sensible. And, as I have already said to the SF employment rapporteur, I would be in favour of following the recommendation. I would like to stress that an overall solution is presented which will allow the social economy companies the necessary time and opportunity to adjust to the future conditions for the recruitment of early retirement workers in wage subsidies jobs before the end of the experiment. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the previous government also set up a working group to look at a system of relaxation of the reasonableness requirement to ensure that any change in the rules would not lead to the displacement of ordinary employees and would not distort competition. I agree that it is important to take these risks into account. I believe that it is essential to have a dialogue with the social partners when it comes to these issues. It is part of the Danish model. I therefore believe that we should first allow the parties to discuss this issue and, as I said, I can tell you, we are working hard to find a comprehensive solution that will allow social economy companies time and the opportunity to adjust to the future conditions for the recruitment of early retirement workers in wage subsidies jobs. Against this background, I have a clear belief that the social partners will very soon come up with a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142648	I know that the Minister has said to TV MIDTVEST that the Minister believes that it would be sensible for the Rosenbedet in Brande to survive, and part of the foundation of the social economy is precisely that early retirement workers can be used in wage subsidies jobs in the company. At the same time, it is also a company which is not in direct competition with others, because it is not ordinary jobs. That is why I would like to ask the Minister something. At present, a derogation is granted for one year at a time to the Rosenbed. Would it be possible to envisage in the discussion with the parties on the requirement of fairness the possibility of granting a general exemption as long as the company operates under social economic conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142741	First of all, I would like to reiterate, as I said earlier in the consultation, that I believe that the work carried out in the social economy is very valuable for the people employed there. Here they are practical early retirementists. It helps to give them a daily life, it helps to provide them with a basis, and I have no doubt that it will also help to reduce the other social support for them. I hope that a solution can be found with the social partners, which also provides a time perspective which is long-lasting or, if I may say so, lasting for me. What is crucial here is that the concerns about distortions of competition and about the displacement of ordinary workers are handled in such a way that there is co-play by the social partners in terms of the models that exist. That is why I am now waiting, and I hope that there will be an attitude very soon, and I will follow it, and then we will see what the concrete approach is. Personally, however, I do not believe that there is any obstacle to finding permanent solutions if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142901	I'm really glad. I visited the Rosebed in Brande in February. By walking around the company I experienced people who are employed for perhaps 4 hours a day, some 2 or 3 hours a day, while being early retirement, and that gives their lives some value because they feel they are doing good. It is not only the case that society as such also gets something back from the early retirementists. It is also about that if you have worked for 30 years on the Danish labour market, then you are used to working. It's an important part of your identity. So if you can maintain it and somehow still have a daily life where working becomes part of the identity, then it's important for these people. That's why I'm a little concerned about this. That is why I am also concerned that we are not just saying that the parties must now work. We can do that for a certain period of time, but what time perspective are we talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330142956	Very short time. I am quite convinced that a solution will be found in this area, so that there will be no more disadvantages than those we have already seen. After all, the disadvantages we have seen are the drawbacks of the fact that this year no new recruitment has been possible because of the expiry of the previous experimental system. Because of differences between the parties, it expired. The debate which this has given rise to has brought the parties back together on my own initiative. I am quite confident that there will be a common position from the parties and that in a very short time we will have solved the challenges we are talking about here. I fully share the view of the value of the work being done in the social economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143050	I believe that what strikes me at least is the uncertainty that the early retirementists are now facing in the Rosenbed. When I left, there were several of them who said: Make sure we can stay here, because if I just sit at home in my apartment and look into my four walls, then I don't have much quality in my life. I have a fervent plea to the Minister to press for the work to be done quickly and, at the same time, to ensure that it is not, of course, a general extension of the requirement of fairness, but we must ensure that we can do so in socio-economic companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143133	I would like to promise that action will be taken on the basis of the attitude I expect to receive very soon from the social partners in such a way that there will be no delays in my own system. Unfortunately, there has been uncertainty about new recruitments. I am fully aware that if decisions are not taken in a very short space of time, there will also be uncertainty for employees already. We cannot be familiar with that. I believe that a decision can be taken very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143205	Thank you. That was the end of Question 12. The next question has been put to the Minister for Employment, and it has also been asked by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143215	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143217	Would it not be appropriate if it were to be a permanent scheme that, in general terms, the socio-economic undertakings with the aim of employing early-retirers and others were to be exempted from the requirement of reasonableness, possibly after a specific assessment of whether they fulfil those objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143232	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143233	I would like to start by stating that I believe that social economic enterprises can have a clear and significant impact in our support for people who have complex challenges and who are outside or on the edge of the labour market. At the same time, I would like to point out that the objective of the requirement of fairness is to avoid the displacement of ordinary jobs and distortions of competition and to ensure that work in wage subsidies jobs and business practices takes place in a framework that is as close to ordinary jobs as possible. It was precisely in order to ensure, as I mentioned in my previous reply, that any change in the rules governing the reasonable requirement would not lead to the displacement of ordinary employees and would not distort competition, that the previous government set up a working group to look at a system of relaxation of the reasonable requirement. I share the view of the previous government that this is an area in which we must find a solution together with the social partners. Their support is of great importance if it is to be a real solution for the ability of early retirement workers to be linked to the labour market. For the sake of dialogue between the parties, I do not think it is appropriate at this stage to take stock of the discussions between them, but I can say so much that these three meetings have been held and that an intense effort is now being made to find a solution. I expect them to make a sensible overall recommendation very soon, and in that case I will be in favour of following this recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143408	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143410	This question is very much in line with the previous question, and so is the Minister's answer. In fact, allow me to say that the Minister has said in his overall reply that in a very short time the parties will come to a solution or a solution and that the Minister would like to look at whether there can be a derogation for a longer period and not just for a shorter period, if that is what the parties are going to achieve, and that it should in fact be a continuation of the derogation from the reasonableness requirement for socio-economic enterprises. I will allow myself to conclude on the basis of what the Minister says, and I only hope that the parties will be able to achieve that within a short period of time. Because it's about real people who've gotten terribly caught just because they're worn out. They really want to work. When you visit the Rosenbed in Brande, you will note one thing that is different this year compared to previous years, and that is that they have previously had cash benefits recipients in work tests. They don't have that anymore. And they asked me the very clear question: is it really the law that prevents us from having cash benefits recipients on the job test? is it because of the new cash benefits reform? or is it because the municipality has strict rules? And I am well aware that it is below that of others in the question, but I hope that the Minister can clarify that it is probably more about municipal practice than it is about legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143536	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143537	When it comes to the committee's work now on socio-economic enterprises, it is a committee work which looks at the reasonableness of the employment of early retirement workers. I think it is very crucial that a solution is found to this. When it comes to the requirement of fairness in relation to other types of benefit recipients, it is also something that is discussed with the parties on various occasions, most recently in the context of the ongoing trialogue negotiations. But I do not exaggerate if I say that it is far more complex than other beneficiaries than it is in relation to early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143626	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143627	I'll take note of that. I believe that what is important is that we think all the options in terms of people getting back to work. One of the most important things for people's identity is to work, and when you ask most people, they really want to work. It's not like they think: Hooray, I can lie at home on my couch. They really want to contribute to the community, and it's part of the community to be in work. That is why I was curious to hear what the Minister would say in relation to the recipients of cash benefits. They have previously been on work tests until 1 January this year, and now they cannot get into work tests in the Rosenbed, which I think is a pity. Because when you look at the statistics, it's one of the things that leads to ordinary work afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143714	There is no doubt that the thinking developed in recent years, about the value for people who are ill or who have gone outside the labour market, by being able to be part of the working community, is a fundamental view that we share completely. I think it is extremely valuable both for early retirement and for other beneficiaries. However, the dilemmas in relation to ordinary employees are different from those in relation to the reasonableness requirement depending on whether they are people who have such a weak working capacity as people who have been granted early retirement or whether they are the more complex group we are talking about when we are talking about cash benefits recipients or other beneficiaries of benefits. Here I have the impression that the assessment by the employees' organisations of the framework for the requirement of fairness differs from the framework which they will be able to accept in relation to early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143825	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143827	If I may conclude a little on our debate, I have to say that I have a little uncertainty about the possibilities for cash aid recipients and about the message I can give back to the Rosenbegged about it. But I also think that some of the things are possible within the municipality's framework in this area today. The second part then concerns early retirement, and I am much more confident about that. It is also a good thing that the Minister on TV 2 Mid-West has already promised that one will look at whether one could create a derogation for the Rosenbed. I almost hear that said, although the Minister is kind enough to say that he is awaiting the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143902	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143904	I can only say in the affirmative that this reflects my assessment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143911	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. That was the end of Question 13. The next question is Question 14, and it is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Christian Juhl. And for the record, I should like to say that this is the last question in Question Time before we proceed to the first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143920	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143931	Thank you. I read out the question: is it good governance, in the Minister's view, that the Minister's date has not yet answered question No. 70 and 72 of the Committee on Employment? They shall be submitted on 31 August 2015 and 28 September 2015. And what is the reason why the Minister has not yet been able to answer those questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143954	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330143955	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by regretting that the Employment Committee has not yet received final answers to BEU Question No. 70 and 72, as is asked. It is, of course, crucial for the work of the Danish Parliament that the ministries provide answers to the questions asked by the committees very quickly and in good time. The two questions are part of a total of 11 questions which were asked about asbestos on 31 August last year as a follow-up to a consultation on the same subject. Five of the questions were finally answered on 28 September, while the remaining questions were provisionally answered. And on November 10, last year, final answers were sent to four further questions. As far as the last two questions are concerned, I have been informed that there have been misunderstandings in the dialogue between the Ministry of Employment and the other two ministries which should contribute to the answers and that these misunderstandings have only been discovered late. It is a mistake and, of course, it is not satisfactory. I have been informed that the final replies are expected to be sent to the Employment Committee in the first half of April this year. I would like to conclude by saying that it is very important for me as Minister that I reply to the Danish Parliament on time, and I would like to add that 99 per cent. The answer to the general part of the questions which I gave from 5 October to 31 December last year was timely, with 3% of them being answered. of the replies preliminary. And in the previous period was 100 percent. of the replies I gave from 3 July to 5 October 2015, replied in a timely manner, of which 12% were received. of the replies preliminary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144158	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144200	Thank you. The Minister says that there is a misunderstanding between the ministries. Could the Minister reveal what misunderstandings this is? Is it not the case with the current government that it is a teamwork where you talk at ministerial meetings and try to coordinate things? And if the Minister for Employment does not get a reply from another minister, it will probably be moved, for the sole reason that we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have moved forward for answers to the two questions along the way in the new year. This should probably lead to a misunderstanding being discovered not only because there was a move, but also because the Ministry has a proper procedure in relation to other ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144245	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144247	Regardless of the fact that we are a team that plays well and professionally together, regrettable errors can occur like the one that has arisen here, and it is not acceptable that this type of error should occur where so much time goes by without there being an answer to a question from the Folketing. That is why I have, of course, also looked at the question here about whether the control mechanisms for picking up missing replies or missing feedback are as they should be. I have now made sure that in future they are as they should be, so that there will be a reaction to the Folketing. It may well be that the question is such that the answer will take a very long time before the final answer can be given, because you have to go down to different levels of government in different ministries. But it is not okay for months to pass without the Folketing hearing anything, and I have now ensured that this will not happen for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144357	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144358	As far as one question is concerned, seven months have really gone by and six months and three days for the other. It is quite unsatisfactory to work on parliamentary matters of such an important nature as, for example: asbestos, which is dangerous, and then not get answers. I did not hear what misunderstandings there had been between the ministries. Had they just been in a pile of dust, or what had happened? I would also like to remind the Minister that we have just voted today on a derogation where it was the government that needed to dispense with the rules. So if it is to be reciprocity between the Folketing and the government, then we have to have things like this in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144440	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144441	I would like to confirm that. They need to be in place. There is nothing but system failure that is behind the failure to respond here, and I have taken that into account for the future. In concrete terms, it has been uncertainty about an initiative commitment in coordination between different agencies and ministries, because an issue like this involves several ministries and involves several agencies in the same and different ministries. But we must be able to deal with that and we will be in the future. I regret that the time has elapsed in relation to the replies in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144524	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144525	Since there have been two different ministries, as far as I can see, the error must lie with the Minister for Employment or the Ministry, and that is where it is not understood that we should move forward in time. I'm glad that's what's gonna happen in the future. I want to hear from the Minister if we couldn't make a deal when we're talking. We could take a small meeting to see if none of the contents could be a really good conclusion to such a bad case as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144559	First of all, there's no doubt that the responsibility is mine. I admit that, and I regret the mistake that has been made. When it comes to content, I am, of course, prepared to look at it independently of this error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144613	Thank you to the Minister for Employment, and thank you, Mr President. Christian Juhl. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144620	The debate is open. The first is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144640	Thank you. The draft law here is, in fact, a very good proposal, and it is no wonder, because it is a proposal that we made ourselves when we were in government. We value animal welfare and we believe that Denmark should be a pioneer in this area. That is why we also think it is reasonable that the penalty for cruelty and the neglect of animals should be raised, especially when it happens repeatedly. It is quite serious when animals are subjected to serious, reckless treatment or abuse, and this should reflect both the amount of fines and the duration of prison sentences. So here a doubling of the current level is sensible, just as we support the fact that there is a difference in whether it is done in private or in a business context, where one can also have an economic benefit from neglecting one's animals. Similarly, we in the Social Democratic Party are pleased that the 2012 veterinary conciliation is being followed up, where we agreed to look at the possibility of increasing the use of injunctions and also to allow for bans precisely to ensure that animal welfare rules are respected and that we also improve prevention. But when we talk about prevention, we are surprised that the Minister has only chosen to go half the way in relation to the work that the Left inherited from our reign. The point is that the Minister in the bill does not want to tighten up the possibility of denying the right to have animals. We really think it is very reasonable that you should not have anything to do with animals again, even if you have paid your fine or served your prison sentence if you have abused your animals. We therefore believe that it will have a preventive effect and that is quite relevant. So here we are very much in agreement with both the protection of animals and the Animal Ethnic Council, which takes it forward in their consultation answer, and that is actually one of the things we would like to continue working on in committee. So basically, we want the government to take a great deal of care in this area to set a high standard of animal welfare. In recent days it has also been suggested that there has been a very large increase in the number of animal transports over 8 hours. This reduces animal welfare, and that is very worrying. So, although we know that this bill should not be lifted, but in the European Union, it obviously requires a government and a minister who is on his toes, who does not sit back and who continues to work where we left off, namely by pressing for better standards in the European Union. In these words, we look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144907	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330144930	If you have abused an animal, there must be cash settlement by cashier one. So far, it has been the case that the punishment for animal cruelty has not been matched at all by the crime committed. This bill proposes a revision of the Animal Protection Act to tighten up the penalties for offences in cases of cruelty, cruel and reckless treatment of animals and in cases of repeated reckless treatment of animals. This applies both in private and in business. This will mean almost doubling the penalty, whether it is a prison sentence or a fine, and we in the Danish People's Party are very happy about that. Another important thing in this bill is the possibility of an extended application of injunctions and the possibility of using bans. As far as injunctions are concerned, this means that if you detect an offence, you can give an order to the person responsible for animal husbandry and not just to the owner. This has been the case so far, and if the owner wasn't to find, it's just too bad. Then you had to wait until you found him. Nowadays, all you can do is order the person responsible, because there's always going to be someone who's gonna be in charge of this kind of animal husbandry. So it means a great deal that you can give the injunction immediately and that you should not wait any time when the animals may then suffer unnecessarily. There will also be an opportunity to ban this change of law, and that possibility does not exist at all today. The prohibition may also be given to the animal keeper. It could, for example, be done. be a ban on the use of a collapsed barn or on the planned transport of animals by animals which are not fit for transport. That opportunity has not been given before, so it is a very good step in the right direction. Our sense of justice is really, really important. Animals are no longer just an interior or a property; they are living beings to be treated with respect and dignity. Fortunately, we have that view of animals today, and so it is that we need legislation to follow suit. It's gonna be a big step in the right direction with this bill. However, I would like to make it clear that the tightening of penalties cannot stand alone; information, education and other measures should follow. And then one of the main concerns of the Danish People's Party is an animal police force, and we will not be here until we have established it. The only concern that the Danish People's Party can have about this is whether the courts are now making good use of the tighter penalties. Today we can see that the possibility of depriving the right to have animals is not being exploited very much, and we are really, really, really sorry about that. So this is something we will be watching very closely. And there should be no doubt that if this is the case, then the Danish People's Party is ready to propose minimum penalties in this area. There is also a passage in the bill to lift the requirement for authorisation to use battery cages. This has no significance in terms of animal welfare. This is a minor administrative relief, so we have no objections. So the Danish People's Party is happy to support L 137, and we look forward to the further discussion in committee also if there are any sharpenings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145330	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145340	Thank you. The protection of animals in their response to the consultation calls, inter alia, for: to have a right of appeal in relation to authority decisions taken on the basis of the Animal Protection Act, similar to the right of appeal of the Danish Nature Conservation Association in natural matters. In other words, we would actually have an opportunity to give the animals a vote, if I may say so, some people who simply take care of the animal's interests in some of these cases. And that is something that we very much welcome in the Enhedslisten, and I can hear in the rapporteur's speech that there are many things in this Animal Protection Act that we agree with the Danish People's Party about. So I just want to hear how the Danish People's Party feels about the animal protection proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145423	At first sight, I think this is a very good proposal, but I would like to wait until we have things in place in relation to an animal police force, because then we must have all the players on the ground. But there is no doubt that giving some of these opportunities to some animal welfare organisations would be a very good idea and a good step away. After all, they are experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145449	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145450	So, in the Enhedslisten we also very much wanted to see some animal protection units set up under the police and that is what you can translate into a kind of animal police force which needs to focus on animal protection cases, precisely because this kind of case is often under-priority and no one is going to get hold of them. It does not seem that there is a majority in favour of this right now, so I think it might be possible to address this. This is certainly something that we will go further in the work of the committee, in other words to look at how this animal protection proposal could be incorporated at this stage as a different method, while at the same time working to get the priority given by the police in order simply to give animals a voice and give priority to the whole work on animal protection matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145537	Well, we're ready to take a look at that, too. The question is how to do this in a legislative way, but we are open to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145547	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145550	Thank you. This is a little in line with what the rapporteur said from the platform. As I also said, when we were in government, we proposed that, in addition to making stricter demands in relation to increasing fines and, in fact, allowing longer prison sentences, the possibility of depriving anyone of the right to keep animals should be strengthened. And I heard the rapporteur say that you would keep a close eye on whether that option was used. But can the rapporteur say whether the Danish People's Party will also be involved in the work of this committee to see whether it is possible to tighten up the possibility of depriving anyone of the right to keep animals if, for example, they have abused animals? Will this be taken into account in the work of the committee so that we can already tighten that part of the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145640	We would very much like to take a look at that. In our optics, you have abused your right to deal with animals if you do not treat them properly. So it is perfectly natural for us to be deprived of the right to deal with animals if it is the case that we have been convicted of serious abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145658	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145659	I'd just like to sign for that. I think it will strengthen this bill if we get the other half too, because, in our view, it is also about prevention. And we believe that, if we are given the prospect of losing more of the right to keep animals in the future, even if we have paid our fines, we can actually help to improve the way in which animal welfare rules are applied. So we will look forward to working on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145730	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330145741	Thank you. The Left will vote in favour of this draft law. This bill is good for animal welfare in Denmark, and with it we get attention to the seriousness of animal abuse. And not only are we being stressed how serious a crime it is when animals are being abused, but the bill also ensures that the seriousness of such violations is better reflected in the punishment. Animal abusers do not deserve to escape easily from violating innocent animals. The bill is for the benefit of the animals in Denmark, and with the intention of doubling the current level of penalties in serious animal welfare cases, much harder will be done in the future than in the past. It is expected to have a preventive effect, that the penalties will be differentiated, so that penalties are given more than at present in relation to the seriousness of the actual infringement. It must, for example, be punished more severely when cases of infringement are repeated. Similarly, it must be punished more severely when it comes to the consistent violation of animal welfare legislation by persons in their profession. This cannot and should not be accepted. By increasing the application of injunctions as well as by enabling the use of bans, there is a strengthened motivation for rule enforcement. And it is particularly positive that the proposed changes in the legislation mean that an injunction can be issued even at the time when it is obvious that there will be a breach of the rules if the situation is not rectified. In this way, it will be possible to act before, so to speak, it goes wrong. It will be possible to ward off suffering for our animals... something that is not possible, as the rules are today. For today, the rules must have been infringed before an injunction can be issued. Animals in human custody must be properly treated. They must do so, regardless of whether they are commercial animals or animals kept as family or hobby animals. I am pleased that with this bill we have the opportunity to create greater justice and hopefully to make Denmark an even better place for our animals. In the light of this, the Left, of course, will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150000	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150023	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing here is about tightening up the penalties for cruelty and for grossly reckless treatment of animals. It is both the amount of the fine and the length of any prison sentence that will be tightened up with this proposal. The abuse and reckless treatment of animals are serious offences, and in the Enhedslisten we support an increase in the level of punishment so that it reflects more strongly the gravity of the offence. However, the Enhedslisten believes that it is not only the punishment that is the problem when it comes to cruelty and grossly reckless treatment of animals. The problem is just as much that all too rarely indictments are made in animal welfare cases. Like that, among other things. In the case referred to in the observations made by the Act, the animal must actually be abused so severely that it has almost ceased or is therefore not in the Enhedslisten that it is sufficient to raise the penalty levels alone. It is also necessary to make much more frequent use of the possibilities provided for in the Animal Protection Act, both in the case of charges, penalties, prison sentences and as a crucial opportunity to deny persons the possibility of keeping animals if the offence is repeated or particularly serious in first cases. False and reckless treatment of animals must be responded to by the authorities and, if the cases are serious, it must, of course, result in a charge and a punishment. Here the penalties must be used much better than they are today. In the upcoming committee work, we would very much like to know how we can ensure that more animal protection cases actually lead to charges and penalties, just as we have taken note of the animal protection consultation answer, which highlights the possibility of introducing complaints in animal protection cases in the same way as the Danish Nature Conservation Association does in natural matters. In the Enhedslisten, we very much welcome the proposal to give animals a vote, as it were, on animal issues, and we will continue to do so in the legislative process in committee. But basically, Enhedslisten is positive about this bill, which increases the penalty for cruelty and for grossly reckless treatment of animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150254	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150305	The Liberal Alliance would just like to say very briefly that we share several of the views which, among other things, we share. The rapporteur of the Left also said, and we are pleased that the focus is on repeat cases and harsh and reckless treatment of animals when we talk about these sharpening penalties. Then we are also very pleased that this is some kind of proactivity in relation to these new injunctions. Quite briefly, the Liberal Alliance would just like to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150339	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150349	Animal welfare is of course very much at the heart of the alternative, but I would also like to say that this is an area in which we are still developing policy. When we look at this proposal, we see good and less good things in it. It is important to focus on improving animal welfare in Denmark, but we have some doubts as to whether the increased penalties will actually have that effect. It can be said that the penalty levels, as they currently stand, seem low, and that is why we are immediately in favour of their being raised. When we talk about prison sentences, we are a little more in doubt as to whether this will actually have an effect, and that is because we have to bear in mind that what this is all about is raising animal welfare, that is to say, getting fewer cases and getting better fed off animals at all. So we think it is important that in this work and we will take it up in the committee work, we try to get all the way around means so that we can have better animal welfare in Denmark. What we hear from animals' protection that they want a right to complain is obvious, and we would very much like to continue working on that. And we will look there at depriving animals of the right to keep animals, because we also see this as a constructive instrument. We also think that there could be opportunities in statutory animal welfare courses or such things, so as to raise the level of insight into what animals need. Then there is the fact that the penalty framework is not being used today, and we really think this is a very good sign that the penalty framework in itself is not what we need to focus on, but that we need to find solutions so that animal welfare is raised and we may need a number of other instruments. We would therefore like to see higher penalties, but we are very reluctant to do so with prison sentences, because we are not sure that this instrument will actually raise the level of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150622	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150639	Animal welfare is an extremely important area, which is why I would also like to thank the Minister for bringing it up. Unfortunately, there is discrimination in the assessment of which animals have a value, and we see that in this proposal too. We are in general for some more sanctions, but, like the alternative rapporteur, we would like to say that it is important to look at what is working. A doubling of the level of fines is proposed, but not for the transport of animals. In SF we will work to reduce the transport time for animals. It's outside the scope of this bill. However, we believe that this is of great importance for animal welfare. We would also like sanctions to be tightened up in this area in order to ensure that transport time is at least effectively kept within the EU rules with a good margin. The repeal of the requirement for the authorisation of laying cages will not mean either from or for animal welfare and is merely an administrative relief. So, in order to stay in animal terminology, I would say that I think we are decorated with borrowed feathers and again discriminate in the decision on which animals they are. We think there is good reason to look at the transport time for animals in particular. We think it is a good consultation answer that has come from the Protection of Animals and, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we would like to look at the possibility of depriving animals of their right to keep animals. We are very open to that. We think there are major shortcomings in the proposal and there are a number of things that we could take along to make it significantly better. However, we await our position on later and would also like to ask the Minister some questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150832	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we will be through the rapporteur's line at least those who are here. The next is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330150846	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for the good speeches. We have had a constructive debate on the bill. After all, this is an area that concerns most of us and most Danes too, because we have a high level of animal welfare and it is essential to stick to it. It is therefore also important that the penalty framework reflects the seriousness of the infringements. With this proposal, as the rapporteurs have also pointed out, we are tightening up both the amount of fines and the length of prison sentences for the serious violations of the Animal Protection Act. The bill will mean that cruel and reckless treatment of animals, cruelty to animals and repeat cases of reckless treatment of animals can be punished more severely than today. We also extend the possibility of using both injunctions and prohibitions. In this way, we will ensure that companies receive a sanction that is proportionate to the infringement and that the control of the FDA can function effectively for the benefit of animal welfare, while ensuring legal certainty for the person responsible for animal relations continues to be ensured. In addition, we are abolishing a requirement that is no longer relevant, namely the requirement that battery cages may only be used with the permission of the Danish Food Safety Authority. Today, all caged egg production is carried out in enriched cages, and the requirement therefore no longer serves any purpose. Compared to some of the things that have been addressed, among others. by Mrs Karina Due from the Danish People's Party, the government certainly shares the view that information and education are an essential prerequisite for animal welfare. That is why we will also focus on this in agricultural training when we enter into a dialogue on this. But the information work is extremely important. To Mrs Lea Wermelin, who touched on the relationship between punishment and the question of whether or not they can be deprived of the right to keep animals: it is in fact the case today that the prosecution must always consider whether a claim for a right should be made in the more serious cases. So it's supposed to be part of the whole relationship of cruel animal cruelty. The question of whether it is necessary to discuss further matters will I look forward to discussing in committee. However, it is only to confirm that practice exists in the legislation today. In those words, I would like to thank you for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151111	There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151114	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity, when we are now discussing animal welfare in this Chamber today, to ask the Minister a question. Does the Minister think there is a difference between animal welfare for animals and, let us call it pets?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151135	Thank you. In my world, all animals must be treated properly, regardless of whether they are production animals or pets.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151144	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151145	Thank you. Will the Minister also recognise that long transport times for production animals may fall under the headings of how well animals are treated? Is the Minister's view that this is a relevant area to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151209	It's relevant all the time I've been summoned in consultation about the relationship. That's where I'm gonna deal with it. But, of course, it is relevant, because Denmark has some obligations, also under the auspices of the European Union, and has a clear position on how the whole animal transport should be treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151225	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151227	Thank you. I have two questions. Firstly, it points out, among other things: The protection of animals means that there is now a very big problem with the fact that the penalties are not being used sufficiently at all. How does the Minister think that we can make better use of the penalties that actually exist so that we do not have to get out in extreme cases where the animal is dead before charges are actually made? That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 1. The second is on the proposal put forward by the Animal Protection Agency on the possibility of getting complaints levelled with the Danish Nature Conservation Association in natural matters. What is the Minister's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151309	Thank you for the questions. It is clear that, as a starting point, I am confident that the courts have a practice that partly supports the intentions of the law and, of course, uses the law in cases where it is necessary. So all the time that we have cases of serious cruelty to animals, it is clear that it is essential that action is taken, including through court rulings. On the second question about the protection of animals in terms of giving them the right to complain, I would say that the government has no interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151342	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151343	Thank you for your answer. In relation to the first part, I would like to ask: does it not concern the Minister that the protection of animals raises the flag that there may be a problem? I believe that we are all confident that the police are doing their best and that, of course, the courts are trying to follow the intention of the law. Yet there is an animal welfare organisation which points out that there may be a problem. Does this not give rise to some kind of concern on the part of the Minister, and is it not something that we should at least look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151413	This is, of course, a relevant issue addressed by the questioner. I guess I've always been the kind of person who didn't, understand me correctly, anticipate the concerns. There are a lot of challenges in this society that could have negative effects. But we have to take stock of the status quo, and what is it? The status quo is that we have a court case that deals with more serious animal abuse cases. I am confident that they will do so in good order and in accordance with the intentions of the legislation. What this leads to in the long term, and whether there should be a change of practice, etc., is something that, for example, as a committee, can be taken up with the courts in the form of appearances and the like, if the issue is to be further clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151501	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151505	Thank you. I would like to take an interest in this with the preventive effect of this bill, because it is a lot about raising the penalty framework, and I have some doubts about that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there is a technical basis for thinking that a higher penalty, as proposed in the proposal, will actually have an effect on animal welfare, or whether it is just an assumption written with the left hand that higher penalties will have an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151542	In general, higher penalties can have positive effects, including in animal welfare cases, but there is no doubt that what also the Danish People's Party's rapporteur highlights, namely the whole information part, and also that we as a government and as a Parliament address the issue, create an increased awareness of this here. That is why it is an important debate to take. As human beings, we have a responsibility for the animals for which we are entrusted, and it is clear that we must discuss it objectively with each other and ensure that there is no animal going on in our private homes or animals in our production facilities, which do not live up to what is the intention of the law and, incidentally, generally good human behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151623	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151624	In preparing the bill, have we looked at a wider range of instruments and scrapped them, or have we gone one-sidedly to have just raised the penalty framework and after these few other things that are involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151640	There is no doubt that we have had an interest in sending out a clear signal by raising the penalties, because as a society there is something essential in not to tolerate the ill-treatment of animals. Do you need other tools? This can, of course, be done in civil society with debates and information meetings, and it can be done in committee in relation to matters and the like, but the government as such has not interfered in this. We have had an intention to send a clear signal on the criminal justice framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151713	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151715	Thank you. Now the Minister also commented on this with the possibility of depriving some of the right to keep animals, and that is not in the bill here. We are therefore pleased that the government has chosen to continue with what we proposed, but we would really like that element to be included. Just to understand the Minister correctly in relation to what was said, I would just like to ask the Minister: is the Minister so open to the Government to be able to take a look at whether, in the course of the committee procedure, we will be able to make an amendment or have it put into this bill, so that even if the possibility is there today, we will make it easier to deprive some of the right to keep animals in the rough cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151758	The government will certainly look at what comes out in committee. If the facts come to light that there is a very, very large group of cases that have no consequences and that the legislation is not being applied, as was the intention, that is, that the prosecution does not use these tools, then there is reason to discuss it in committee. If it turns out what the government is supposed to do, that the framework is being used as a public prosecutor, then we do not think it is necessary to change practice, but that is one of the things we would like to wait for during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151837	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151839	In any case, I choose to hear it as if the Minister were raising his hand in relation to the fact that this is one of the things we can look at. We think it is a pity that this opportunity is not being used and, at the same time, we also think it is a pity that in some of these ill-treatment cases people can see that the next day they can continue where they left off. This is actually some of the things we want to avoid, so we will have to ask more questions about that. But now we are in the Chamber discussing animal welfare, and there were among others. from SF's side also asked about this with animal transports. I would just like to know whether the Minister will take a look at this proposal, both in the light of this proposal, but also generally in the area, in order to continue the work where we left off, namely that we are also pushing in the European Union to raise the standards for animal transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151928-2	The government is so concerned about pursuing an EU track, because it is essential that the transport practices that are cross-border and take place between European countries should, of course, meet the requirements and standards that need to be. So, of course, the European Union trail supported by the Left, when we were in opposition, is also continuing as a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330151953	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152009	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152048	Thank you. For us Socialists, environmental assessment of plans, programmes and projects is very important. We would like to have good environmental protection in Denmark, which ensures nature and the environment both now and also for future generations. That is why we are making great demands, and we think that we should continue to do so. We think it is common sense to have a more comprehensive and simplified presentation of the rules that apply to environmental assessments, and that is what is achieved by writing the two things together, and that, in general, a better overview of very complex legislation is provided also in relation to the involvement of the public and the authorities along the way in environmental assessments. We also think it is a good thing that we should, for example, do something about it. get a one stop shop with this law that makes it easier if there are more decisions in a case. But I would also like to say that we are a little concerned about whether the government is cutting a heel and cutting a toe in relation to environmental protection. In any case, we share the concern in the critical consultation responses when, among other things, this is done. is about consultation deadlines, access to redress and projects to be EIAs. So we are pleased to see that the Minister has already addressed a little in relation to the consultations that have been held, among other things. by resetting some of the deadlines. We think that's the right thing to do. However, we would also like to make sure that the legislative proposals here do not in any way impair environmental protection. So the Social Democrats think that we should stick to the fact that we should continue to be far ahead when it comes to involvement, both because it provides a better environment when people are heard, but also for the sake of the civil rights that lie in the same extension of the Aarhus Convention. This convention, as you know, was negotiated here in Denmark back in 1998 by the then Minister for the Environment, Svend Auken. It remains important, so here we are very much in agreement with, among others. Denmark's Conservation Association, CO industry and others, pointing out that they also have some concerns about that part of it. So we would like to use the committee procedure to get rid of some of these uncertainties and also some of the criticisms raised in the hearings. We look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152305	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152323	Thank you for that, President. As I understand the two proposals, it has happened that the EIA directive has been amended in the European Union, and those rules now need to be transposed into Danish legislation. At the same time, there is an environmental assessment directive, and it is estimated in Denmark that it would be wise to say that we are putting together the EIA directive and the Environmental Assessment Directive, because then we will make it easier for the public and for companies to go, yes, for everyone to go in one place to find out what it is you have to do when you have to get a project up and running. In other words, we are making a compilation which will simply give a better overview of the rules that exist for environmental assessments. There is also the merger which means that the draft law must ensure uniform application both on land and at sea. We are in fact positive about this in the Danish People's Party. As I have also read, the implementations that we have are going to make them as directive-specific as possible. As a former EU rapporteur, I can only welcome this. We had a motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). B 52, which is doing just this: we say that when we implement things from the European Union, it must be done as close as possible to the directive if we want to do further things because it can easily have a well-founded attitude and so on. In fact, this is also the case in the proposal, because there are some additional things that you would like to do, namely with regard to the two annexes, Annex 1 and Annex 2 of the directive, in which Annex 1 describes some projects that should be dealt with by the government in their proposal: if a company or a person who has a project wants to have an environmental assessment carried out, even if it is not required, it is quite okay. I really think it is very positive, because it also offers an opportunity for a company to say: whether it is necessary or not, we actually want this environmental assessment because we want to be sure that people also know that we are not big pig basses out here. So I actually think it's quite positive. I also think it is positive that we can make a new demand for some monitoring of compliance with environmental rules. It is also something that we have put on here in Denmark, but something that I actually think is positive. They say you get an approval, you can do this project, but we keep an eye on things not going any worse than we expected. So in this way I and the Danish People's Party find it quite positive, and as such we can support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152634	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152649	Thank you. I am pleased that today we are faced with these two legislative proposals, which are intended to make it possible to create a new single law for environmental assessments. It is a new law which must give a comprehensive and simplified presentation of the rules that apply to environmental assessments and which, at the same time, is also a law designed to ensure that the Environmental Assessment Directive and the EIA Directive are fully transposed into Danish law. A compilation and simplification of the rules will provide a better overview of the overall set of rules for environmental assessments. This is for the benefit of the developers, and in fact it is for the benefit of all the parties involved in the environmental impact report, including the public, which is, of course, included in the environmental impact report. The draft law makes some minor changes to the current implementation, and common to the amendments is that the draft law is implemented as closely as possible, thus avoiding unnecessary over-implementation, and only where it is appropriate for Denmark to go a little further, we do so. We do not want to destroy our competitiveness. We cannot afford that in Denmark. With the proposed new law, we are helping to ensure a high level of environmental protection by adopting plans, programmes and projects, and in other words we are helping to make the procedures for new plans, programmes and projects easier to understand, while at the same time we are helping to create a good framework for integrating environmental considerations into the preparation of new plans, programmes and projects. On that basis, the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152822	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is going really fast. Then it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330152836	The two legislative proposals we are discussing today are about the EIA rules. In normal Danish it is about assessments of the impact of environmental impacts on new projects, and it is about ensuring that the public is heard at the stage when new projects are planned, precisely because it is absolutely crucial to hear the population before major projects are established near where people live and live. Specifically, the legislative proposals concern the implementation of an EU directive in this area and the compilation of legislation on environmental assessments. These are mainly technical and sensible simplifications. However, for Enhedslisten there are also a few substantive issues that give cause for concern. This is, for example, the case. on the implementation of changes which mean that a number of project types will no longer be mandatory EIAs, including certain marine and wind turbines, and that other project types will be completely deleted from the annexes, inter alia. the so-called risk companies. However, it is unclear how much practical importance this will have, so it is something we will need to shed light on in the coming committee. The legislative proposals had originally proposed a shortening of the consultation deadlines for the environmental impact report. Following the hearing, the Ministry has decided to maintain the eight-week consultation deadlines. We very much welcome in the Enhedslisten that one has chosen to listen to and respond to the comments from among others. Denmark's Conservation Association, CO industry, DOF and the Free Air Council and maintained reasonable consultation deadlines. However, there is still the possibility of only 14 days of consultation in relation to complaints about the definition of the content of the environmental impact report, which is criticised by a number of environmental organisations. This is criticised by KL and Danish Industry. This is a criticism with which we agree in the Enhedslisten and which we will also address in the committee's examination of the legislative proposals. Although the legislative proposals are generally very much in line with the directive, it has been decided to go further than the text of the directive, as it is maintained that an EIA study should be mandatory for the purposes of fracturing in connection with the exploration or extraction of shale gas. The same applies where authorisations are granted for more than 10 years for the extraction of raw materials outside the digging areas laid down in the raw material plan. We are in favour of this in the Enhedslisten. So, overall, we are in favour of the two legislative proposals, but we have to admit that they are rather complicated, so we need a number of things to be clarified in the forthcoming committee work before we can take a final position. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330153120	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330153129	Thank you. It is, after all, a large and very incalculable area with many not very specific subtleties. You can see that when you either dive into or dig into the EIA area. The two legislative proposals, L 147 and L 148, cover, as has already been mentioned several times here from the platform today, the implementation of two EU directives, the existing directive on the environmental assessment of plans and programmes and the amended EIA directive, as well as, of course, the link between the two directives. It is always pleasing to a liberal rapporteur, as I am, when proposals are put forward by the government for better co-ordination and simplification of specific legislation which, at least on paper, can result in administrative relief of 4 million. kr. annual to industry. We in the Liberal Alliance are delighted about this, and personally I am also very pleased that it seems that we are dealing here with a very detailed draft law. So I would like to congratulate the official work in the corner for a very good piece of work and, in particular, I would like to pay tribute to the very convincing way in which I have responded to and incorporated almost all the answers to the hearing, which in this context does not even say so little. The present combination of legislation on environmental assessments creates a good and probably also needed continuity and coherence in the process of environmental assessments from initial planning to the concrete project. Hopefully, therefore, a common thread will appear more clearly in which parameters will be included in the assessment of the planned work and the content of the EIA report in a subsequent concrete project. It may then seem, in the first place, as extra work for the authorities to spend more time on environmental assessments of their own plans, but in the long term I am quite convinced, as the Minister also says, that both authorities and companies and possibly builders who are going to carry out EIA projects will experience this as an administrative relief and simplification of the process. A good result, as you know, requires good preparatory work. However, in order for good preparatory work to be carried out, it is likely that a guide should be drawn up that can be used by authorities and private actors and ensure a uniform interpretation of the law by all authorities and bodies across the country. For example: guidance will probably be needed on the application of the principle of cumulation, which has previously been part of the Order and is now being elevated to legal texts. But I also believe that somewhere I have actually seen that the Ministry intends to barrage with such guidance. The guidance can become a very crucial tool in the municipalities when, hopefully, with reform of the planning law, we will soon give the municipalities more freedom and more self-determination for local planning. So briefly, I would like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance are satisfied with the work done and would very much like to sign up for a thoroughly worked out and simplified legislative proposal, which we therefore also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330153522	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330153534	Basically, we are dealing with a very big piece of work that has ended up in an overall good implementation here. There are, among other things, as several others have also mentioned, this one stop-shopping principle. And it is also very positive that there has been listening along the way and that the consultation deadlines have largely been brought back to what we know today. It is very important for democracy that citizens feel, either directly or through the associations representing citizens, that they are consulted and can influence processes of this nature. We think there are a large number of very good consultation responses. In total, this has become 88-page consultation responses. It's very exciting reading. I can, among the heard parties, highlight the Free Air Council, Aalborg University and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association. We share some of the concerns raised in these consultations. For example: It strikes me that there is this Danish study that shows that there is in fact a poor correlation between the elements taken forward in the environmental assessment report and the subsequent authorisation given. If an environmental problem has been identified in an EIA statement, it is not always the case that it is addressed, so there is a requirement in a subsequent permit that addresses this problem. There is an issue that is fundamental and that I hope we can have a debate on in committee at some level. But I would also like to say, for example: point out that aquaculture has ended up in Annex 2. We see marine farming as something that generally has a negative potential to affect the environment. They may not belong there, but in more detail in Annex 1. We are also a little surprised that the overall implementation does not cover livestock farming. There may be an advantage in that. I cannot quite see whether this is an advantage or a disadvantage, but it is at least crucial that the requirements of animal husbandry regulations are then updated, because they are under-implemented at the moment, as I understand it. Then we also wonder why transport has been excluded. I do not have an environmental justification for this. And then there's this problem with the raw material graves, where I understand there's some sort of shopping. So you are looking for permits for something just below the size limits, and in this way you can have more raw materials digging in a local area that gives an overall high impact, but thus does not trigger demands for an EIA statement. So there are some aspects that we need to work on in committee and that are important to us. It is also suggested in a consultation answer that the framework for the assessment itself should be extended to cover some of the topics in the circular economy, so that a higher level of recycling and the promotion of circular material flows can also be achieved here, and thus better solutions for our society for the future. Overall, we think it is a good legislative proposal, but there are a number of knots that need to be worked on in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330153912	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330153920	The daily life here at Christiansborg is, of course, that you do not quite know when the debates are running down here, and that is why I was simply sitting in another meeting when we had the debate on L 137 on the Animal Protection Act. I would like to apologise to the House and to the President that unfortunately I did not get down to it, but I would just like to say that the Radical Left supports that bill so that it is also recorded in the Minutes. This bill is the execution of work by the SR government and our normal rapporteur in this area, Mrs Ida Auken, when she was Minister for the Environment. We tried to put these laws together in order to give some administrative relief to business and citizens and, above all, to the state, which is why we strongly support the fact that it is now being implemented. Like other rapporteurs, we are pleased that the consultation deadlines have changed, so there is still plenty of time for you to be heard as a citizen when something has to be changed in your local area. Radicals have some of the same things with which both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have mentioned, so I will not repeat that, but I certainly expect that we will be able to resolve this through the committee procedure so that we can have a broad adoption of this bill when we come to the third reading. So thank you for finishing our work to the Left and the new government. We appreciate that. I think we'll have a really good law made when we're done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330154057	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330154115	It is wise to simplify legislation by bringing regulation into one law. It is also wise to seek to make legislation as compatible as possible with EU legislation, although it is probably more a mantra to prevent over-implementation that governs the government. But everything else will make it easier to organise the Danish law when EU legislation is amended. Having said that, I would like to say that this is a very complex piece of legislation, and there is a need for a fairly detailed assessment of the individual elements of the proposal in the committee's work. However, like previous rapporteurs up here, I would also like to commend the officials for a rather comprehensive and fine piece of work. Politically, we in the SF will focus on seven points, at least so far, in the work of the committee: 1) Points that the government sees as having something to do with over-implementation; 2) additional projects that should always be subject to EIA obligations; that is something that we think should be looked at, for example. (iii) the relationship with other relevant directives, e.g.: Natura 2000 and the Water Framework Directive, 4) a discussion that livestock farming is exempted from the law, because the government claims that regulation is already implementing the directives, whereas the Danish Nature Conservation Association claims that livestock regulation is under-implementing, 5) the question of when an environmental authorisation can replace the EIA, as the Danish Nature Conservation Association claims that, on the contrary, more EIAs will be needed, which we would like to discuss and have answers from the Minister on 6) cumulative effects to be ensured, it is uncertain for us, and we cannot at least read from the draft law whether this is the case, which we would like to have answers and 7) the question of consultation deadlines and involvement of the population. So these were a number of points • they will come in writing also • which we would like to discuss, but overall we think, of course, in line with other rapporteurs that is a very good proposal, but it is also very complicated. There are many things in it, so we put these points in writing at least and look forward to the discussion as well. It will also be much simpler for both companies and citizens to deal with this, and that is always good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330154343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330154354	As several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, this new legislative proposal introduces a new, comprehensive piece of legislation which will provide a simplification that will provide a better overview. We can all be interested in that. It is essential that what we are doing in here is to guide those people in whom it affects everyday life, and it has to be said that there has probably been something to want on this point. So that in itself is a very good first step. Great praise for that. At the same time, an EU directive is being implemented, and this is being done very closely. It is a good thing as a starting point. There are also areas where it makes sense to depart from the implementation of this directive. This applies, among other things, to: the time limits for consultation. We were very saddened that a proposal was put forward in consultation, in which it was proposed to cut the consultation deadlines for the public from these 8 weeks to four weeks. We really think it is a little arrogant to the people. When we want them to deliver something to the public, there are just deadlines, and it has to be done quickly, but the opposite is the case here, that you can send out a large EIA statement in consultation, which may be hundreds of pages. In theory, you could do it over a Christmas holiday or summer vacation and then say, "Here you go, you have 4 weeks to brief yourselves in that. We simply did not think this was fair, and so we were very sorry that the four weeks were being set up, and so we are also very, very happy and satisfied that the Minister has listened to both of us, but of course also to the consultations that have been held, which have pointed out that this was problematic. So yes, directive-by-direct implementation is good when it makes sense, but when we can offer something better in our existing legislation, we must of course maintain it. I'm not going to go through Slavic what's in it. This has been done by the other rapporteurs, but I would just like to point out one thing that has not been touched upon so much. This is the new option for one stop shop, which is being introduced for the developers and which allows developers to contact only one place. If their projects are subject both to the EIA and also to other EU directives such as: The habitats directive, they should only go to one place in the public sector, and in this way they will get easier handling of their cases. It is also pleasing. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that there are a number of projects which will no longer be subject to EIA obligations but need to be screened to see if there is a need. It may well be that there are some shortcomings in the division that has been made there of what belongs to which category. We must look at this in the course of the committee work. I immediately thought that what was there seemed reasonable. All in all, however, it is a very good piece of legislation that is being proposed here, and we are very happy and grateful that we have been accommodated in the question of the 8-week consultation period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330154650	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330154658	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs for their comments on the legislative proposals. I am pleased that so many have welcomed them. We must take care of our environment, while providing room for growth and development in a good balance, and here the rules on environmental assessment are central. On the one hand, they must ensure that we take decisions on an informed basis and involve the public, and on the other hand, the rules must ensure that the environmental assessment requirements are uniform, transparent and predictable for the developer. With the legislative proposals, we make legislation on environmental assessment simpler and more transparent. Firstly, with a few exceptions, we bring together all procedural rules and environmental assessments of projects into one law, so that builders and authorities only have to look in one place. Secondly, we put together the rules for the environmental assessment of plans and programmes with the rules for the environmental assessment of projects. The two processes are already very similar and often connected. Before a specific project can become a reality, an environmental assessment must often be carried out, first of all of land use planning and later of a specific project. Now it will be easier for builders and authorities to understand the overall process. At the same time, we are updating the Danish legislation so that we are in line with the EU EIA Directive and the latest changes. And we do so as closely as possible, so that Danish companies and entrepreneurs have at least as good conditions as their colleagues in our neighbouring countries, but with few deviations to which I would like to return. It is absolutely crucial for Danish competitiveness that we do not set our companies apart with unnecessary over-implementation. It will therefore also be possible to see that Annexes 1 and 2 of the draft law now correspond, with few exceptions, to Annexes 1 and 2 of the EIA Directive. On the other hand, we should not jump on the lowest common denominator when there is a good reason for overimplementation. Among other things: we have chosen that for projects on land it must remain mandatory for the Authority to define what the report should contain before the developer prepares the environmental impact report. We also insist that the public and the authorities concerned should be consulted during the delimitation phase. We do this because ultimately it will help the developer to know about the significant environmental impact that the public and the authorities expect. It is simply too expensive, both for the developer and for the environment, if the consequences become apparent only after the developer has thrown millions of kroner into the new plants and it then turns out that the location or use is not acceptable. It will then be possible to see deviations in Annex 1 and Annex 2. For example: We insist that individual wind turbines should continue to be screening obligatory, even if the directive only requires wind farms to be screened. We do so because in Denmark we live so close that even a few wind turbines in the open country with the size they have today can give rise to potential conflicts in relation to various protection interests. And the EIA rules are a good instrument for identifying the relevant issues that may give rise to conflict. The only exceptions are the small individual household mills. They will no longer be subject to screening in land zone. We also insist that the public and the authorities should be given at least eight weeks' time to comment on the environmental impact report for specific projects on land, as several rapporteurs have said. The national schemes and special attachment points are detailed in the draft law's comments, because it must be easy to be a company in Denmark, and with the draft law it should be even easier here. The amended EIA Directive introduces a deadline for the authority to take screening decisions of up to 90 days, which the authority will only be able to exceed in specific cases. Here, as a starting point, business will also be able to reap administrative gains due to fixed processing times and administrative reliefs. A further relief is the introduction of the so-called one-stop shop, which is also mentioned by several rapporteurs, and which establishes the principle that a developer should only turn to one authority when a specific project requires both an EIA assessment and an assessment in relation to other EU directives such as the EIA. EU Habitats Directive. Depending on the specific design of the scheme, different authorisation, derogation and approval arrangements may be combined. The organisation of the one-stop shop scheme itself shall be carried out by establishing coordinated and/or common procedures that comply with the requirements of those Directives, where appropriate. In relation to the deadline for consultation of the public of 8 weeks, one might ask why Danish developers should work with a consultation period of at least 8 weeks instead of at least 30 days set by the EU. It's a political choice. We want to create the best possible framework for growth and development while maintaining the high level of environmental protection and citizen involvement that we have in Denmark. We do this by ensuring that we have significant consequences on the table before the investor has tied his money into bricks and technology. A good consultation process prevents unpleasant surprises, which can be very expensive, both for the developer and for the environment. In addition, the draft law means that in future, a number of projects are no longer mandatory EIA obligations. This facilitates the projects from which the screening is sorted and therefore avoids environmental impact assessment. These are complicated rules. The Ministry of the Environment and Food is therefore aware that there is a great need for guidance on how the rules can work smoothly in practice, both for authorities and builders. The draft law contains a number of authorisations and the notices will be drawn up in accordance with the same general principles as the draft law: directive-by-law implementation with the least possible administrative burden. Relevant stakeholders will, of course, be involved in the work on the preparation of both the rules and the follow-up guidance. Several rapporteurs have expressed their views on the question of which specific types of project should be subject to mandatory EIA obligations, the so-called Annex 1 projects, and which types of projects should be subject only to EIA obligations on the basis of a specific assessment, i.e. the so-called screening, also known as Annex 2 projects. I would very much like to reply to the Folketing thoroughly and fully to these and other questions, but I think they are best suited for written answer and discussion during the committee procedure. A number of points were also made by the SF rapporteur in relation to that process. As I said, these are key procedural rules in the area of environmental regulation, and I therefore hope that we will have a good dialogue in committee so that we can achieve a broad majority in favour of the legislative proposals. For me and the government, it is essential that we bring together the relevant legislation as much as possible, so that builders and authorities only have to look in one place, that we implement the Environmental Assessment Directive and the EIA Directive as closely as possible, that we stick to the good principles and considerations we have in Denmark and that we do not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on businesses or authorities. I look forward to a good further reading of the draft law in committee and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330155405	We thank the Minister for the Environment and Food. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160330155422	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 31 March 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
