ParlaMint-DK_20160315130022	The meeting is open. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315130038	Thank you. The last few weeks have revealed a serious problem which we were all well aware of, but which has rarely been so clearly identified in public as we have seen it. Wives who are urged to remain with a violent husband and who must accept multi-wifery; parents who learn to beat their children; women who are in some cases to turn down jobs if there are men at work; religious rules that are placed above the laws of society. It is now clear to everyone, perhaps even more clearly than we have seen in the past, that some around certain religious communities abuse our freedoms, religious freedom, freedom of expression, to undermine the very democracy on which freedoms are based and derived. And what do we do about it? If there was a very simple, easy solution, I am sure it was used long ago, but in the fight against anti-democratic and extremist environments there is unfortunately no finger-tip solution. We have set a series of things in motion in order to strengthen the preventive action we have together. We recently adopted two legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the tools of the authorities to prevent radicalisation, among others. the possibility of seclusion of extremist prisoners into prisons. We have set aside resources to give young men and women seeking a way out of closed radical environments an opportunity to do so through a new exit centre. We've tightened up PET's capabilities. We have stepped up our efforts against Syrian warriors, and the bill on treason was passed in the Folketing shortly before Christmas. So we have done a great deal, but we must also honestly say that we have not done enough. Unfortunately, the easy solutions are not there because we have something here that is a real paradox. How do you fight something that is protected by our fundamental values of society? It's hard. It hits right into the heart of our democracy, right into our social souls. It is a paradox that many of the solutions that have been put forward immediately run counter to the fact that this cannot be done because there are fundamental rights, and what are we going to do with those who use these fundamental rights to protect themselves behind them, to really try to break down our social model? I welcome the fact that over the last few weeks the political parties of the Folketing, which they are absolutely most, have been strongly opposed to the statements we have seen about, among other things. The ugly mosque. Many have also indicated a considerable willingness to tackle the problem, to try to resolve it, and I would like to sign for that, because in my view we are facing a challenge here, which is beyond general party politics, but which is really about how we, who fight peacefully in here, protect ourselves from those who basically want democracy to be put to death. We're gonna have a fight. I do not have the answers, not on a stand-by basis, but I would like to offer to invite those parties in this Chamber who acknowledge this paradox and who would like to do something about it so that we can give a united, effective response, not just shouting out our impotence from the rooftops, but making something that works into cooperation with the government. Therefore, immediately after Easter, I would like to invite the party leaders to a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office to launch a work with the church minister Bertel Haarder in the lead, together with the integration minister Inger Støjberg and other relevant ministers, to find solutions that work, that respect democracy, but at the same time take a hard stand against those who do not respect our laws, who say away from those who seek to limit our freedom, who are fighting against those who basically want a fight with the free society that we all know and love. It's a challenge that embraces widely. It is about our fundamental democratic values, our culture, our history, about the role of the municipalities, about education, about faith and about many, many other things. That is why I would like to invite and appeal to broad cooperation. What we have here is not a new problem. It existed under the previous government, it also existed under the previous one, and it will also exist under the next one, unless we now find some effective responses together. So, in this light, I would like to start the Question Time here with this invitation, which I hope the parties will accept constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315130612	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. In the first round, the questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315130629	I think that is a good thing, and it may even be that we can short a bit of Question Time today, because I would have liked to propose to the government and the Prime Minister that we call for exactly the negotiations, because we need to be united across the political parties and the red and blue blocs, to reach the common solutions that are needed so that all citizens in Denmark can, of course, live free, democratically based lives. Not that I have to decide how the government organises its work, but I would suggest, however, that the Prime Minister himself take the lead in those negotiations and that we, as party leaders, take part in them. This is a very important matter and I am of the opinion that it is our cohesion that is at stake with what we have seen manifest and which we have known for a time. So this is a call for the Prime Minister to take the lead. The interesting thing is that today, when the Prime Minister reviews what we have seen through TV 2's, I think really good journalism, you think it's about another country. You think you're somewhere else in the world. Imagine that in the Danish Parliament 2016 we have to deal with multiple wives, with systematic violence against children and with abuse of women, and that we must be spectators of the fact that ordinary people in our society, in the midst of Denmark, have trampled on even basic fundamental democratic rights underfoot but it exists. This is not a small part of Denmark. It's been allowed to grow bigger. We have parallel societies in Denmark where religious preachers believe that they have a stronger voice than our democracy, our constitution and the absolutely fundamental human rights. That is why we must oppose it. I think that we can already discuss concrete proposals. I think it is true that we need a broad palette of proposals, but I would like to start that discussion with the Prime Minister today, whether we should not, as part of the negotiations, allow the young women and men who want to break with patriarchal education patterns, with oppressive parents and with domestic violence, to have more and better opportunities to break out of a oppressive and unfortunately Muslim environment for some.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315130842	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315130844	Thank you for that and thank you for the constructive tone in which my proposal here for negotiations or cooperation has been taken down. I'm glad. I just imagine that it is myself who sets me in front of the table at a meeting of the Prime Minister's Office starting in the circle of party leaders. But I also think we have to see that if we are going to get rid of this, we have to go down into many different toolboxes, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen is suggesting one of the options. There are tasks in relation to the way we deal with religious communities. Can we tighten the rules there? I have taken note of the proposal to demand that only one language can be preached in which everyone can follow. There is the whole question of our foreign policy. Well, do we have the tools to reject/expel hate preachers? There is a task for the municipalities, so we avoid a situation where we first distribute subsidies under the Act of Leisure and Association, and what it is called, then to see that it is money that is being put into play in the fight against our society. There is clearly also, in order to answer the question now, what may be called a social policy response. We have taken some steps in the latest wage-pool agreement, as a result of which a new exit centre is being set up, designed precisely for young people who breathe so much air into their lungs that they have the courage to turn their backs on a parallel society and instead want to grasp for this fantastic democracy that we live in, with all the opportunities it offers. It can certainly also be a dimension. On the whole, I would like to say that my approach to this work will be that I do not exclude any solutions from the outset, nor do I stand up here for a start and say that I have a patent for any solutions. Because I think we have to recognise that this is difficult because we have just what I referred to as a paradox: some who abuse our freedoms to undermine them. And how do we fight them without making violence on the freedoms and the democracy that we all love so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131055	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131057	I think it is positive if there is already a commitment to reach out to the often younger men and women who want to break with the environment and who need protection, at worst a change of identity and, at least, a guarantee that they can maintain a good life even if they have to turn their backs on their families and their own culture. It is also positive to highlight what concerns our general legislation on associations. After all, it is absurd in itself that Hizb ut-Tahrir in Copenhagen sits in municipal premises and pours out their positions against our democracy and against the society in which they are unfortunately present. But there is also a need to look at some of the much more robust. More than 100 days ago, the Prime Minister and I discussed a proposal on our part to prevent the preachers of hatred from travelling from country to country and using the religious platform, as it were, on one day in London, the next day in Copenhagen or in Aarhus, to either pour out undemocratic attitudes towards minorities or to act against our society at all. How far has the government come with this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131208	This question has to be addressed to the Minister for Integration, who is in a position to do so. There are opportunities in the law on foreigners and also opportunities that we ourselves have historically helped to create. But that is precisely why I believe that we need to invest some energy together now in the spirit of cooperation. For what I am experiencing myself, at least, and let me now be quite open about it as a potential sense of impotence, is precisely the fact that we have created a democracy with a number of freedoms such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, to mention just two central values that can then be covered up when you really want to fight our society. That is exactly what the dilemma is. That is why I think we now, instead of having what to say, solve, but well-intentioned proposals need to really work together, in other words right down to matter, about: What is needed? What can you do? Where are the limits of the Constitution? Is there an opportunity to challenge the Constitution? Do we, if I may say so, have enough assembly in the Folketing? In other words, are there so many parties who take responsibility that one also dares to go to the limits of what has historically been the view that one can? That's the kind of work I'm going to do now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131338	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131340	However, I am now asking the Prime Minister the question, because I would be surprised if the Prime Minister, when we had a dialogue in the Folketing more than 100 days ago to prevent just exactly the preachers of hatred from being in Denmark and, incidentally, in other European countries, did not find the opportunity to follow up on the question. At that time, the PM couldn't answer. Now we have had more than 100 days to think about it, and that is why I am asking the question again, because one is all we can do through our leisure legislation, through social legislation, in the field of education, we are therefore willing to discuss all the issues that have been raised in the debate, but it starts and ends, of course, by knowing whether we have preachers in Danish mosques who may be allowed to abuse our hospitality, our openness to pour out their undemocratic attitudes and values. That is why I think it is important for us in Europe to work together to prevent preachers from travelling from one country to another, thereby putting at least part of the protection we need to have against precisely these very darkened radicalist tendencies. That is why the question to the Prime Minister is again: how far has this work been achieved, because we consider this to be central to our joint efforts to tackle at least some of the problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131452	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131453	Thank you. Well, in reality, it might start and end in two places. The one place where it starts and ends at is whether we use the tools we have in our administration, i.e., among other things. the alien law we have to strike down hate preachers hard within the framework of it. And it is certainly my view that we do. The more technicalities in the exercise of this is an issue which must be addressed to the Minister of Integration. Then there is the second issue, which, unfortunately, I think we will meet very, very quickly: is the regulatory framework that we have sufficiently robust to be able to do what we intuitively want? That is exactly the dilemma I am trying to talk about here. When we see these broadcasts, I think that every democrat in himself resorts to some very quick answers: close the mosque, throw those people out! It must then be able to stand the test against the democracy in which we live, with the rules that have historically been adopted. And if we are going to solve this effectively, where we are not just competing in, who can talk about it the most, then I think we need to sit down calmly with the same approach that must be shared by all democratic parties and look at: can we do something more than what we are doing today? That is what I am making myself available for, that is what the ministers are making themselves available for, including, of course, giving completely detailed answers to the questions that are being asked, how many people they have tried to expel and how many situations they have tried to prevent entry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131630	Thank you. Then it is the second round that we are going to go on to where the questioner and the Prime Minister again have two minutes' speaking time each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131637	I am not quite sure that I understood the Prime Minister's reply, because now it is the Prime Minister's party that has proposed closing a mosque, even if it would not be tolerable in relation to the Constitution. I would like to see the Grimhøjmosque closed, and I do, because I do not believe that it is compatible with our society and our democracy. But it goes without saying that the framework for what we can do is our constitution. I do not think it is a question of technicalities. Because when the Prime Minister says that the Prime Minister is of the opinion that the Aliens Act is being applied today, I do not agree. Then I don't agree. For a period of time at European level I myself have had the opportunity to discuss it with colleagues, seeing a pattern in that imams travel from one country to another. That is why I believe that there is a need for a European system so that we can prevent this entry. That is a technical question, of course, but it is certainly a matter of value. Are we going to use our legislation for it or not? And do we also need some pan-European answers in this area? I think we have to put in a lot of places, but the preaching of the mosques in such a way as that which we have seen, among other things. in TV 2's revelations, but as we have already known before, is an obstacle to good integration and to the necessary cohesion of our society. In fact, I do not share the Prime Minister's view of impotence. I think we have to deal with the opposite; go back in our own history and see how we have solved serious social crises and challenges in the past. We have never made it an individual issue for women to achieve equality in Denmark, on the contrary, we have united. We have not asked each young woman to take the fight when there was no equality in our own society. We've made this a common cause. I actually believe that one of the most important things we can do to our young people with a Muslim background is to stand behind them, side by side, would them as part of our society, but of course on the basis of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131842	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315131844	Well, I'm one hundred percent in agreement with that. I do not think it really serves any purpose to try to talk some conflict here. At least that's not what I'm going to do. I am pleased that the questioner feels no sense of impotence. Okay, the questioner then had until recently the power, that is to say, was in charge of alien law. We've got the problem anyway. We can assume that you feel no impotence and that you just recently had power but the problem has not been solved. I could cheer myself up about that. I'm not gonna do that. Because we also had the problem during the previous reign. And my prognosis is that unless we really try to discuss with each other with the ambition of achieving common objectives, then we will also have the problem when a new government comes in. Because it is our democracy itself that is challenged. I fully agree that some of the answers that need to be found here are also outside the country's borders. So the entire current influx of refugees is also a dimension here. Numbers matter for our ability to integrate forward-lookingly. So there is no simple solution. Nor do I have the feeling that in this way we can make the national compromise that causes all outstanding issues relating to integration and aliens to disappear or all areas in a stand-alone social policy discussion about what resource use should be at our women's centres or other. I haven't. However, I have an ambition that those parties that have entered the debate vigorously in recent weeks could sit down and work together, not to stick something in their shoes or to tear each other's noses, but to really try to go after things and give everything a service. Are the rules we have tight enough? Can they be tightened further without us hitting a constitutional limit? Do we have the courage to start cases and take a process risk on some issues? Then we can move something, and that's really what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132050	Thank you. Then there are two follow-up questions, and there are 1⁄2 minutes for each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132054	But that has been promised many minutes ago, and the only one who talks about political teasing here is the Prime Minister's statement on our part only positive. While we ourselves had the responsibility of government, we came a long way, for example on the issue of taking the passport from Syrians and, by the way, starting up the work that has now made us have a completely different and, in my view, much more up-to-date understanding of what the traitor question is, which also has a connection with radicalisation and integration at home. So that is just what I think is crucial is that we dare work at all levels at once, and that is why there is again an appeal for the imam issue, of course, to be central.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132137	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132139	Well, that's excellent, and I'd like to sign for that, too. This means, of course, that we can meet immediately after Easter with the positive approach, that we have a problem which has not yet been resolved, but which we then agree to at least try to work together to get the attack on all the facets it has, and that is a job that I look forward to very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132159	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132200	I can reach a final question here on the subject of something quite different, and this is about the proposal for a regulation on the ceiling for cash benefits, which is being dealt with differently today, and where the government takes the view that approx. 700 people will be associated with the labour market, i.e. 700 more will be employed. But if we look at the group that is hit by the cash aid ceiling, we can see that it is much, much larger. There are many more thousands who will not get into work but who will remain on cash benefits. What exactly is the government's plan for these people? Should they only have reduced their benefits, or is there some understanding that we will have to do more if we really want to have both a decent standard of living and that people should not be put out of their homes and that a link with the labour market can be achieved? So in concrete terms: what are we going to do in the housing sector when more people are bound to be exposed by their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132244	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132246	Thank you. In other words, when we have proposed a cash-aid ceiling which is entirely in line with what we were going to vote for, and where it is therefore, I hope, cannot surprise anyone, yes, it may surprise some, but we ourselves do not surprise that we are delivering what we promised, because we can see that although employment is increasing, there is a stagnant number of cash-aid recipients, and we simply need to do something more to create something more social mobility. And that's exactly the idea here. Then you can have a debate on what structural extra employment is, but what is crucial here is people in the back, and I think Mrs Mette Frederiksen will recognise that too, and Mrs Frederiksen has several questions. Then I've got in my head, too, that I'm now talking about people in the back. But they're the ones it's about. After all, it is a question of trying to support social mobility so that the people who are currently on cash benefits manage to get to work. That is also why the ceiling is designed in such a way that, for example, if one's housing security is hit by the ceiling, one can break out of it again with a relatively small level of employment. Because we want to create a system where working rather than not working also makes a positive difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132359	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132406	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. I think most people who experienced TV 2's documentary series in recent weeks have been quite frightened by what has been uncovered. It is quite obvious that in mosques in Denmark one teaches stoning, that one tells about women having to accept violence on the part of their husbands, that multi-wifery must be accepted. You have to bid, I think it was said in one of the broadcasts, when the man calls to the marriage bed, whether you want to or not. All these things really have again frightened the Danish people. In fact, I think we were even more frightened when we also saw the follow-up from the Islamic leaders gathered on Sunday to respond to this. 31 mosques and Islamic organisations were represented at a summit in the Islamic Cultural Centre in Copenhagen's northwest district on Sunday. Here they reached five points, which were their response to TV 2's cover. The five points were all about the fact that it was TV 2 who was responsible for the fact that it was they who brought the message of what was happening in the mosques, who committed 30 years of otherwise positive integration work. I think that most people who have taken note of the five points in their reply were just frightened that such a cover could provide such a response. This illustrates some of the task facing Danish society. That is why, of course, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I will also give an undertaking to the Prime Minister and his wish for an active participation in a series of meetings which I hope will lead to some action. Because I think most Danes are sick and tired of politicians talking. I think they want action. When you hear the Minister of Integration say that the Grimhøjmosque had to be leveled if it was up to her or hear other politicians in here saying the same thing, without actually happening, and without voting for this proposal this afternoon, even though the Danish People's Party has tabled it, to close the Grimhøjmoskeen, then I think they lack action. That is why I would at least like to use the hour of questioning here to exonerate the Prime Minister a little bit of what action he is imagining. One thing is that there will be a series of meetings. That is a good thing, but what action is going to be taken? I think there might be a few more words about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132637	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132639	Thank you. May I just say, first of all, that I fully share the reaction that was to the response that then came from the Imams, where they started shooting at the messenger or whoever had, as it were, facilitated the proper context of matters, rather than being self-critical about the context in which they themselves were involved. And that also shows that we are up against something that is immediately far from therapeutic reach, to put it that way. That is also what makes it so important for us to take action so that we avoid what we may have seen historically, namely that when such things are uncovered in public, rhetoric becomes harsh. I remember a former SF chairman who, in rather direct terms, which I do not want to reproduce in this Chamber, was told what to do, where to go. But if it just gets yelled at, and you can't put your will behind it, it won't do you any good. That is why I think we need to sit down. And my own approach to this is that, within the framework of our fundamental democratic rights, we must go as far as we can. It's the kind of work I'm inviting you to do. So I am not inviting to work where we just sit down and have such a first spinal cord interpretation of where the limits of the constitution are, but a work where we can also explore law together. For my own reading of this is that we are fundamentally challenged by some who abuse the freedoms created through generations to try to undermine them. That is why we cannot simply say that the freedoms under which we are covered are so high that, as long as they are spoken out loud, protection has been achieved. We need to push a little more. And that is why I have an open mind both on the question of what demands are made on religious communities, what requirements they have to meet, what the effect is that they do not live up to them, and it is on the question of entry and exit, and it is on the question of being able to call themselves a religious preaching community at all that we can tighten the rules there? Well, I kind of go into this with a pretty open mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132904	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315132907	I am certainly pleased about that too, and I am also saying that if you are to have control over who goes into Denmark, as others have also argued, then it will probably require a border control • then we have come this far. I am also in on it with religions, with regard to when they can be approved, what privileges they get out of it, after all, they get today, by not paying land and property taxes, that they have the right to marry, etc. However, there is also the completely cash question of when to give Danish citizenship and when to be able to take Danish citizenship from a person again. I have at least noted that the current Minister for Integration, when she was politically rapporteur on the Left, would in 2014 look at the consequences something should have for an imam called Abu Bilal, and she would examine his residence basis. I have also noted that as Minister for Integration, she will now be examining the same person's residence basis in 2016. And when you examine the basis of stay, you can find out in 2014, and in 2016 you can find out that in 2000 the man was granted Danish citizenship by this Parliament against the votes of the Danish People's Party. If you really have to do something about this, you have to instill in these people the fear that they are losing Denmark as a safe base, as a place where they can unfold their hate sermons to the world. And something that would work would therefore be a threat that, if you have been granted Danish citizenship here in the Danish Parliament, you can also have it taken away from you if you engage in it, as among other things. What the imam in question has done, that is to say that we are not merely examining the basis of residence, but that we are also acting in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133045	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133047	If you have examined it in 2014 and 2016 and have reached the same disheartening result, namely that you cannot do anything, then if you have the will to do something else, you have to see that logically it must be the case that the rules cut you off from doing something. And that is why we are going to discuss whether we have the right rules. And then I repeat myself again: we're going into this work... I'm going into this work... with a very open mind... to do everything we can to fight this evil, with respect for the fundamental rights of democracy that are in Danish society. And it will come to light and I don't think we should talk any further here today that it's unfortunately not quite that simple in all situations. When, for example, it doesn't work. We are talking about citizenship, what do the international conventions say? Can people be deprived of citizenship if the effect is that they become stateless? Can you do that if they have dual citizenship? Well, these are the things that need to be explored. What I am saying here today is that we have to attack this whole thing together, and with a degree of flexibility and ambition which is higher than what it has historically been. That is probably the best I can say today, and I look forward to that work being started immediately after Easter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133203	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133205	I also sign for that, and we come to the meeting session, and for our sake you can start before Easter it doesn't have to wait until after Easter. I think there are many Danes who think this is really urgent. And I wish all sorts of good things for that series of meetings and for the results of it, but I also think that in the meantime there will still be a political debate on what will happen. When I use this example of citizenship, it is because in 2014 if you have examined a residence base and found that you can't do anything, you will probably arrive at the same thing in 2016, if you haven't done anything in the meantime. And that is why I am also a little trying to challenge what I am glad to hear the Prime Minister say about what the framework of the constitution is, because perhaps you also often use the constitution as a shield in front of you. So, with regard to the example of the Grimmøjmoskeen, which the Danish People's Party has this afternoon to propose to close the vote in this Chamber, it is clear from the constitution that you must close the mosque first if you think that it is committing the abuses and things and matters that the Constitution otherwise describes, and then you have to take a legal verdict about it. But as long as the Folketing is not even prepared to take the first step, that is to say that it must be closed, then you will not come to the legal dispute, and then it may be difficult to find out what the framework of the constitution really is. And that is why I hope that it can also be included in the Prime Minister's deliberations. At least it will be included in the series of meetings at our request.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133328	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133330	Thank you. I mean, it could be before Easter, but now the situation is that later this week there is an EU summit that I am going to take part in, and which has the relevance for this, that it is about trying to sort out these refugee and migrant flows, which, if we do not, will only accelerate this problem. And it's hard to be in two places at the same time. So it's after Easter. I'm going to repeat myself a little bit. It is clear that if, as an opposition party in 2014, you have had an ambition without sitting on the administration, and then you get into the administration and have the same ambition and arrive at a failure to deliver, then there is a challenge, and then the challenge is that you have promised more than you can keep, to put it bluntly. And then you have to discuss what it takes to start delivering what is the political ambition, and that is the work I am inviting you to do. Because there isn't a single one here, I don't think, at least, many here do not intuitively reach those solutions when we see what we see: why don't you just...? Why don't you throw people out? Why don't you close...? And so on. And when you do not do what you intuitively think, it is because we have set up a society with a set of rules that makes it not the solution immediately, and then we have to discuss what needs to be done so that we can have solutions on the table that are more effective. There I send the general signal that, with respect, of course, for the fundamental rules of the game of democracy and defined by the constitution that we have, we are prepared to look for all the solutions that are needed to ensure that it works, so that it does not just become a competition for action-oriented shouting, but that we also deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133523	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133528	Thank you. And thank you for inviting us to negotiations after Easter. We would, of course, like to participate. Unfortunately, this is an extremely relevant issue. This week Parliament will have to adopt the so-called cash aid ceiling. I think it is really very spiny and weird to call it a cash aid ceiling. Because it sounds like you've just been able to get endless benefits in the past. You don't. What this new bill is about is that the benefits are significantly reduced, i.e. that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, takes thousands of kroner from Danes who already have the very least. Up to 36,000 kroner. a year a single unemployed mother with two children may lose. That's more than 2,000 kroner. a month. And that happens a few months after you in the government have given tax rebates to the Danes who can afford to buy the biggest cars. This is happening at the same time that the government is once again planning to lower the top tax. In such a situation you choose to throw yourself at the Danes who have the least; the most vulnerable; those who cannot find a job in the increasingly demanding, complex labour market; for many people who have serious social problems, have mental disorders, have physical sufferings. Those hardest hit by this are single parents with children, and they're typically single mothers. There are thousands of children who will be affected by this. Children's organisations warn against child poverty. There are thousands of children who will experience the stress and discomfort and desperation that comes with not being able to pay the rent at the end of the month and who will experience fathers and mothers with wrinkled pans because they are worried about not being able to pay the bills. That's the result, sir. Prime Minister, of this law that you will implement this week with the votes of the Danish People's Party, who promised the Danes before the elections that it would not happen. Is it true, Prime Minister (President: thank the rapporteur and go to the Prime Minister) that those hit hardest are single parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133748	Thank you to the questioner. The questioner must comply with that when it is said that the speaking time has been exceeded. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315133755	Well, I think we are dealing here with something that is a real political conflict. I believe that on long stretches we share the analysis that it is certainly not good to grow up in a home where money is scarce, where mother and father are put outside the labour market. It's pushing a childhood. I think we are in complete agreement on that. It is therefore for me to create social mobility and to ensure that people who are currently parked on the edge of our labour market enter our labour market to the satisfaction of themselves, but also to the satisfaction of their children. Apparently, we disagree on how to do it. The government's response, which we also gave the Danes before the election, is that we will set a ceiling on the overall amount of social benefits that can be obtained, so that a greater incentive, a greater incentive and a greater gain are created by taking work • also work for a low salary and also work, which may not, from the outset, be the work one intended to have. It may be that you are a trained nurse and that there is no job to get in nursing, but that you have the opportunity to get a cleaning job. Then it's better that you get a cleaning job and get started and qualify. That's our thinking. This is, of course, highlighted by the fact that since the financial crisis hit us, the number of cash aid recipients has increased. It also increased in 2015, i.e. last year, although employment increased. So more and more people are getting into work and more and more jobs are being created. Some of them are thus created on the condition that people come in from outside and take the work while we have an increasingly large group sitting passively. That's not gonna work. It's in that light, it needs to be seen. But it is also from the reasonable point of view that the people who get up every morning, transport themselves to a job for a low salary, must have a gain in it. That's why we do it. It is not with any ambition to keep children in poverty, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134005	Then there is a follow-up question with one minute's speaking time. Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134009	I know the government says this is about people getting to work. I guess it's an ambition that everyone in here shares. How nice it would be if all people were at work. But first of all there is unemployment in Denmark, Prime Minister. It's not like you can just pick a job on a tree if you want. Secondly, a great many of the people affected by these severe cuts have to live for much less a month, and a great many of the children that the Prime Minister says the Prime Minister cares about have parents who are unable to work. They have mental illnesses, they have physical illnesses, and the municipality has said to them: you are not able to work. Yet their benefits are being cut. Then the Prime Minister says that we probably have a lot of disagreement about how people get to work. I don't know, Prime Minister, because are we now? The Prime Minister's own figures show that by 2020 700 people will get to work as a result of this and that it is 30,000 Danes who are affected. Isn't this a confession case, sir? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134117	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134119	No, it certainly isn't. With regard to the 700, what is the effect on what is called structural employment? It is not, of course, about the fact that out of those who are currently on cash benefits there are only 700 who are going to work. I mean, things don't stand still. And cash benefits aren't meant to be a service, you have to be on permanent. There is, in fact, a very large difference between whether you are on cash benefits for a short period of time, including an overall more modest economy than the one you have today, or whether you have to be on these benefits permanently. And the ceiling on cash benefits, together with the tax cuts that we intend to return to in the autumn, with a special focus on people with small incomes, must serve the purpose of getting more movement, that we get things going, that people are less time on cash benefits than they are today. That is, in fact, the ambition. It may well be that everyone shares that ambition, but if you do not want to put action behind it, it is of no use. And I can only say quite quietly that the total number of cash assistance and training recipients has increased more or less constantly since the financial crisis and that it has continued to increase in 2015, despite the fact that employment has increased over the last two years. So more jobs are being created, but this group is permanently too big.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134238	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134240	That is true, there have been more on cash benefits, among other things. because a lot of people have fallen out of the benefit system as a result of the cuts you made. In addition, I would like to ask the prime minister: if it really was such that the Prime Minister thought that the only purpose of this was to get people into work, and if you just took the money from them, they came to work, why cut sick people? Why should these severe cuts, which are going to mean poverty for a great many children in Denmark, hit people where case workers in the municipality have estimated that they are not able to work? Does the Prime Minister really think that it is possible to make sick people healthy by making them poor?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134326	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134328	Our cash assistance system is supposed to be a safety net. If you can't work permanently, it's not this service you have to be on. Let me make this clear. However, we have a real political conflict here, and I just find that quite quiet. For me, it's about fairness. It is about the single mother, who gets up every morning, bikes down to the supermarket to sit by the box all day, bikes back home and picks up children, that is to say have a livelihood from it, and that it has to be a livelihood that is bigger than what she could get if she didn't. That is my political starting point. In addition, the ceiling on cash benefits has been designed in a way also with regard to housing insurance and other forms of accommodation that make a small difference, i.e. that with relatively little employment you are able to move out of, among other things. some of the problems you get if you have zero employment in relation to housing security. It is about encouraging people and motivating people to take a job in a situation where employment is increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134452	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134501	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for standing firm here on the last question. On TV 2 last night there was an example of a single mother with two children who paid out, I think it was DKK 19,400. a month after tax. I think it is a great surprise to a great many people that these are the figures we are talking about. It is important that we bring these things forward. Again, it was in an excellent and, I think, open-minded discussion with Joachim B.. Olsen that the debate had been reversed. It's really, really important that we put these things in place, and fairness is actually the right word. That's what the PM used, too. Then I would like to thank you for inviting us to the debate on what we can do in connection with the other broadcasts on TV 2 on the Imams, etc. First of all, I also note and would like the Prime Minister's confirmation that precisely when such a discussion is invited, we are also there where we are now openly discussing whether we should look at the conventions in a different way. Can we discuss opening the conventions? As the Prime Minister himself said, it may be the problem that there are some fundamental rules, whether it be the constitution or the conventions, as all too often, one has a sense of, at least, end up preventing us from doing what one intuitively wants to do. So now we have an open discussion in this area too about how we should deal with conventions if they stand in the way of doing what is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134630	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134633	Thank you. I also saw that feature on TV 2 News yesterday, but should not comment on it any more, because one has to be very careful about starting with something that is anecdotal or that is just one case, although I was delighted that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen had prepared himself so thoroughly for the interview that he had in fact also revealed a possible way out of the cash assistance for the person concerned, but this did not appear attractive in the situation, one had to understand. In relation to the second question, I would like to say that the government's starting point will be that we must respect the constitution of the country, that Denmark is a rule of law, that we are bound by the international commitments we have entered into. That is our starting point. And it is on this basis that we invite to challenge the borders. Now you have to be careful what you say, but law in my optics is not in this way a hundred percent exact science, and I can at least recall in my own short political life situations where things that have been put forward were first encountered with the fact that this is problematic, for example. in relation to the constitution, and that after a closer analysis it has turned out that it was not. At present, the rules we have adopted in the Danish Parliament to postpone the right to family reunification to three years, when it was probably the case that had been asked years ago, the process risk would have been assessed differently by saying 3 years rather than 0 years or 1 year. So our approach is that there is, like, an edge called the constitution and conventions in the clear starting point, and then you have to try to challenge it. Do I have to stand here and rule out completely that there may be some proposal that has such broad political support that if one can identify, like that, that there is one clear consequence here, that is to say that one has to take a proactive decision and that one then refrains from doing so beforehand? I'm not gonna do that because it's not with the mind that I'm going into this job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134837	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134841	At least one thing is certain: there are a great many areas where it is clear that we will have to go back in to look at what we can do, that is, what can we do in terms of targeted monitoring. General monitoring is not very good, and it is not very good in a liberal democracy, but with regard to targeted monitoring I would say: yes, thank you on the part of the Liberal Alliance. The discussion about tax rebates for religious religions is also an obvious thing to tackle after some of the things that came out in the broadcasts that we have seen. With regard to the tax-financed integration projects, if some of them are used as a kind of cover-up in relation to the terrible way in which these imams act in Danish democracy, it is also something that needs to be addressed. I suppose there is also the discussion about what the rules are in relation to having to make premises available. In fact, we already know it from the Department of Justice, and I would like the Prime Minister to confirm that there is also going in to investigate what kind of imams are going to work here, what the background is, what they have preached in the past, and do some sort of screening. Is this something that we should also go in and look at, that is, how we do it in relation to the imams that come to Denmark? How can we do some screening in this area? Is that the kind of thing we can discuss? ?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134952	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315134954	I'd love to, because I don't rule anything out in advance. What is going to be the task is to make boundaries that are so objective that they work without violence on rights, and that is what we have to look at, and if it was easy, you could just do it. I have great sympathy for this idea of preaching in a language that we all understand. It makes sense. Can one simply say that only Danish can be preached in Denmark? What is the position of the Church of England, the Swedish Church, the Norwegian Church? Just to mention one problem. That is why we need to go a little further, and I am not in a position to give the answers here today, but I can only see that we have reached a level of threats to our democracy, which means that we cannot just say that because there is a problem with the Norwegian, the English, the German Church, what do I know, we refrain from doing anything. Are there other ways to achieve the same goal? That is the work we need to get started, and I do not rule out anything in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135120	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135122	Again, I would like to thank you for not ruling anything out in advance. I think that is very important in relation to the discussion that we need to get going. I just have two more examples of something that could be addressed and that would be relevant, I think. So, what are generally the rules for residence permits for religious ministers? Where can we tighten up here, so that those who come here come with good intentions, and not with • to put it that way, bad intentions? Another element that goes beyond the issue of ministers is the rule of citizenship. How can we tighten up on that? Is there any possibility, and I suppose it is something that has been such a no-go until now to deprive people of citizenship if they have first got it? In other words, can we begin to discuss declarations that must be signed when you acquire your Danish citizenship and that, if you break those declarations, you can be deprived of citizenship? These are at least two things that we, too, from the Liberal Alliance, would like to address in the discussions that are coming and which I also hope will be welcomed even if they are in the ears, in terms of how we normally think about, for example. citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135227	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135229	Well, I note with great satisfaction the wealth of ideas and look forward to listening to the suggestions and seeing them presented in line with other parties' proposals and again with the starting point of getting things tested on what their effect is in reality and not only symbolically, and what the difficulty is about to put them through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135251	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135301	Thank you. I'm gonna focus on something a little bit different from what we've been talking about so far. It's because I want to share an experience and an assessment with the Prime Minister, and I'm excited to hear what the Prime Minister's assessment is of what I'm about to say. For the first time in my life, and I am 61 years old after all, I have the feeling that what is happening in Europe and what is happening in the world can go completely, totally wrong! And that is, of course, because one crisis is queuing after another and they are reinforcing each other. I am thinking here of increasing global inequality; I am thinking of conflicts close to Europe's borders in relation to Putin and Russia and the way he acts; I am thinking of what is happening in Turkey; I am thinking of the destabilisation of North Africa and the Middle East; and I am thinking of massive flows of refugees. And I look at a Europe and an EU that lacks leadership or at least has difficulty taking leadership. On top of that, we are faced with a climate crisis, which is, of course, the greatest challenge and where the last figures from NASA say that we have reached an emergency situation. And in a way, we are in a politically perfect storm where all these crises are reinforcing each other and making each other worse. What we see then is that the individual countries of Europe are pulling themselves into themselves. We see that attempts are being made to create local solutions to these challenges. And I am genuinely concerned that the European Union that we know today does not exist in a few years' time. That is the concern I have, and that is the threat picture I see that we must deal with as politicians, including here in Denmark. And I would like to hear: how does the Prime Minister view these challenges? What kind of threat does the Prime Minister see today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135518	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135520	Thank you. I can easily follow that analysis a bit along the way, but fortunately there's another side of the same coin, because you can get very depressed when you listen to this. And if you look at the world over the last generation, you also see a world where infant mortality has fallen; where the number of people living in absolute poverty has fallen; and where millions of people are brought out of poverty and into a better life. It is a world in which a climate agreement was recently concluded in Paris, which is historic in that not only the industrialized countries must take on a commitment, but a wider global responsibility is recognised. So it's just to perhaps nuance the picture that everything is about to collapse and it doesn't stand our time. Having said that, I fully agree that not least Europe has been challenged at the moment, after a period and we are almost of the same generation, when we thought, in relief from the fall of the Berlin Wall, that now it was just for all of us that peace and democracy were growing all over Europe. We have reached out to Russia, we have worked together and created trade relations, we have believed in growth and democracy, and then a setback has come. There is the threat and challenge of migratory flows due to an Arab Spring, which froze again, Syria etc. I now choose to be hopeful and confident. So, I fully recognise that Europe is acting slowly, but Europe is acting. I see a rise in realism just in the short time I myself have been Prime Minister here in the second round. From the very first summits I was sitting in, where there was such a little laissez faire attitude to this refugee and immigration situation... wir schaffen das, it was said that there is now a broad recognition that something must be done. Small steps are taking, but it is difficult to see the alternative, because we are a Europe of 28 independent countries, which must therefore collectively achieve recognition, share an analysis and act on it. But I now choose to be a little more hopeful than the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135742	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135744	Well, the Prime Minister knows me well enough to know that I'm actually always trying to take a positive view of the challenges. And of course that is also why it matters to me that I can feel that the seriousness that I also describe has really made a great impression on me. Over the last week, I have talked to good colleagues around Europe, and it paints the same picture. And some of it, like they... is deeply concerned about the populism and right-wing nationalism that we see gaining ground in very, very many countries. There were elections in Germany this weekend, and again we see a right-wing party getting surprisingly strong support. We see it in Poland, we see it in France, we see it in Italy, we see it in Italy, that is, enormous support for certain positions which we almost have to go back in history to see accordingly. The leader of the German right-wing party, Alternative für Deutschland, said only a few weeks ago that it should be okay to shoot illegal immigrants if they crossed the border with Germany. So what does the Prime Minister think should be done in relation to the kind of political consequence of the challenges we see in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135903	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315135905	Well, I very much agree that we have a challenge with people's legitimate concerns raising easy and also easy solutions in a number of situations. The only response we have against it, I think, is seriousness, that is to say, to make people fully responsible for what they are proposing. It is precisely in this light that I invited all the parties a moment ago to the work that I am now going to set in motion. Because I can also see that in the debate, including at home, it can sometimes move a little quickly • a quick microphone across the table: what are you going to do? I'm gonna close, and I'm gonna throw out. Then come those solutions that are to understand emotionally and intuitively, but which at least one has to think through fully in all their consequences: well, where does it leave us if we just resort to the easy solution? There I think we all mentioned no one, no one forgotten • need to insist on a greater gravity, a greater seriousness in the political arming. And that's one of them. In that light, you have to see the initiative I took before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140022	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140025	I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said here, and I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on the pragmatic and serious tone in which the Prime Minister answered the questions raised earlier in Question Time. I mean, it really makes me happy. So that's where we're completely in line with each other. The last question comes, as usual, from the members of the Alternative, and they are, after all, very concerned about the COP21 agreement and how we maintain the level of ambition and achieve it. The question is how the Prime Minister will ensure that Denmark and the EU take the steps needed to meet the COP21 objectives. Then I have a little extra question: does the Prime Minister, with the reports that came from NASA as recently as yesterday, make an impression on us that we are actually in a climate emergency? Never has climate temperature been higher, and it is as if that debate is disappearing in some perhaps very close and very urgent problems. But that is the fundamental discussion and challenge we face from the point of view of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140135	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140137	Thank you. We also had that discussion very briefly, the last time we saw it here, and in the meantime I have uncovered it and can now state that it is the Minister for Climate and Energy who is taking part in the signing ceremony in New York. What is then asked, I will not be able to answer in the context of the time available. Perhaps I also think it would be appropriate to take the dialogue with the Minister for Climate and Energy in particular. Because there is a challenge here between being an independent country, Denmark, up against the Paris Agreement and seeing the fact that we are part of the European Union, which, as such, is the object of taking on these climate commitments, which will then have to be distributed to the countries. And, as I am told, at the moment there is no crystal clear road map on how these obligations are addressed by the European Union. I want to be a part of it, because it has to be pursued. I myself have the overall view that an EU that has pressed for a global climate agreement must also be measured by the ability of collective bargaining, not country by country, but collectively, to deliver on the commitments it has entered into.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140255	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140304	To bridge it, sir. Uffe Elbæk said, I also think that there is a lot to worry about, but I really think that the relevant political dividing line that emerges is whether, based on the challenges we really face, we are on the side of fear or whether we are on the side where we believe in and maintain the hope that we can actually take our own destiny into our hands and make a difference for future generations, even if the challenges are towering. It is also in that spirit that I will respond to the Prime Minister's invitation, because what I hear is a request for real solutions that can make a difference out of the real world, not symbol politics and Christiansborg fnides. I do not quite know whether I think that the discussion has necessarily reflected it all the way through, but I shall not judge it; but I just want to say that if that is what this is all about, then we are very interested. I am not convinced that all problems in society are best solved with three readings in the Folketing and a new legislation. There are many forces to join in the struggle for democracy and against the darkened voices. I think we need to find ways to support them and, as I said, I am not sure that it is laws and paragraphs that are needed, but perhaps one of the finest things we have in Danish tradition and history, namely public education and education. But let us at last discuss it. Then I would also like to dwell a little on the fact that some of what gives hope and faith in a better future is when children get a good start in life. One of the PM's recurring answers to the question of the ceiling on cash benefits has been that it was a promise made in the election campaign, that is to say that a ceiling on cash benefits would be introduced. But there was also another promise made by the Prime Minister in the election campaign. It was kind of in the heat of the fight, but I guess it counts anyway. That was the promise that we would not pursue a policy that brought families with children below the poverty limit that we had introduced under the SR government, and that is why I would just like to ask the Prime Minister: is that true today? Does it also apply to the families affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, namely that, despite the abolition of the poverty line, this government will live up to the promise made by the Prime Minister to Denmark's children that it would not pursue a policy that brought people below the poverty line of the then government, as the words fell?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140513	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140515	First of all, a receipt for the receipt. I think that is a very precise description of what is at least my own intention of the work being undertaken. I do not think that one gets far if one clearly stands only on the side of fear or on the side of hope. I believe that we need to take our starting point in the realism that characterizes things where there is something hopeful, and also something that looks fearsome. But I am not looking for symbolism; I am looking for something that works. After all, in relation to the poverty line, we do not recognise the way in which the former government excelled in poverty. In our opinion, this was an excessively square way of calculating it, which also brings in people who, therefore, temporarily just have no economy: self-employed people, people who are somewhere in their education, where hope is just about to turn on. Then I think I said that we would not propose any tariffs that in themselves brought families below the border with which the previous government worked. Nor is it my impression, as I am told, that this happens with what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140638	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140640	Well, thank you for the investigation. I am well aware that we have a disagreement as to whether it is appropriate, regardless of all the nuances that might exist when you do such a job, to have some point of reference for whether or not poverty in our society is increasing. We disagree on that, that's fair enough. But that does not change the promise made by the Prime Minister to Denmark's children, namely that the policy one would pursue would not bring families of children below the limit set by the then government. And I remember clearly how the words fell, so it is a yes-no question whether or not that promise, like the promise to introduce a ceiling on cash benefits, stands or does not stand. We must be able to answer that fairly clearly. I know that there has been a thorough analysis of what the effects are, and that is why I really think that we deserve a fairly clear answer as to whether that promise is still valid, so that we can test whether this is true in reality. Then I would just like to say that when we hear the debate today about what the money can be used for: the cashier mentioned by the Prime Minister in the past will not be richer or poorer by the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits for those on cash benefits. After all, it is only when the autumn comes and we have to discuss whether we can find ways to lighten the tax at work, that we can really make a difference, and there I certainly hope that the ambition is greater than getting money out of the pockets of the most disadvantaged families of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140759	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140801	I would be delighted if the Radical Left, too, in the autumn, would show up as a party and it is in this way my expectation that there will be a high level of ambition when it comes to creating more growth and more prosperity in our society, by also giving people with small incomes the opportunity to keep a larger share of the money they earn, even because it is not easy. In other words, it will undoubtedly require difficult decisions to be taken, because we are in a situation where the foundations of our economy have gone on a number of points. And that is not a reproach to the previous government; it is just a statement that, for example, we have. Now we have to adjust the contribution from North Sea oil down by 9 billion. kr. Just since the change of government. So the contribution there was, at more than 1%. GDP has fallen to nothing. Some other challenges could also be mentioned, for example. the migration and refugee crisis. So there is a clear need for us to have decisions of greater severity in 2025 if we are to secure resources both for the development of welfare and for the expansion of wealth through tax relief. Then I didn't get the answer to the first question, and I apologize. But it blinks red, and I think there's one trip left, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315140923	There will then be a chance to give the children of Denmark the answer they need. Is the promise still in effect or not? I would also like to say that when I spoke out a year ago in favour of making real reforms that would create the basis for us to significantly change how much we tax wage income in Denmark, I think the Prime Minister said at that time that this was such a form of radical masochism. We have among other things. discussed the retirement age. I would just like to say that if the ambitions do not go beyond the ceiling on cash benefits, which is intended to finance tax cuts, then that is roughly DKK 10. a week, if the employment allowance is intended to be reduced. I don't know how much difference it makes. We must, of course, be careful to say this, especially in Question Time. But I just want to say that it is nothing, I think, that really changes the world's course. However, it does so for the 30,000 cash aid recipients affected, who are now being hit by the ceiling on cash benefits, and so I would just like to say that I hope that the ambitions are greater than what we have seen with the ceiling on cash benefits when it comes to providing revenue for tax relief. On the other hand, I would say that one owes an answer to Denmark's children. There is no point in pursuing a policy that brings children into poverty. It creates neither hope nor faith in a better future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141036	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141038	But my autumn ambitions go a long way. Unfortunately, it is not a hundred per cent decisive matter, just how far my ranks have to be, because there have to be 90 mandates that have a correspondingly high level of ambition. I choose to take a positive view of this dialogue and as a signal from the Radical Left that we also saw it in the future, just as we saw it historically when we made the pre-retirement reform and the unemployment benefit reform, is part of the team that would like to try to create a greater room for manoeuvre in what is referred to in a headline as reform decisions. If I am to interpret it that way, I think it is positive. On promises, I would say that what I said in the election campaign was up against people who wanted to draw a completely misrepresented picture of what we wanted with this cash aid ceiling. We are fully committed to what we said, and we are fully committed to what we have put forward and which is, moreover, under discussion in the Chamber today and on Thursday. We believe that this is fair on all dimensions, including in order to pursue what is our aim: to ensure greater social mobility, so that no child can grow up with parents on cash benefits for a lifetime or throughout their childhood. That is our ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141200	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. There is a bit of unrest down here, especially on the right side of the House, but we need to be able to hear the Prime Minister and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141209	Well, I would also like to thank you for the Prime Minister's invitation. The SF is happy to come because I agree that the time is now. We are currently in the situation that last year we gave 10,000 asylum seekers a stay, and we will also be giving many people stays in 2016 and 2017 if the war in Syria does not end, and that does not seem to be right around the corner. So we have to tackle the challenges that come with it now, because otherwise we will repeat the sins of the past. We can see that the challenges have not only been there in connection with the revelations made by TV 2 in the Mosques behind the veil, but that this is something we have known about for so many years as the Prime Minister says: also in his own previous reign. It's not something that's solved with easy fingertips. I grew up in the West region myself, and I must admit that some of what I have experienced in Ishøj, where I have been in high school, is that there are women who do not speak Danish, who are not part of Danish society and who are kept at home and are under strong social control. Now we have young women who grow up in Denmark and who in the same way experience that they are not allowed to go to camp school, that they are not allowed to go out of the way if there are boys involved and that they are not allowed to take part in sex education and many other things. This means that we really experience that we have two communities in Denmark. Of course we will not accept that in any way whatsoever, and we will not accept that young women are placed under strong social control. So I think that what is really the big task is to back up the many moderate Muslims who exist in Denmark who would like to break up with this, but who do not have the support or the help that we really should provide by making a wise integration policy. We have played out a great deal of proposals over the last few weeks, and it is not meant to be teasing; it is meant to be serious because we believe that it must be symbolic policy and signal policy that must be shelved. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what, for example, we are doing. must do at primary school. The Folkeskole is the largest democratic institution we have. This is certainly one of the areas where we can solve some of the problems. It could be at a ceiling on the number of bilingual pupils; it could be by having sex education down in the 3rd-4th class, where you also teach more modern family compositions • just as some of the elements. It's not solved with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141431	Yes, please. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141434	Thank you. I am open to any discussion if it has a realistic starting point. And it's not to mess with any wounds, but it was for example. so that when we were in government last time, we defined ghettos, among other things. based on ethnicity, because we believe that next to all sorts of other challenges you can face about employment rates and crime and other things, there is also an element here that is about if for many people with a different ethnicity living together, then the language you typically experience is not Danish, etc., it also poses a challenge. That was not politically correct, and I had to note that the government that came after mine changed the criteria and watered them down more. I am therefore delighted that the SF is now joining this debate, because I regard that proposal on primary school as an expression of it. So, it is of course not to point the finger at anyone because they have a certain ethnic background, but it is a realistic realization that if there are too many together, the possibility of being brought up with a Danish culture is less than if there were fewer together. So do the best by going into the near residential environments to say to the children: You should no longer have any closeness to the school. You're gonna be busted to the other end of the municipality, so the social network you're building up with playmates and stuff isn't one you can bring home in your leisure life? I am very, very reluctant to do so. In other words, I think that a better solution lies in getting the regions and urban communities that have become too homogeneous in the wrong way. So it is the school district that we must try to make sure has a more multicultural background than the school that lies in the school district. But this is one of the discussions we can have with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141631	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141633	I think it is positive that this is one of the discussions we should have, because I think it is crucial that the primary school is the institution in which we should all meet all the way across. Whether you are social group 1 or social group 5, or if you are of other ethnic origin, we must meet across the board if we are to strengthen the cohesion of our society. I think that is absolutely crucial. I find it problematic when one in three children in Copenhagen is taken out of primary school and sent to free schools. Whether it's Muslim free schools or traditional private schools or Maoist small schools, or whatever it is, it's problematic for our cohesion. I therefore believe that we need to discuss how to strengthen primary school and I am willing to discuss it on the basis of ethnicity. We saw it in Copenhagen when we changed the limit of the take-up that Councilmandsgade School had, where they just changed the school district, instead of the whole Mjølnerparken came to Councilmandsgade School and Councilmandsgade School therefore had 86 per cent. by other ethnic origins. They changed it to half, so they only had 50 percent. That was one of the reasons why Councilmansgade School solved the problems better. But I haven't gotten stuck on one model. These may well be bus arrangements, as the Left in Aarhus has proposed by Mrs Louise Gade, or the other. I just want us to have an open discussion about how important primary school is when we have to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141753	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141755	I fully agree that primary school is a place that forms. The school is a place that shapes. We'd be happy to have this discussion. I think it might also be useful to open it to schools, by the way. It is also a work which the Minister of Education has set in motion and which can be drawn into what I am now inviting to do: I mean, what are the demands we make on the free schools so that we can make sure that children sent in, for example, are sent in. a Muslim school, not evaded information about what the basic values of this society are based on. There is also that discussion. I am very pleased that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that there may not be just one solution, because I think we should be reluctant to sit here in Christiansborg and, for example, in Christiansborg. dictate certain percentages or other things to be laid down over municipal government. It would probably be the case that the solutions that should work locally must also have local ownership somewhere. But can I see a problem in the fact that there is a huge concentration of children with a different ethnic background from Danish? Yeah, I can see a huge problem in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141911	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315141913	Well, I'm glad the Prime Minister is opening up this debate on primary school. I would think if I were to give the Prime Minister a good advice... you could end the Question Time by letting our Minister of Education take part in this discussion, quite clearly, in changing it. Because this is not just about primary school, it is also about, as the Prime Minister says, etc. Muslim free schools. At Nørrebro, in the northwest district, there are 18 Muslim free schools, and I have heard terrible stories about free schools about everything from physical punishment to strong social control, and about not having sex education, and that is, in fact, mandatory in our common school. And I think that is a discussion we have to take, that is, how we do it with supervision and how we do it with control, so we make sure that it is not the case that you can turn your children out of our common primary school to make sure that they get further away from Danish values. I believe that Danish values are inviolable, and I think that is important that we also ensure this through our school system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142018	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142020	Well, I very much agree with that, and perhaps one of the paradoxes I began with in my first speech shows that. We have a long free school tradition, which dates back from Grundtvig and Kold, with marked freedoms for schools, which is based on the fact that we have this unwritten contract in our society that you use the degrees of freedom for something that benefits your child, that is, that gives your child a backpack full of values and knowledge that can be used to commit yourself in Danish society with freedom and freeness and equality. Then we suddenly find that some people are using those opportunities to fill something completely different in the school bag, and that is a huge problem. We must attack that, but we must attack it wisely, because we must attack it in a way in which we do not suddenly add them to all well-functioning free schools with control and bureaucracy, but direct it to the right place. That's what makes this so difficult, so that what seems easy control, control, control, or whatever it might be, has a difficulty when you go more practically to work. But that's what we need to start. The good advice I intend to follow and it would be the case that the ministers who are relevant to this debate will take part in this series of meetings, and that is also the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142143	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who is the last in the duel with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142152	Thank you. There are many things we could discuss at this time. We could talk about negotiations on environmental compensatory measures, with great attention being paid to whether we are talking about an additional package, a natural package or an extended nature package. We believe that nature doesn't give a shit about all of this. The most important thing is that we do something and get some action beyond the current nature package. We have no doubt about that. We could also talk about the law of plans and the need to protect our coasts, but that we also use our common sense to a greater extent when it comes to growth and development. But now, with his introduction, the Prime Minister has made it a little easier to be a questioner today. I would like to sign for the introduction that our values are under pressure and that we should act on it instead of talking about it. There is a lot to be done. I just want to sign for the PM's approach to it. We look forward to the negotiations. So thank you for that. It then makes it possible to talk about something quite different, namely, tax. You never have to miss a chance to do that. One of the greatest societal challenges we have today is that there are far too few people who take pride in being on their own. That system is simply not long-lasting. We can see that economics and demography simply make it impossible to continue along the path we are going down. We believe that we can create an even better Denmark if we focus on creating security for all Danes and creating opportunities for those who respect hard work. But that requires fewer people meeting the state with demands and expectations. We want a showdown that everyone, regardless of needs, needs help from the state. It also requires that we let the Danes keep more of their own money and allow them to create their own lives. So I would actually like to start with one, I think, easy question to the Prime Minister, namely whether he believes that we have a tax burden which today causes people to lack motivation to go to work and to make an extra effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142402	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142404	I agree that we have fiscal challenges. That is also why we have said very clearly in the government base that we want to make a two-part job reform. The first part is what is then being discussed this week, namely the issue of the ceiling on cash benefits, which is on top of the integration benefit, which has saved Danish society 2 billion. kr., which in 2020 would be missing out in the municipalities, or where it had to be if we hadn't made it. It is certainly a very specific place where a change of government has meant that there is something more to make welfare for than there would otherwise have been. The second part is then targeted tax relief, which we will look at in the autumn. So I agree. We've done a couple of tax reforms. It was back in 2009, when we were last in government, and it was also with the previous government. But it still leaves away for many people • after my best memory well in the order of approx. 110,000 people who do not have a great financial incentive to work. I would like that figure to be brought down. So I agree that this is part of the answers to the challenges facing Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142510	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142513	Thank you. I'll put the flybones at the first. We agree. It's such an elderuse). No, it's not a rustle. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister thinks that we have a transparent tax system, whether it is easy for the Danes to fill in their tax returns, or whether we should try to work towards finding a much simpler system with fewer deductions and lower taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142540	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142543	I don't know. It is certainly easier than when I made my own debut on the labour market, where it was 10-12 pages and had to be filled in with a pen and had to get up past the municipality's mailbox. Now there is what I think we can in many ways be satisfied with, a digitalised system with, when it works, a good dialogue between taxpayers and the tax administration, and a system that I really think is relatively clear, given that the rules behind it are complex. I have to say that. Just to vote the violin correctly, so that I do not go into such an eel trap that the tax is a problem and that, if it is to be simpler, we must have a flat tax, then I would say that our ambition in the current working year is not to enumerate the Danish tax system. It's not. It is based on recognizability because even though the rules are complex, I think the Danes still have a sense of something about where they stand, when everything is combined with house and car and wage income and share income and other things to make the adjustments that need to be made so that the benefits of working, especially for people with small labour incomes, are increased. At any rate, I am more concerned about this at the moment than some idea that one might have, if one started with a blank piece of paper, to make it all much, much simpler. Because it will turn out that in simplicity lies the entire complexity. In other words, if you just make such a simple solution, there will be people at risk of having a proper ride.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142720	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142723	Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister for bringing flat taxes on the field, but we can always discuss that in more detail. Then I'd like to ask about something else. There's a lot of taxes you can start with. There's no limit to what you tax in this country. One thing is that we also have a death tax. It's very Danish that we tax people all our lives, and when they're dead, they're just gonna get an extra hug. It is amounts that have already been taxed. I saw through the daily press a proposal, one must understand, from a party here in the Danish Parliament to raise the inheritance tax in order to build cheap housing. We have another solution. In other words, we do not think that amounts that have been taxed once should be taxed any more. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister can see an opportunity for us to work towards the fact that what we are not going to have in Denmark, however, is a death tax, that is, a death tax, and that we will have it abolished as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142822	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142824	After all, everything is a matter of prioritising, and if I have to choose between giving priority to something that brings joy in life and something that brings joy in death, then after all I will choose life and put it first not that one excludes the other. As far as attitudes are concerned, I agree with the fact that a very heavy inheritance tax poses some challenges, not least for family-owned companies, and that is actually why we have taken responsibility together for creating a financial law agreement where we are starting to do something about it. Would I want more? I could do that in principle. Is that where my main priority is? No, because we're gonna start somewhere else. What I think is most important right now and here, at this stage in Danish history, if you cannot do everything at once, is to do something more for those people who have a relatively small income and who are allowed to keep too little of it compared to those who are on passive support. That's my main priority. Then we have clearly stated in the government base that we can also see that there is a problem a little further up the income scale, not least in relation to those positions which are internationally competitive. Does that mean the money's gonna be more than that? That's what autumn exercises have to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315142949	Thank you. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143022	There are the following announcements before we proceed to votes: From a member of the Folketing Kirsten Brosbøl, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 19 March 2016 she can again give a meeting for Things. There are today the following reviews: Henrik Dahl (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ownership of buildings for universities). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of citizens with a disability, etc.) Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 87 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the social and economic situation of artists). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a Commission on Freedom of expression). Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 89 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the return of the priority contribution to the municipalities). Kim Christiansen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 90 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the transfer of regional railway infrastructure and responsibility for regional railway operations to the State). Benny Engelbrecht (S), Rune Lund (EL), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Hasteforskning nr. F 26 (Will the Minister explain how the re-priority contribution from the municipalities is planned to be used in 2017 and forward, and how are the municipalities expected to translate the resulting savings?). Titles on the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Søren Pind) has informed me that, pursuant to Paragraph 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, he has been informed by the Minister for Justice (Søren Pind). 4, wishes to give the Folketing a written statement on the administration's application of coercive measures and disclosure obligations to criminal justice. R 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143203	Then we move on to the agenda. Are there any objections to furthering these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143243	Maja Panduro (S) has applied for leave from 19 March 2016, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 3 (a) whereas Stine Brix (EL) applied for leave from 29 March 2016, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143322	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials I have received the recommendation that the first deputy of the Østjyllands Storkreds, Male Larsen, should continue his duties as a temporary member of the Folketing, now on the occasion of Maja Panduroen's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of Enhedslisten in Nordjyllands Storkreds, Peder Hvelplund, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 29 March 2016 on the occasion of Stine Brix. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143358	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 110 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143422	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 30 by Dan Jørgensen (S), Marcus Knuth (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). A vote can be taken. In favour of 64 (S, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 23 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 30 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 29 by Søren Espersen (DF) and V 31 by Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143525	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The first proposal for adoption is No. V 27 by Bjarne Laustsen (S), Pia Adelsteen (DF), Erling Bonnesen (V), Carsten Bach (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). A vote can be taken. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 27 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 26 by Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Christian Poll (ALT) and Ida Auken (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143624	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 28. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143709	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143734	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 34 (V, LA and KF), against 76 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143800	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143826	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315143845	Thank you very much. The Danish People's Party and the government will get 700 more to work and make sure we all get 16 DKK. more in tax relief per month before tax. How do they do that? Well, they cut the benefits of the help recipients, because then they will get to work, the government and the Danish People's Party believe. The minister also says that 70%. of all those who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are not ready for work. That means they're not ready to take a job. They may be ill, they may be disabled or otherwise unable to take a job. But again, we take money from the sick, they'll probably get started. That must be the conclusion of the Danish People's Party and the Left. We have been through a long process in committee and it is quite clear to everyone: there will be more postponements and more homeless people, there will be more poor families and there will be many disabled people who will be affected by this bill. But if you ask the Minister if there will be any further postponements, that is the answer: I do not judge that. Despite the fact that the National Association of Municipalities is convinced, despite the fact that the housing companies and other organizations are convinced, the Minister evaluates something different. After many answers, many consultations the bill thus builds on gut sensations and assessments. After all, we cannot base our legislation on gut feelings or personal assessments. We must therefore have the facts on the table • clear evidence that this will not create more homeless people and hit the sick and the disabled. Everyone with experience says the opposite of the Danish People's Party and the government • those who own the houses, i.e. the housing companies; those who are in contact with the unemployed, i.e. the social workers; and those who face the challenges of local politics, namely the municipalities. Everyone believes that there will be more postponements, but the Danish People's Party and the government reject. They would rather legislate according to gut feeling than listen to those who know something. The bill will mean that a married couple who are deaf and who cannot get a job because, according to the Minister for Social Affairs, there are a lot of prejudices out there that make them unable to get a job, because the 225-hour rule has to hand in the one's cash aid. This means for Lonnie, who is a single parent with children, a woman who is born with spastic paralysis in the right half of the brain, who does not always know her children if she meets them on the street and who has been in 15 work tests and 25 years on cash benefits. These stories must make an impression. Kristian Thulesen Dahl must explain why he and the Danish People's Party don't care about this and vote for this. In the light of the facts on the DF's website, it says: "Our members of parliament as well as our members of the region and members of the council around the new municipalities are constantly working to improve conditions for the elderly, the sick and the disabled. The Danish People's Party should vote against this proposal and against the red block amendments. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said to the annual meeting of the Danish People's Party in 2015: There are disabled people who do not experience the help they need in everyday life and the understanding they should meet. We can all get better there. That's where I'd like to say to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Is it to take money from you, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's help and understanding of these people? The DF's website states that tax relief must never go beyond the social security of people who suffer from temporary or permanent cessation of employment without guilt. Dear Danish People's Party, how is this connected? I am deeply shocked that the Danish People's Party can agree to this. All the DFs, whom we could see said otherwise in the election campaign, and who indulge in the party of the weakest, buy without screwing this up without addressing all the sad and tragic examples seen in the media and all the people who will be hit. But my wish, my call to all the DFs who are sitting in the Chamber today and who can make a difference, is that they will vote against the cash aid ceiling and do what they said in the election campaign. We only need a single DF's... one DF's... then we'll avoid this bill. So I would very, very much hope that these DFs will vote for what the voters thought DF would do. I would like to propose and wish that the matter be referred back to committee, as there are still a lot of things that we would like to see clarified. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315144359	Thank you to the rapporteur. I had noted Mr. Christian Langballe for a brief comment, but that is not the case. Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315144414	Thank you. As one could also hear from the former rapporteur, the Danish People's Party is for some sort of exam today. Today, it has to be seen whether they can live up to their promises to take care of the weakest in society, at least a little, because now the Danish People's Party has the chance to vote in favour of some amendments from the Enhedslisten and the Socialists, which exempt the weakest and most vulnerable people from the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. I am thinking of thousands of long-term sick people who have other serious problems than the fact that they lack a job, people with chronic illnesses and disabilities, all those whom the municipalities have assessed as not ready for work. Unfortunately, however, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has already announced that they will not support these amendments, and so they have already failed, probably in the eyes of some voters. I would like to quote, with the permission of the President, a Danish People's Party voter who said on TV 2 The news yesterday: I feel totally screwed. Quote out. I understand that disappointment. For many years, not least during the previous government, the Danish People's Party has been leading itself forward as protectors of the weak. In the spring of 2015, DF's leader, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, issued firm guarantees not to cut benefits. But that is exactly what is happening. Housing support is drastically reduced, especially for single parents who are at risk of losing as much as DKK 36,000. per year, equivalent to about one third of their current available amount. People's cash benefits are reduced in connection with the 225-hour rule, either 1.000 or 1.500 DKK. a month and there are married couples who are at risk of losing the cash benefits of one party, i.e. 162,000 kr. a year. How does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually the electorate voters as the voter I quoted a moment ago? Will DF's leader reveal what he's responding to? And if he is not available himself, what is there to suggest that he is not, will DF's rapporteur reveal it? I also look forward to hearing what arguments the conciliation parties and the Minister actually have against the amendments tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Socialists. The conciliation parties and the Minister say that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are being introduced in order for more cash benefits recipients to get to work. At least that's the list we keep reading. But why on earth should the rules affect people who have already been assessed by the municipalities as not ready for work? There is no logic in that. There is, of course, the draft law as such, because there is basically no logic in the claim that the unemployed and the sick are going to work because we are taking some money from them. But right here, it's totally contradictory. The reason for the proposal is that more people are going to work, but the municipalities have already established that these people cannot work. Then why do they have to be punished? We have asked that many times. We haven't had an answer yet, maybe we can get it today. The Socialists have just proposed that the bill go back to committee. We fully agree with that. After all, things keep coming out that indicate that we have not got the full truth about the consequences of this bill. As recently as today, the National Association of Housing Companies has pointed out that the recipients of social security benefits in general housing in the metropolitan area lose much more than in the average calculations sent out by the Minister, which he thus takes the lead in. It must, of course, be fully unveiled before the draft law is adopted. It probably does not impress the rapporteurs of the bourgeois parties. They have also decided that the unemployed and sick people with disabilities must now pay for the fact that people in their own grade can receive even more tax relief. However, whatever the consequences, and I have asked a number of questions about this, which will also be raised in the further meetings we have today, about this bill. At any rate, it should not be said that the government and the conciliation parties were not warned when the consequences start to arise and when, unfortunately, we will have confirmation of the warnings from housing companies and local authorities and many more organisations that this bill leads to more delays, more poor people and more homeless people. In this connection, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Now he's gone too. Maybe there's someone else from the government. Maybe it was because they knew I was on the platform, and then they left. That is probably why, but then there is a responsible minister who may be able to answer. For the leader of the Radicals, Morten Østergaard reminded us here earlier this day of the Prime Minister's promise from the election campaign, where the Prime Minister said: '... I will never pursue a policy that brings children below that limit, that is, the poverty limit set by the then government. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, dear conciliation parties: if we can now, in the further examination of this bill, prove that it actually happens that there are children in families who fall below this poverty line, will we help the Prime Minister to live up to the election promise and amend the bill in accordance with it? I would very much like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315144953	I have to say to the rapporteur that even if quotes are used, it must still be in the language we have here in the Folketing, and you cannot get forgiveness in advance. No one wishes to speak, so we thank the rapporteur. But I didn't want to get out in quote-fuckers that's why). Then you have to find another quote, then you have to find another quote. The next rapporteur is Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145035	In the alternative, we would like to see the modern ceiling on cash aid removed completely from the table. We'd rather have cash assistance without counterclaims. Nevertheless, we have, of course, been involved in trying to exclude vulnerable groups from the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. This reform has a social battle page which has made it necessary to call seven consultations, a hearing, a question debate and three probably long readings in the Parliamentary Assembly and why so? Because it hits a very large group of the vulnerable, poor and sick people we have in Denmark. You deal with 150,000 people and put 30,000 people into cash aid. And why? To create 700 jobs. Fortunately, the centre-left parties have for the time being succeeded in excluding some of the most vulnerable groups with disabilities from the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. The work of the two major opposition parties, the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten, is to be commended for spending a great deal of resources on it. We also think it should be recognised that the government and the Danish People's Party have moved a little. We recognise them in order to reduce the damage they are doing with this legislation. But we are far from achieving it. There are many more people to be exempted because they do not have an earthly chance of finding work and should therefore not be put down in help. If we're gonna take it in big chunks, 75 percent. of the recipients of cash benefits, problems and challenges other than unemployment. This means that they have other problems, they need to be solved before they can take a job, and that again means that they are not directly susceptible to economic pressures or economic incentives, as it says. They just get poorer with the ceiling of cash aid, their children just get poorer, lots of people end up in poverty, impoverishment and misery without so we should exempt the 75%. cash benefits recipients who are not susceptible to economic pressure from the modern ceiling on cash benefits. Then we have the last 25%. of the recipients of cash benefits who can go directly to work, and of course they must also be exempted, because they want to work. In 2008, unemployment was down to 1.9%. This shows once and for all that people would like to work if there is work to be done within people's geographical and professional space. We do not need to force people to work, at least chasing people around for jobs that do not exist because we believe that unemployment is the fault of the unemployed. So let us continue this process until we have exempted all the people on whom the ceiling on cash benefits does not work, because then there is no one left in the target group, and then the ceiling does not matter. We want to help find the 700 jobs in another way. The Minister for Employment could have just asked for help in the Employment Committee to communicate 700 jobs from the start. In the alternative, we would like to help communicate jobs, and we would still rather be involved in creating new green and socially sustainable jobs. For us in the Alternative, the modern ceiling on cash aid has become a monument to the negative culture of our cash aid and employment system, where we abolish people's personal freedom and govern our fellow human beings with control and coercion. We have been confirmed by the fact that the employment area has been completely distorted from the outset. We are the country in the world where people have the most confidence in each other. We trust the police and the judiciary, the government and the public. We are world champions of trust. Yet we have a large area in our society where hundreds of thousands of people are governed by mistrust, coercion and control or so-called economic incentives. That is what we call unemployment. This has been the case for a long time, and many people almost think it has to be so. But we need to think new. Unemployment can affect all sections of the population, and it is probably common to all people, whether they vote for the DF, the Left or the Alternative, that they do not like to be deprived of responsibility for their own lives just because they have become unemployed. So as we fight side by side with the other centre-left parties against the social consequences of the cash aid ceiling, we are also working to build the future employment system based on trust, motivation and freedom. We will make it possible for people to retain responsibility for their own lives by allowing people to say no to offers that are not relevant to their way into society, offers that are not relevant to people's entry into the labour market. When we give that right back to people, we release billions of crowns that we use today to control each other, and some of them we need to use to make offers of job qualification, internship, personal development, courses, coaching so good that people accept, even if they are not forced to. To conclude, the alternative is against the entire modern ceiling on cash aid. We propose to exempt all target groups with which the ceiling makes no sense, that is. All of them. At the same time, we are building a system called cash assistance without counterclaims to restore the responsibility of the unemployed for their own lives. In this regard, we are holding a confidence parliament here at Christiansborg, where a large number of people across disciplines and beliefs are investigating how trust and not control and coercion can become a key resource in our cash assistance system. We must build an employment system in Denmark that is supported by trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145558	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145608	This bill, according to the Ministry's own calculations, has virtually no effect on how many people get jobs, but on the other hand it has a great effect out in reality in many people's lives. Sometimes it actually helps to push people if you want them to move, but it requires them to be able to conform to a new reality. But the majority of those affected are just not able to move out to a job. For them, there is only a future of poverty, apathy, discouragement and isolation. See, it fits well into the cherished bourgeois soul that you can't bear that people go home with money from the public. But when you think of the fact that the Danish People's Party in different contexts is trying to prove itself to be a party that should be bourgeois in a slightly different way, yes, we must say that if the party maintains support for this bill, you have shown that you are a citizen in a completely old-fashioned, reactionary way, in which it is the case that the people on top of your head who are at the bottom of society and on the edge of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145721	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145725	After all, the SF helped to make a cash aid reform when they were in government. Today a single person on cash benefits with two children after tax, that is, paid out, DKK 17,400. Is that an okay level, or should it be even higher according to the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145754	This bill is short on the fact that it is intended to reduce the conditions of approx. 30,000 people; 14,000 people are at risk of being evicted from their homes; a single mother with two children has reduced her monthly payout by 2,500 DKK. The medicine to get people into work, the medicine to help the companies that need labour, is education. That's the medicine, I guess, if the question is: How do we get more people into the labour market, and how do companies get the necessary qualified labour? But in other contexts the government also wants to make it more difficult to get close to it, namely by reducing education. The answer is that making people poorer does not bring them closer to the labour market, it does education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145840	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145842	Then it may be that I can now get an answer to the question I asked, which was a very, very specific question. Today, you are paid DKK 17,400 when you are on cash benefits. The SF has helped to adopt this. It's just like today's Should the amount be increased, or is 17,400 DKK. an appropriate amount to be paid when you are on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145911	This bill is designed to reduce the situation of those on cash benefits, and we are against this for good reasons. We were part of a settlement on cash aid, which contained a number of training policy measures that we supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145923	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145928	I almost think that the rapporteur should have one more chance of answering the question from Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen. If you take as a starting point the amount of money that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned, namely DKK 17,400, should it, if it is for SF, be set up, should it be put down, or should it just be the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145944	At the moment, we have no current proposal to set it up, but we are opposed to putting it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145950	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov? Then we move on to the next person who has a brief comment, and that is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315145958	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov beat me to it. I think that the rapporteur is carrying out the discipline of verbal backswimming for ug. So, what does the rapporteur really think about the question that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen asked the rapporteur before? In the SF you are good at standing on the platform and criticizing the government coalition, but when asked about your own political opinions, the answers hover a little in the wind. So this is another chance for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150021	This is then another chance for the questioner to get the answer. When people have to get closer to the labour market and when companies have to have access to skilled labour, the solution is not to make people poorer, because we risk ending up in discouragement, apathy and indulgence. The medicine is that you have to invest in education and that you can help people to work in that way. It's the only way. And the Ministry's own over-optimistic figures show that this whole huge exercise, which bothers the conditions of 30,000 people, brings 650 people to work. That shows that it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150103	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150108	What I am trying to ask is whether the amount of DKK 17 400 which, following the amendment to the law, will be effectively paid out is acceptable. After all, we are in a situation today where there are actually plenty of ordinary Danes who go to work, who work hard 37 hours a week and who collect any lower income. Therefore, it would be nice once and for all to establish whether SF believes that the payment of an amount of 17.400 good Danish kroner is too little, and if that is what it should be set up to. When you stand and oppose it, you must be able to come up with an amount that is more reasonable than what the parties in favour of the proposal are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150145	I'd like to confirm, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's experience that there are too many Danes who have to put up with far too low wages if that was the point. We have no proposal here and now to put these rates up, but we certainly have an intention to defend the levels that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150159	Well, then, sir. Jonas Dahl asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150203	I really think it's a little incredible that you should hear this svada that now comes from the bourgeois bloc, when you don't have, excuse the expression, the balls to go on the platform. Then the rapporteur could not just reflect on what is going on in the bourgeois camp? If you are not able to go up and speak at another reading of legislative proposals, what is it, then, an expression of? Is it not precisely that one is unable to defend one's own policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150225	I'll tell Mr. Knox. Jonas Dahl, you have to take care of your tone in here. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150229	I do not know, they have at least become somewhat metal tired in it over on the right side, in and with them right here could wake up and ask a few individual questions. But I do believe that those who have to answer for it in particular are those who have the longest distance between what they have said and what they are doing. I'm not wondering what you mean in the Left. One has evil deep into the cheerful bourgeois soul when people can go home on public support without being out to work, regardless of the fact that there may be a hundred good explanations that they are not. So I'm not surprised that it's connected and that it's rigorous. Where we have the opposite is of course in the fact that the Danish People's Party has covered its words with sugar to these vulnerable and vulnerable groups, but when it comes to the matter in here, is helping to reduce the conditions for these thousands of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150320	Then we thank the rapporteur and, as no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, we shall proceed to Mr Beazley's report. Benny Engelbrecht as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150335	Thank you, President. When I take the floor now as a privateist on this matter, it is as a financial rapporteur and a member of the Finance Committee, because it is the case that Bill L 113, which is being dealt with here, is part of the government's overall job reform. This is what is called job reform I in the government base and is therefore linked to job reform II. It is, of course, a context to which we in the Committee on Finance have been constantly interested and asked questions. In this context, there are also a number of questions that we have asked in the Committee on Finance, which are also relevant to this legal procedure. Specifically, in the Committee on Finance, I put six questions, one to the Minister for Employment and five to the Minister for Finance, all of which concerns the effects of job reform I, i.e. the ceiling on cash benefits, questions which it is quite natural to ask. Questions about the effects were also what we heard earlier in Question Time to the Prime Minister, where one was in touch, and which the Prime Minister thought could easily be discussed. However, it is difficult to discuss something when there is no answer to the questions in question, and I therefore find it very regrettable that we can now see that for four months now the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Finance have not been able to answer six questions, all of which relate to the effects of the ceiling on cash benefits. In other words, we are at second reading of L 113 without having received any significant answers to relevant questions. I am aware that these questions have been asked long before the draft law was tabled, but I had not imagined in my wildest imagination that one would be on an alm. Part-Questions should wait for answers for such an unusually long time. This in itself has led me, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, to complain to the President of Parliament and to the Bureau about this procedure. However, I have of course also asked through the committee secretariat when we can expect an answer to the Financial Committee's mandate. Question No 30, 75, 76, 77, 78 and 79, which states that at least one week will pass before we can get an answer. I hope, of course, that this is not correct. Now the Minister for Finance has left the Chamber, and for obvious reasons we cannot have his answer here, but I must ask the Minister for Employment to explain whether we in the committee and in the Folketing can expect answers to these relevant questions before the Folketing has to deal with the bill in the third place. I think it is totally unfair to the Folketing if that is not possible. So I would ask the Minister for Employment to come up here and explain whether this will be the case, and I can already state that if we cannot get a clear indication that we will have answers to these questions before the third reading of the draft law, we will of course have to convene both the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Finance in consultation with the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150720	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150726	I would just like to hear it from the Social Democratic Party: when a single mother on cash benefits today receives 17,400 kroner. So an acceptable level, or should it be higher? What does Social Democracy mean here? Is 17,400 kroner. an acceptable safety net in today's Denmark for a mother on cash assistance with two children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150802	I simply cannot understand that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has not taken advantage of the opportunity to ask his questions, since Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who is the Social Democrat rapporteur, was on the floor or, for that matter, did not ask for the floor as rapporteur. I would like to repeat what I have said: the reason why I have taken the floor is that the Parliamentary Finance Committee has not received an answer after four months' waiting time on a number of questions relevant to this bill. That is why I have gone to the platform to ask the ministers to come up here and explain whether we will have those answers before the third reading. And I can then ask that counter-question to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: Does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that it is reasonable that the Folketing should not receive answers to these questions? I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Joachim B. Olsen has read the questions and finds them relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150847	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150850	Of course you need answers in the Folketing when you ask questions. But now there is a Social Democrat on the platform, a Social Democrat who has chosen to come up here at second reading of this bill, and then I ask something, and one has to be able to answer that. Is 17,400 kroner. an acceptable level? It's a super simple question. I replied to the rapporteur's question and now the rapporteur can answer this question appropriately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150920	I repeat that I have not gone on the floor as rapporteur for the Socialists, but I am quite sure that the Socialist rapporteur would very much like to go on in the second round, so that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen will have the opportunity to put the question to the relevant rapporteur. Then you might consider taking out the gum on the same occasion, so that you actually listen and listen to what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150943	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315150948	After all, I have just returned to the honorable Parliament and had actually expected some changes to have taken place. But I can see that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht still takes away the platform as a privateist in time and early, I was just about to say. In order to respond to the rapporteur's probably counter-questions to what I would like to ask the rapporteur, I would like to say that, of course, questions must be answered which are put to the country's ministers. It is actually a funny curiosity that the first thing that happened when I was in the Danish Parliament last time was that more than 120 days went by before the Ministry of Employment, by the way, with the current chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who was able to answer questions we and other rapporteurs asked. So maybe there's some kind of system malfunction. But back to the point: Can it be true, and is it reasonable that a single mother with two children should be paid out $1,200? by the amendment of the law? If that is a reasonable amount, I would like to ask the rapporteur. It's a simple question, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151045	I shall leave it to our rapporteur to reply to that, but I would like to challenge a single issue in relation to what Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt raises the question of whether it is actually reasonable for us in the Folketing to have answers to questions. I'm actually incredibly glad that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt indicates, and I therefore naturally expect that we will not be able to adopt L 113 until the six questions I outlined have been answered, namely the answers to questions 3075, 3076, 3077, 3078 and 3079, in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151120	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151123	But since it is now a so-called fait accompli that the Folketing should have an answer to the parliamentary question, could the rapporteur not use the chair currently held by the rapporteur to inform the parliamentary parties of the position of the rapporteur's party? Last night there were several articles on news media that, under the heading "The Government must pay for the move of families," said that the Social Democratic Party believes that this legislation is so critical that more families must move and that the government must find money for it. Does the rapporteur think that with a payment of DKK 17 400? a month has to move from home and home on the basis of government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151200	I can certainly read out that a number of consultation responses indicate that there will be a number of problems in relation to postponements and relocations. I am quite sure that our rapporteur, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, would like to explain how many it is, but I must also point out that when we then have a mutual expectation that the government will, of course, respond to the questions that exist, we can also expect the support of the Left Group that we cannot finally deal with this bill until we have all the questions clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151229	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151232	I think that there is something rather paradoxical about going to the platform and complaining that there are no answers to questions and then will not answer questions themselves. It is also a new practice for me to stand on the platform and say: I will only reply to exactly what I wanted to say from the platform. Normally, when you go to the platform, you have to answer the questions you get. When you go to the platform to debate a particular bill, it is probably very reasonable that you should be asked questions about that particular bill. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht may not be able to speak on behalf of the Social Democrats, but at least he can speak as a privateist. So this is the sum of 17,400 kroner. a reasonable level, or is it not a reasonable level? This is a fairly important political issue, and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht must have an opinion on how high the level of benefits should be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151323	It is quite true that this is a relevant question, completely like the other questions that I have gone to the platform to make sure that the Danish Parliament gets an answer to are relevant. That is why I also know that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen goes to the platform in the second round. In other words, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who had the opportunity to ask this question in the first round and did not ask it, actually gets the opportunity to ask the question one more time. Then I would like to remind you that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also has the opportunity to come up here and make known what Conservatives really think about this proposal, including explaining whether Conservatives will support a postponement of the proposal until we have received an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151403	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151406	I would just like to say that we look forward to receiving answers from another rapporteur from the Socialist Group, if not Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht is able to answer this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151417	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Can I replicate?). Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151421	Thank you, sir. President. I just want to make it clear that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov will get all the answers he wants, but I also think it is fair that we leave it to the respective rapporteur to answer the questions, just as I naturally expect the ministers to come up here and explain whether we can expect answers to the questions put by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151440	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151448	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to say that I fully share the privateist's criticism that the relevant ministries have not responded to this bill. But what I would like to ask is whether the privateist can explain to me and to the rest of the Danish Parliament why the rapporteurs from the Left and the Danish People's Party have not been able to defend this bill and the far-reaching changes with which it is intended to intervene in the lives of the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151514	It has to be speculation when I have to answer that question. But, of course, my best bet is that even the rapporteurs of the reported parties have not been given an answer to the questions that we have put by the Committee on Finance, and it is of course difficult, when a matter is not fully explained, to actually explain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151534	Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151537	Yes, and just to clarify: does it not in particular surprise the privateist that the Danish People's Party does not go up and take the opportunity to speak, when it was said in such sharp terms before the election campaign that it was absolutely not going to agree to cut the benefits of cash aid recipients, and now we agree to that, and when we also know from the negotiations that they actually agreed to cut even more than was planned in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151605	That puzzles me pretty much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151607	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151610	Oh, my God, this is an embarrassing round. The rapporteur has just said that you cannot answer a question that has been asked here and then you answer a question from a member of the party. I mean, what kind of theater is this? At some point, we're gonna go upstairs and explain our position, but that's just an embarrassing theater, like mr. Benny Engelbrecht is performing. I mean, it's just too ridiculous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151638	In fact, I am very, very much in agreement with Mr. Christian Langballe in that it is extremely embarrassing that relevant questions are not answered. These aren't some we put back in November for fun. We have wanted to know what the link between job reform 1 and job reform 2 is in the Finance Committee. The fact that these questions have not been answered four months later, and we have been informed by the ministries, that it is not intended to answer the questions for a week's time, that is to say long after the third reading of this bill is over, is embarrassing. That's what I'm gonna give you, sir. Christian Langballe is absolutely right. The fact that then there are some rapporteurs who want to have answers to some questions that were not asked in the first place, where the Socialist rapporteur was up here, is quite fair. And that is also why the Socialist rapporteur will be taking the floor in the second round in a moment and will be giving Mr Giscard d'Estaing the floor. Christian Langballe and everyone else the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151736	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151738	Well, now you don't throw stones when you live in a glass house. And if you go up to the speaking chair of the Folketing and do not want to answer questions that sound like you, you should not criticise others for not giving answers. Well, I'm not right about that, sir. Benny Engelbrecht is the financial rapporteur? Isn't that right? Does the rapporteur have any position on this at all? Does the rapporteur know about this? Because if the rapporteur knows nothing about it, why is the rapporteur standing on that platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151816	I stand on this platform, I say to Mr. Christian Langballe, because there are six questions raised here in the Committee on Finance, but there is no answer to them. They are all concerned with the legislative proposal that we are dealing with now. Is that fair? No, it is quite unreasonable that we in the Committee on Finance should wait four months to get answers to some completely relevant questions that are also relevant to this legal procedure. In fact, there are other bourgeois parties that have made good sense, but it is so evidently irrelevant to Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151856	I understand there's a desire for another round. Nobody's gotten into it, but it looked like Mr. Knox didn't. Leif Lahn Jensen wanted the word in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315151916	Well, it's nice to be wanted on this platform. We have had the opportunity to ask questions before, but I would like to give it another opportunity. Sir. Christian Langballe said: if the rapporteur knows nothing about it, why is he standing on the platform? Is that why the Danish People's Party is here? Is it because the Danish People's Party doesn't know a honk about this bill? Is that why the Danish People's Party votes for something they don't know anything about? Is it because they trust the guts of an employment minister? Is that why the consultation yesterday was only one from the Danish People's Party, and that was the chairman of the Employment Committee, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe? There were no others from the Danish People's Party at that consultation. Isn't it obvious here that either the Danish People's Party doesn't know a thing about this proposal, or they're completely indifferent, just as they've always been when they hit these people, just like they were in the '00s, and just like they are now? And there I just have to say: please come up here on the platform; if the Danish People's Party is so interested in discussing, come up on the platform. I also noticed that Mr. Christian Langballe was very eager and also pressed himself into wanting to ask me questions, but no, no, he shouldn't, because the Danish People's Party would like to hold back a little. Because we're not gonna have a boring case on this, the Danish People's Party is thinking. Now you have the opportunity. I am ready to make myself available if the Danish People's Party would like to become wiser, because I am not for a second in doubt that the Danish People's Party can stay or that they might be interested in it a little. Because this is just not okay. You had all the possibilities when I stood here to ask, and you could just take them, and then you turn it into someone else. I look forward to questions being asked by the Danish People's Party. I look forward to the Danish People's Party coming up here. And I can tell you, I've got all day. At Aarhus Harbour we used the word pussies. I don't do that here, but that's definitely what I mean. Then I just have to say that the reason we're standing here and the reason we don't think this is okay is because you tried this in the '00s. In the 00s it turned out that there were more poor people; poverty increased when the Danish People's Party again sat at the helm with the Left. And then what happened when the Social Democratic led government just eliminated these poverty benefits? Then poverty fell again. And everyone except the Danish People's Party, except the Left, except the Minister's old employer, the Danish Employers' Association, says that people are getting poorer; everyone says that there will be more postponements; everyone says that there will be more homeless people. We ask questions, we go to consultations, we have questions debates. We are interested in an answer, but we have not received an answer. The Danish People's Party is not interested in anything at all. They are not even interested in asking for it themselves. I don't know how many questions have come from the Danish People's Party in this case, but that's probably not many. I just have to say that this shows, excuse me, that either the Danish People's Party does not care, or the Danish People's Party does not know what this is about. I just have to say again that it is as if the Danish People's Party has made a triple here: First you made the housing allowance, then you touched a little by a minus growth to the municipalities, and now you cut in the performance of these people, people who trusted so much in the Danish People's Party • disabled, sick, mentally ill. We watch them on television every day; we hear them on the radio. I have to say to my dear friends in the Danish People's Party: there are so many people out there who want an answer from the Danish People's Party and who think: Where is the party we voted for, what do they mean? We could see it in the election campaign, but it was so obvious then. How would I like the Danish People's Party to come up here so that we could also ask some questions, but unfortunately I do not think they dare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152322	There are a number of questions. The first is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152325	I think that the Socialist rapporteur is extremely provocative in the bad way; I have to say that. I think that is totally unacceptable behaviour. In addition, I must also acknowledge that I suddenly understand why there are so many Danes out there suffering from a disease called politicians. Because that is exactly what you will feel when you hear the Socialist rapporteur. Can the Social Democrats also confirm that we have discussed the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule in the whole bill behind this very thing, not only in the Folketing, but also in the Employment Committee? We're gonna have to, among other things. Today we have a fifth consultation in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on L 113, which we are discussing here, just as we are having a question debate on it today. So, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen can be safe and calm: We in the Danish People's Party, of course, go to the platform when there is a question debate about L 113, which we are discussing here. You can ask any questions you want, and we'll answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152440	I would like to make a small advertisement here from the platform: The question debate is coming very late tonight, and I think that the Danish People's Party has got that under control, because then there are not so many viewers watching. So that's probably why the Danish People's Party isn't coming up now. Politicians, they say. In the election campaign, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: When it comes to reforms, it is very often a matter of cutting people's benefits, early retirement, cash benefits, unemployment benefits, etc., and there we just want to make it crystal clear that we are not helping to cut people's benefits if that is what lies in these reforms. That's what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl before the election, and now they're cutting them down. I would say to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe: that creates politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152519	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152521	Well, then I can just say to Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen that what is said here is not true at all. For Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen wants to create a picture that we in the Danish People's Party have committed a breach of promise, and we have not. In the Danish People's Party we have just gone in and said that we want to reinstate a ceiling on cash benefits, the ceiling on cash benefits abolished by the SR government, which among other things. As a result, the number of non-western immigrants on cash benefits increased enormously. What is the task of integration that has not been promised by the Social Democrats? Stand by the mess you've made yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152600	What I can also tell you is that what actually happened was that the Government's desire to cut so sharply the benefits to single mothers and other things was not so great, but when the Danish People's Party came out of the negotiating room, it actually turned out that the amount available to these people had been reduced. So the Danish People's Party can also take on its cloak: that they have helped to reduce the benefits to single parents even more. It may well be that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe would like to defend this, but then I just think that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe should come up here and not wait until late tonight when everyone is asleep. Get up here now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152642	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152645	Now I am going to ask the question again, and this Socialist must then be able to answer that, since it is the rapporteur we have on the platform: does the rapporteur think that it is an acceptable level when you have 17,400 kroner? paid as a single person on cash benefits with two children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152718	What I want to relate to is not simple examples that come from different places. What I want to deal with is that there are very, very many people who are put in a difficult situation. There are so many people who become poor. And the Minister for Employment has said that 70%. of those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are not ready for work or ready for activity. This means that these people are being put in a very difficult situation. Thousands of people are put in a difficult situation because it is estimated that 700 people will get started and that we are drawing up such examples. I feel sorry for all these people who are really going to have a hard time in the future, and so do I. Joachim B. Olsen should have. I would also like to say that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has also surprised me positively, because at the time there was the case of Lonnie, a person who had a spastic paralysis on the right, and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen could see that she might not have been on cash benefits, he went out and said that she probably shouldn't have been, so Joachim B. Olsen showed himself from his good side too, and it was nice to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152823	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152826	I do that incredibly often. But now I would like a little substance into this debate. There's plenty of words. After all, this is about a level of cash benefits that is the substance of this debate: what should the level be? And the DKK 17,400 I mention here is not a simple example; that is what is the level if you are a single mother on cash benefits with two children. Then I would just like the rapporteur to reply to: is 17,400 kroner. an acceptable level? The rapporteur is now allowed to reply, because we are now talking about what this is about, namely what the level of cash benefits should be. Is 17,400 kroner. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152913	My answer to that is that the cash benefits that are now should not be touched. I don't want them up or down. The reason why this reform has been carried out with the Minister of Employment in the lead is precisely that you want work to be worthwhile. Nine out of ten Danes get more than 2,000 kroner. After tax by working. When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister from 2009 to 2011, there were 26,000 more people for whom it was not worth working, so I would say that we actually made a difference when we were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152949	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315152953	It is a pleasure to meet the rapporteur again. The Social Democrat rapporteur also seems strangely revitalized. I think it may be the name change that has given a little extra energy to the socialist policy of the last period, which seems forgotten with reforms and corporate tax reductions and minus growth in municipalities and such. We can always come back to that. Now Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen, my colleague, Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Joachim B. Olsen is a great service by saying that the Social Democrats did not want to change the level of cash benefits. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen: Do you think down at Aarhus Harbour that the people who are paid 17,400 DKK? a month, must call their Socialist rapporteur to say that they want 20,500 kroner. instead, as the level is today, even if they are not on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153041	I'd like to say that it's nice to see Mr. Simpson. Jakob Engel-Schmidt back again, welcome back. It is wonderful to discuss with the questioner again. I'd say I'm not a second in doubt that my good friends down there have a good red heart, and I'm not a second in doubt that they feel really bad when they see these people. Deaf married couples who cannot get started because they cannot get a job because the labour market is not spacious enough. You take money from them, even if they want to and can, but they don't have a job. I'm also sure they feel really bad when they hear the story about Lonnie I talked about before. I know this side doesn't share the sympathy of other people that my friends at the port have, but that's not really their problem. That's kind of the problem of this side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153124	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153126	I would recommend to the rapporteur that he send his patent application for the patent on his neighbourly love for the European Court of Justice, because it will not be issued here in the Parliamentary Chamber solely to that side over here. There is a lot of neighbourly love here, and, by the way, also for our political colleagues. I find it difficult to understand the rapporteur's argument. We've been asking if that level is 17,400 kroner. is acceptable. The rapporteur does not think so. 17,400 kr. is simply too small a sum to be paid for people on cash benefits in Denmark. It has to be louder. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153201	That is not correct, because we did not want to make it higher; we wanted to leave it where it is. So that's not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153208	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153217	Did I get it right, sir? Leif Lahn Jensen believes that if today's level is 17,400 DKK. For a single mother with two kids after baby, it's a good level. It is not the case that the Socialists want it to go even further if that is what the level is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153237	The Social Democrats have the wish that this side has, as I have no doubt about it. We want people to get to work, and the way we get them to work is simply not just by cutting benefits for those who have no chance of getting to work. We will get them started by giving them some opportunities, and the last cash aid reform that most of these parties were involved in actually did this. It made mentoring arrangements, it made sure to give these people a chance instead of taking money from them. And it works. It seems much better than making people poorer. Apparently, the Danish People's Party doesn't understand. Neither does the Left, but that is what we are going for, and I have no doubt for a second that it is better to take an interest in people and remove the barriers that people have, rather than making it harder for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153321	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153325	Well, I'm very popular in the Left at the moment, but I'm still conservative, I'd like to make it clear. I don't really understand that sir. Leif Lahn Jensen even goes to the platform, because the reason why there was even a second round was that we really wanted to have an answer on the substance of this bill: what do we think about the level of cash benefits? That's what this is all about. So we ask in concrete terms: what do the Socialists mean? Do you think 17,400 kroner? After tax is a good level for a mother with two children, or do you think it should be even higher? We'd like to know where we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153409	I guess I was a little naive, 'cause I went to the platform hoping to help the blue side get smarter. It didn't help because I think I've mentioned it over and over again. What I am saying is that the benefits must continue to be what they are. We don't want to put them down. It's the Danish People's Party and the Left and the Conservatives and the rest over here who want to put these services down. We don't. We think they are at the level they should be, and then we need to get the cash aid reform we made together to work instead so that these people can get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153440	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153443	I understand that the rapporteur is not going to answer, and it is, in fact, just the same old song. What I would also like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party is that I am very flattered, because the Socialists simply love to talk about the Danish People's Party at the moment. Then it is negative growth in the public sector, where negative growth was achieved in the three out of the four years in which you were in power. It's kind of laughable, all of it. But then let me ask a question in a completely different ball street: Is it true that 84 per cent. Of all the married people on cash benefits, are not Western immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153524	The only time we talk a lot about the Danish People's Party is when they do something wrong, and they do that all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153534	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153538	Now, the rapporteur is not responding again. The rapporteur is sorry, but I am actually just sitting down because I do not expect an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153543	The next one to make a brief comment is Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153547	Thank you. The rapporteur may have heard of the notorious Levakovic family. The family in question has cost the City of Copenhagen and the Municipality of Tårnby in the vicinity of 73.9 million. kr. The expenditure shall include, inter alia: It is clear that a ceiling on cash benefits is needed. Does the rapporteur think that it is all right for a number of deeply criminals to milk society economically and to use the system to ensure that they are provided with public support, for example? cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153624	Of course, the rapporteur does not think so, and of course not many people mean it. But why do all these things you bring in now have to go beyond 24,000 cash benefits recipients? Why should it put 35 500 children in poorer conditions? Why should disabled people and sick people suffer • people who sit out there and really shake their pants because they are really afraid of what will happen in two days' time when we vote? Why do they have to suffer? That is what I simply do not understand, and that is what I am constantly trying to get the Danish People's Party and the Left and the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives to explain. That is why I am standing here and that is the wish I have, and that is why I particularly want the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to come up here, but apparently that is not happening. So that's where I've been a little naive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153707	Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153710	Now we have a question debate later today, and there will probably be the Danish People's Party. The rapporteur does not need to be in any doubt about this at all. I would just like to ask: when there was so much trouble around the Levakovic family, there were no parties against any action being taken to avoid this systematic exploitation of our welfare society. Does the Social Democrats no longer agree that some steps should be taken to avoid this kind of abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153747	But I wonder whether the questioner has found out what this proposal is about. According to the government and the minister, this proposal is about getting more of these 700 to work. It's about getting these people started. And there's what we're saying: there was a SFI report from the '00s that actually said it doesn't work. It doesn't get people going. That's just why we're asking what it is that's actually the reason why you've made this bill. I have not heard the Minister mention the example of the questioner, but I have heard the Minister say that there will be more going on. I just have to say, that's what so many people have said, but that's not gonna happen, because it didn't happen in the '00s either. That is simply what I have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153825	Thank you. The next rapporteur for a brief remark is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153830	But I am prompted to take the floor because, in my view, I do not think there are any answers to the indictment addressed to Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen and the other rapporteurs over in the blue block. Well, I miss a clear answer, and I miss a rebuttal of some of the claims that come from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. You make it sound like the cash benefits are 17,400 DKK. after baby, but it's notoriously wrong. Cash benefits for a single parent amount to DKK 13,779. before taxes and at $1,500 if you're over 30 years old. I'd like to say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: When you get the amount that you calculate, it is because you include child benefits that also people in work get; because you recognise housing protection; and because you recognise free space. And yet the rapporteurs say that it is money that you get in your hand. No, a free space isn't money you get in your hand. You leave the impression that the Danes can compare their income with the 17,400 DKK, and that is notoriously wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153939	Thank you. I'm gonna have to tell mr. Pelle Dragsted that this is about questions for the rapporteur on the platform. Pelle Dragsted I now think that the Rules of Procedure make a brief comment on the rapporteur).
ParlaMint-DK_20160315153954	But now I think this was the most intelligent thing that has been said so far, or at least asked me as a question, I would say. For Mr. Pelle Dragsted is absolutely right that if you dive into it, you can find examples of a lot of people who feel really, really bad. We can just try to look at those we call activity ready, i.e. those who are not ready for work; those who do not have the shadow of a chance to get to work, even though the Danish People's Party and the Left are taking money from them - so there are 15,900 of them, i.e.. Nearly 16,000 people are put in a terrible situation. So they don't have much in advance, and you just give them even less. So I do not think that many of them are sitting here either from the Danish People's Party or Mr. Joachim B. Olsen who can live for what they have to live for after voting for this in 2 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154040	Sir. Pelle Dragsted for a second brief comment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154043	I shall put it as a question this time. It could also leave the impression, when you hear the rapporteurs over there, that cash aid is the kind of thing that has grown and grown. Can the rapporteur confirm that, in relation to what you earn, the benefits you receive as unemployed, whether in cash or in cash, have only gone one way over the past many years and that it is down? Can the rapporteur confirm that losing work and smoking on cash benefits or on cash benefits involves a greater risk for ordinary people, because the fall down to the benefits you receive is greater? Can the rapporteur confirm that this reform is not just an attack on those who are unemployed, but on all employees because most of us experience unemployment during our lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154128	I can at least confirm that I think it is very, very unreasonable that the majority of the people who have the money they have and are put into this situation are people who do not have the shadow of a chance to get to work. I simply do not understand that the Danish People's Party can be a part of this. I don't understand how the Danish People's Party can look at Lonnie and look at those deaf married couples and say: You may not be able to get started, but we really don't care if we take money from you anyway. This is the kind of thing I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154158	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154200	Thank you. What is at the heart of the question is whether the amount of available after tax that you have when you are on cash benefits is an amount for which you can live. I just need to hear and maybe confirm that if you're a single parent with two kids, you're 17,400 kroner. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is it a reasonable amount to have after tax when you are publicly supported and thus on cash benefits, but also receive a number of other benefits? Is 17,400 kroner. a reasonable amount?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154250	I think I've answered that. And when I say that we do not want to change these benefits, it is simply because we believe that by changing the benefits there is a huge risk that we put lots of people in poverty and we do not get any closer. You can keep asking me questions about this, but I think you should start to take an interest in what we are interested in, namely all the people who are affected by these 15 000 to 16 000 activities, these disabled people. Why don't you care about them? Why does this page ask Danish People's Party and Left and Liberal Alliance only about the other? Why do they not ask about the disabled, whether all the people, especially the Danish People's Party, should actually be interested in? That's what the Danish People's Party is about to find a quote from all those who sit in this room have said in the election campaign. Why are they not being cared for now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154339	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154342	My question may have gone a long way. I shall try to be very brief: does the rapporteur think that you should have either more than DKK 17,400, DKK 17,400? or less than DKK 17,400 when you are a single parent with two children and have paid your taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154404	The bill proposes to reduce the benefits, and we say no to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154408	The next brief remark is from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154410	That's pretty interesting. The rapporteur must be able to explain why we want to vote 'no'. I guess that's fair enough. The rapporteur says about this proposal that now there will be poverty out there. Where is the poverty line? Is it above or below 17,400 kroner?? I mean, when do you think people are poor? It's above or below 17,400 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154437	This is very interesting. Because when we got a bourgeois government with the Danish People's Party as a big support, you knew you had to make this cash aid ceiling, and you also knew that it would probably happen that many fell below this poverty line. So what was it you did when you got there? Then you removed the poverty line, because then you were sure that this didn't create poor people. That is what we call prevention, particularly from the Danish People's Party. So if you went after the old poverty limits, yes, some would come under. But again, if you want to get those poverty limits back in, sir. However, René Christensen would like to put forward a motion for a resolution on this matter. Well, then we're ready to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154519	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154522	Now I hear that if the Social Democratic Party gets power at some point, then you live in poverty if you don't have a sum of DKK 17,400. So I understand that if elections are to be held at some point, it will be an election promise that the Social Democratic Party will finance that no Danes should have an available amount of less than DKK 17,400. Is that what we're hearing here from Parliament's platform today? Because then I just want to say that I think that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht gets a little work to do in relation to funding it. But I understand from the rapporteur that if you have less than DKK 17 400. In terms of availability, people live in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154601	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154603	I've heard examples of some who say that after this, they have a 3,000-5,000 kr. for himself to live for with children and everything. It may be that Mr. René Christensen would rather be interested in those who have the 17,400 kroner. But I am interested in those people who simply now say that they have a few thousand crowns to live for. A few thousand kroner you can get a pair of shoes for, right? It's the few thousand crowns you have to live for. But you have kids, and that means you have to go from house to home. We can keep driving in those 17,400 DKK, if that is what interests the Danish People's Party in particular. It's fine. It just doesn't interest me much. My great interest is the people that the Danish People's Party is now sending into poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154641	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154648	Sometimes you experience things going very fast here in the Folketing, and what was done a few years ago is completely forgotten. That is why, just for the sake of history, I think the Socialist rapporteur could perhaps confirm that in the tax reform led by the Social Democratic government together with the SF and the Radicals on the table in 2012, a major financing contribution was to reduce all transfer income by reducing a reduction which begins this year and ends only in 2023. Can we not just confirm, for the sake of good order, that one of the main financing elements of the tax agreement led by the Social Democratic Party together with the SF and the Radicals as government partners in 2012 was a reduction in transfer income?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154737	What was one of the important things in it, as the rapporteur knows, was also to make it worthwhile to work and that there should be a great deal of difference. And that's exactly what's gonna be. That is why the Socialist-led government has actually done more in this area than the Prime Minister has ever done. That is why it is just right, very important to say that it was there that we made a difference, and that is why, when the tax settlement is phased out, there are no cash benefits recipients for whom it is not worthwhile to get to work. I actually thought that was the most important thing. That is why we would rather do it rather than cut benefits. I just have to look at the answer that came from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl during the election campaign. He'd rather. He just doesn't want to anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154820	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154829	I just have to say that it is striking that one should listen to such a svada down here from the Socialist rapporteur when the Social Democrats themselves led the way in reducing benefits in order to make a tax reform, which among other things. granted top tax relief. Honestly, it's hard to listen to this criticism, because it has to pay to work. That is what this is all about. It may then be that the Social Democratic Party thought that it was something that was meant when one was in government, but in opposition one does not think that it should pay better to be in employment than to be on passive support. This is, of course, a clear political priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154900	More than nine out of ten Danes get more than 2,000 DKK. more a month after tax by working. When the Prime Minister was Prime Minister for the first time in 2009-11, there were 26,000 more people for whom it was not possible to get to work according to the Prime Minister. I just have to say that we can be attacked for these things, but the Social Democrats have just shown that it can do much more than the previous government. This is just more about people. There are so many people out there following this debate and are so sad that they really are about to turn every penny and maybe leave house and home. It's obvious that you know that you don't give a shit. You don't even want to come up here and defend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154941	Then it's mr. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315154943	Thank you. Mr. Benny Engelbrecht referred to the Social Democratic rapporteur and said that when the rapporteur comes to the floor, we will have an answer. My colleague Mr. Christian Langballe tried to get some answers but had to give up. Forgive my naivety, but I'm trying to see if I can get some answers. 84% of the spouses on cash benefits are of non-Western origin. What is the rapporteur's position on these figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155018	I don't know those numbers. Of course, you have to dive into the answers. I know, at least, because some of the answers show that the majority of those who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, as a great many people do, are actually ordinary ethnic Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155035	The next brief remark is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. I'm sorry. There was another round. I'm so sorry. Sir. Ib Poulsen to Question No 4 by Mr de la Malène on behalf of the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155046	Thank you. When we see that in these circles women are forced to go home and not enter the labour market, what is the social democracy's solution to getting women in these circles into the labour market when 84 per cent. of the married couples on cash benefits are of non-Western origin? How will social democracy get them into the labour market? What is the solution for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155115	I have said this before, and I am happy to say it again, so that you can see what the difference is between the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats. Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has often been heard saying that there must be an economic incentive; that will get people going. In contrast, we stick to the cash aid reform we made when we were in government. Then we said that something simply needs to be done. You don't get a sick person started by making him poor; you don't get a sick person's health by making him poor; you get a sick person's health by making him well. And you get him to work by making him well. You don't get him to work by making him poor. In fact, I am in doubt whether the Danish People's Party cannot or will not understand it. Actually, I don't think the Danish People's Party cares.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155156	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155200	I think it would be nice if we agreed in this Parliament, regardless of political standing, that any debate should take place on a factual basis. But it doesn't seem like Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen agrees with that objective. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen talks about poverty but does not want to answer whether the amounts that people receive under the new ceiling of cash aid actually trigger poverty. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen will not answer whether a single person with two children, who has 17,400 DKK. for consumption after tax, is poor, although Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that the ceiling on cash benefits makes people poor. This isn't a business debate, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen leads. It is a debate at an unbiased and polemical level. I think that's really, really bad. So now I'm going to say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that the opportunity is there. You are poor if, as a single person with two children, you have a flat-rate after tax of DKK 17,400.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155302	We are being asked after a factual debate. I just have to say: is it a factual debate that I am going up here as rapporteur and I am not being asked questions? Then there will be a privateist who is not the rapporteur. Then you bombard him with questions. You don't dare come up here yourself. The Danish People's Party and others dare not come up here themselves. When I get back up here, you want to take the debate, but you don't dare come up here. Is this a case-by-case debate? I do not think this is an objective debate. A debate, I would say to my dear friends over here, goes both ways. If you come up here, we have a debate. Then we'll have a fair debate. I want that, but apparently not many people here want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155337	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155339	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen could just start by answering the questions. Then it might be that we would also answer some questions. We have done so on several occasions, because there has also been a first reading of this bill. There will also be a third reading. There will also be a question debate. So of course we answer questions, but this is just another treatment and there is no tradition of going up and saying anything unless you have something new to add. I'd like to ask Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen: If you are a single person with 2 children, you have a lump sum of DKK 17,400. After taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155416	I just don't want to deal with that. I will deal with all the people who both the Danish People's Party and the Left send into poverty. All these people with disabilities and sick people. That's what I want to deal with. And apparently you don't want to. I just have to say that we have asked a lot of questions, 150 questions, consultation issues. We have tried here, and we have not received an answer either. There have simply been no proper answers. The only thing we are told by the Minister is that it is an assessment, it is some gut feeling. But there is no answer. I wonder why the Danish People's Party is buying this. I think it is reprehensible and the Danish People's Party owes an answer to their electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155449	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155451	Thank you. We were told by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen was able to answer the questions. Turns out, sir, it could. Leif Lahn Jensen not. Is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is able to appoint a member of the Socialist Group who may be able to tell us what position the Social Democratic Party has on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155515	Yeah, it's me, and we're voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155519	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155521	It's nice to meet you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says he's the one who's setting the line. Then I would just hopefully for the last time ask today: Is 17,400 kroner. Too small a sum to have if you are a single parent for two children? Now, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen himself said that it is he who can say whether this is the position of the Socialist Group, so we must now have the final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155550	Today's level of performance seems to us to be continuing, because many people are also getting a much lower amount. We are worried if you put it down, because then it will have very, very major consequences. That's why we're here, and that's why I want the Danish People's Party to come up here and tell you why they don't mean it. But they don't dare stand here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155607	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155609	Thank you. Then I will go to a slightly different ball street when we cannot get an answer to what amount you need. Then I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the Socialists believe that it is necessary to be available for the labour market in order to be able to receive cash benefits. It's an easy question. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155628	Of course you have to be available. The Socialists have always said that. I also have to say that Denmark is actually the country with the second most stringent availability rules in the world. We are only surpassed by Norway. I think that is actually okay, because of course they must be available. So that's a clear yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155649	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155652	Thank you. Now we've also just heard here that 84 per cent. of the married couples receiving cash benefits are married couples of non-Western origin. We have seen a broadcast last week where men to these women refuse to go to work. Can the rapporteur confirm that this figure is 84 per cent? women are available for the labour market and are therefore entitled to cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155718	Anyone who can work in this country I say all; I don't point out anyone that the Danish People's Party often does work. Those who can't need help. Again I would say that the difference between us and the Danish People's Party is that those who cannot, those who are sick and disabled, I do not take money from. The Danish People's Party does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155739	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the second round is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315155747	Thank you. I just wanted to see if we could get a little bit of objectivity into this debate. After all, the bourgeois parties are trying to create a picture that the cash benefits recipients have a available amount of DKK 17,400. These are the words used in the questions. I can encourage everyone to go into Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's facebook page. There he has placed such a small table that he has cut out of a larger document. And at some point, he's gonna tell us where he got it, so we can see the context. However, it is clear that what the table shows is the disposable income of single parents before gross housing costs, in parentheses noted standard rental, at 2015 prices. That's the headline. So that is not the amount available. From this amount must be deducted x number of thousands of kroner in rent expenses. I guess there's just the little fact we need to wear. Another misdirection is, of course, that it is said that it should be compared with the low-paid person who goes to work every day without having much of it. After all, it is not fair that there should then be a cash aid recipient who can get so much and so much, which, incidentally, is not true either. It is forgetting that this low-paid person, who does not earn so much more, also has the right to family allowances, children's cheques, free space in day care, which may be graduated according to income. Yes, there are some modulations, but it is of no use to produce it completely detached, as we are doing here. The purpose of this exercise is, of course, to give the impression that it is a slaraffenland to be on cash benefits in this country and that you can choose to be on cash benefits. In particular, the bourgeois parties know that this is not something you can choose, because they themselves have been involved in tightening the availability rules for cash benefits recipients. There are tough sanctions if you do not come to a meeting, if you do not participate in the activation that you are being set in motion, whether there is any perspective in it or not. Those are the facts. You can't choose to be on cash benefits in this country. I think we need to deal with some harsh figures that the Ministry itself has given us and which are reflected in the answers we have received. If you cannot read the long boring ministerial answers, then you should know that you can go to the DR website today, where the key answers can be found. Well, the thing is, a single person with a child loses DKK 30,900. per year in available amounts. That is where we are talking about available amounts. A single person with two children loses DKK 36,300. per year in available amounts. That's about. 30% the amount available to the person concerned. A married couple with a child loses DKK 7,700. A married couple with two children loses DKK 14,400. That's what this bill is about. There will be a drastic reduction in the ability of these families to pay their rent. It's as simple as that. I would therefore like to ask that there might at last be a bourgeois rapporteur who came up here. That's very interesting. There has been a debate today in which the rapporteurs for the opposition have been able to justify why we are dissatisfied with this bill. We have tabled some amendments. That is actually what is on the agenda. We have justified the amendments. We have asked for an explanation as to why we will not vote in favour of the amendments we are tabling, which, moreover, are openly contrary to the strange logic of the draft law. Then no bourgeois rapporteurs come up to defend themselves. Instead, they will spend Parliament's time misleading the many viewers and listeners who are and giving the impression that it is a slaraffenland to be on cash aid. Honestly, I think that's too bad. But it's a good thing the day hasn't gone yet. A little later this day we have a question debate, and I really look forward to the bourgeois rapporteurs coming up here and taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160231	Thank you. There is too much unrest and the wall in the hooks in this room, please calm down the tone bed. We have a few brief comments to make. The first one's from sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160240	I have no other wish than that there should be realism in this debate, because that is the case in this debate that has been lacking for decades. The schedule I put up is from the Ministry of Employment. I even think that was laid out in connection with the conclusion of the agreement. What it shows is that a single mother on cash benefits today has 20,300 kroner. paid out. It is true that this is the disposable income. That's what's for renting a home for, buying food for, and what's for. After we introduce this ceiling, she wants $1,400. If you compare it to that of a single mother with two children who work for the agreed minimum wage in Denmark, then such a mother has 21,800 DKK. This is when there has been a deduction from and added to labour market contributions, a reduction in child benefit and what is now coming. That's what's left, and that's what people in the real world do for a living. So there's the difference today, $1,500. for 37 hours of work. You get 1,500 kroner. out of working 37 hours in a low-wage job. That is the reality today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160401	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160403	Has the rapporteur thought about why the reality is so? It is because, fortunately, during the last parliamentary term, there has been a majority in this Parliament who felt that unemployment should not affect children. It should not be the case that when you became unemployed, the children were caught and isolated from comrades, social life and so on. We should make sure that didn't happen. That's why that difference isn't bigger, plus another reason, which is that employers are doing what they can to keep wages down in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160448	What wages the trade union movement and employers agree on, I do not want to interfere with. I just notice that this mother with two children and in a low-wage job, who today has these 21,800 kroner, thus has an income, as the Danish trade union movement has said OK. to. There it is, then, that I think it is completely unreasonable that we in here say: It may well be that you agreed to a salary; we don't care; you can get pretty much the same if you are on cash benefits. In the end, this harms children, because it maintains families in the cash aid system, and we know that there is a social legacy in it. Rather a lower benefit, which you are on for shorter periods, and looked out and get a higher income, especially in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160533	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160535	Well, that reveals the whole mindset of the bourgeois, who is that we have to keep wages down in this country. That is what this is all about, otherwise you would not argue as you do, because you say that you are arguing on a reasonable basis. And the Minister for Employment has said that it is in respect of the social partners and their collective bargaining. That is one of the same things the rapporteur says, but it is only in respect of one side. It is only in respect of the Danish Employers' Association. After all, the LO has renounced that kind of respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160611	The next question is a fellow party member of the rapporteur, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160616	After all, the rapporteur is a former trade unionist for some of the low-paid people in this country. And when you hear the speech that comes over here from Joachim B. Olsen, it sounds like the right wing has a great love for and shows a great deal of consideration for the low-paid. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that the very people who are on the minimum wage of DKK 17 700, on which it is based to arrive at this result? It is not a large group, but they are some of the people who are most likely to be affected by unemployment and are therefore precisely those who will be most severely affected by the reforms that the parties who claim to care about them will carry out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160701	I can very much confirm this, and it also reveals the gap in it when both the Minister for Employment and the bourgeois parties say that it is because there must be reasonableness. There must be reasonableness in it, but they just can't really explain the pleasure the low-paid person has from the fact that the unemployed person is getting worse. They have no joy whatsoever. Well, if you're finally going to discuss it, we've got an answer to that, you can lubricate this 500 million. kr., which is the saving of this bill, out of tax relief. This will give the low-paid a tax relief of 16 DKK. They can't pay rent for that on the day they get unemployed. Then they get hit by these rules. So there's no reasonableness in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160757	The questioner refrains from another question to his fellow party member, and then we have a new questioner. It's sir. Jakob Engelbrecht from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160807	No, I'm afraid I'm not. Jakob Engel-Schmidt). Thank you. And I, who've been so crazy about the expert major voice right up until now. Oh. The rapporteur will be pleased to see that I have read an analysis from the Labour Movement's Enterprise Council. In this analysis AE writes that the difference between being on cash benefits and being newly trained in the retail sector in the first year is as low as 25,000 DKK. So, the difference between being newly trained in the retail sector and being on cash benefits is the first year only 25,000 DKK. That's very few thousand kroner a month. I am well aware that the rapporteur represents a strong left-wing party, and I therefore hope that the rapporteur can respond to what other representatives of the red bloc have not replied to: since we want to set a ceiling on cash aid, what is it, Mr President? Finn Sørensen wants? How high should the cash be? Should it be even higher than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315160910	I think our view of this is widely known. For years, we have been fighting for the elimination of the quite unreasonable so-called rate pool regulation, which means that all transfer income, including cash aid, is falling further and further behind. This is a development which, unfortunately, has been reinforced by the recent tax reform of 2012, as Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's party is part of, and which means that in the coming years, while the tax reform is being phased in, transfer income will be further reduced by 5.1%. This is equivalent to a loss of one month's daily subsistence allowance when the tax reform has been fully phased in as an indication of the purchasing power of the beneficiary in question this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161004	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161006	Thank you. Practice makes perfect. Well, I wasn't talking about cash benefits. I was talking about Danes on cash benefits. But it may be difficult to get an answer, I sense, so I would like to ask the rapporteur something else. After all, it is well known that the party Enhedslisten is strongly opposed to the integration and asylum policy pursued by the government. If it were to Enhedslisten, Denmark would look like Sweden in many areas, at least on the number of people we accept. We know that after the ceiling on cash benefits has been abolished, the proportion of married couples on cash benefits has increased and that a very large proportion of married couples on cash benefits are new dancers. Can the rapporteur not see the socio-economic problems that arise if we follow the policy promoted by the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161048	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161050	I can't find a head or a tail in mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's argument. I can only point out that we are pleased that, together with the previous government, we have had the abolition of the poverty benefits that the current government and its majority will now reinstate in an even tougher form, because it has been documented that poverty benefits lead to an explosion of poverty and, in particular, an explosion in the number of poor children. I am glad that we abolished the rules, and it goes without saying that when you do so, the number that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161127	There is another questioner and I can see that it is another fellow party member of the rapporteur. I would quietly recommend that we try to organise the debate in such a way that it is different parties that are debating with each other. But I now give the floor to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161142	Well, I can tell the President that I would very much like to make this point to one of the blue bloc rapporteurs. This is just not possible in this debate, and then you have to use the opportunities that exist. Over here, the minimum wage is DKK 17,700. I would like to point out in this debate that I know that there may be no one in this Chamber who knows more about than the rapporteur who is standing on the platform, because if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in this House, then we shall have the right to vote in this House. If you look at the industrial agreement, you can see that it is the case that someone who works in industry receives an employer's pension. You get a sixth holiday week, you get a large number of supplements. There is a reason why an agreement does not consist of an A4 page, but of an entire book. That is why it is a totally misleading comparison coming from the right of the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is, in fact, just the point that I think is missing from the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161235	I see it as a little nose to me because I hadn't highlighted that point. I can fully confirm the point made by my group chairman there. So thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161248	There are no more requests for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak as rapporteurs? As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161306	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 58 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (RV), and a vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 41 (S, ALT and RV), against 70 (DF, V, EL, LA, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. The amendment has been rejected. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 7, 8, 9 and 22 submitted and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 16-21, replaced and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 13, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA and CF) or on Amendment No 14. 15, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 23 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 25 and 32, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 24, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA and CF) on Amendment No 24, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). 26, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 26. 27 and 28, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL), on Amendments Nos 29 to 31, adopted by the committee, or on Amendments Nos 29 to 31. 33, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315161922	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315162036	I can see that there is a rapporteur who would like to speak. Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315162112	Thank you. This bill is, of course, in some way a continuation of the previous discussion on the so-called cash benefits ceiling. I think that the word 'aid ceiling' is such a real spin word, because it makes it sound as if, before this so-called ceiling was introduced, there was only infinite cash aid, and that is not true. In other words, the ceiling on cash benefits means cutting benefits for people who already have very little to live on. What goes on in this bill with the spin words, because it's about expanding the circle of people who get so-called integration benefits. The word 'integration benefit' is at least as misleading as the word 'cash aid ceiling', because what is going to happen with this bill is that far more refugees in Denmark will live in poverty with massive cuts in their livelihoods. This does not create integration. On the contrary, you isolate people, and the isolation of people and make sure that they sit so hard in it that they may be able to pay the rent, but that they can at least not participate in any social life, is exceptionally stupid if you want good integration in Denmark. One argument for this bill could be to scare refugees away, so that refugees should say: No, we certainly do not want to come to Denmark; we do not have to go there. But that argument does not make sense, because this bill is not about those who are coming, but about those who already live here. Another argument could be that now I'm trying to understand the government's way of thinking about these refugees getting into work if you cut massively on their livelihoods. It has been asked what the employment impact of this bill is. In other words, how many people do you expect to get into work as a result of these drastic cuts, which are therefore subject to the imposition of refugees in Denmark? The employment effect appears to be so small that it cannot be measured. The government's answer is that this has not been measured. So you're willing to send thousands of people, including thousands of children, into poverty, knowing that the purpose of scaring refugees away has nothing to do with this bill, because the bill applies to people who already live here and knowing that the employment effect is so small that you don't even dare to measure it yourself. In other words, the consequence of this bill is one thing, and it's poverty. And if anything is bad for integration in Denmark, it is poverty. Why is that a problem? Well, that's a problem for the people it's hurting. The fact that you are not able to participate in social life and that you are at risk of social problems as a result of poverty is not funny. This is a problem for the people it affects. This is also a problem for everyone else in Danish society, because we do have a common interest in actually making integration work. Perhaps there is one place where this is going to create jobs, and that is among the social workers, because the municipal case officers now need to go through 200,000 cases to identify the 21,000 cases that are expected to be covered by this bill. In other words, those social workers who are already so insanely busy and who already have everything, too many cases on their tables with the consequences that can have for their work, now need to go through 200,000 cases manually to find out who it is you have to take the money from. A third point in connection with this bill that I would like to draw attention to is the obvious lack of cheap housing in Denmark. Now we heard earlier today, this morning, housing associations are out to say: Try to hear here, the mathematics that the government has put forward are completely unrealistic; so low rents are not there in the larger cities. We have heard several mayors say: we simply cannot see how to find a place where these people can live when they have so little to live for. So what is happening now is that the government is wiping out the bill on the municipalities, because the municipalities are obliged to find a place to live for the refugees. How are they going to do this, if you allow refugees to get so low a service that there are no homes to get? In fact, I think it is a bit crazy that the government chooses to overhear all child organizations that so clearly say that this will lead to more children growing up in poverty in Denmark and that it is bad for integration; that one chooses to transfer the social workers, who say that this is an obstacle to their work of getting newly arrived refugees off the ground in Danish society; that one overhears the mayors when they say that they do not have housing that can be paid for such low benefits. Even if we then crawl into the right wing's heads and think that there must be a reason why they are doing this, that there has to be some sense in it, that it must be because they think that something good is coming out of it. Maybe they think people are going to work if you make them poor. Then we have to see that the government doesn't even believe that. It has said: no, we cannot count on the employment effect. Oh, my God! This is a huge step backwards for integration in Denmark. The refugees are going to suffer. The children of the refugees will suffer. It is going to affect the whole of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315162733	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315162743	Thank you. For us, integration policy has no more important objective than getting people into work. As people who follow this debate will know, we have made many proposals and we continue to make many new proposals on how we can increase employment among foreigners and refugees in Denmark. We have fought to keep working outside the centres and, fortunately, we have succeeded. And we have actively offered good ideas in the debate that is currently taking place in the context of the trialogue negotiations. So that is why, of course, we also go without prejudice to any proposal aimed at creating more jobs for refugees and foreigners. And when you read the government's reasoning, and when you hear the minister argue, that's exactly what this bill is meant to do. The problem is that the experience we have, the experts who speak and all the data we can look at show something else. They show that the employment effect is very, very small if it is there at all. What we know, on the other hand, is that the negative effect on integration in Denmark will be great. First of all, it will be large in relation to families with children. We know that children affected by poverty, which may well be the effect of this bill, will be excluded from social communities; they will have difficulty in having the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. It's gonna be hard to make everyday life work in many of these families. That is why we are very much opposed to this proposal, and that is why we have also made various proposals that could soften up some of the very negative effects. Unfortunately, the government did not want to discuss these things; unfortunately, we have not been called for negotiations on precisely those things. We have said from the outset that it is not sacred for us to discuss benefits; on the contrary, we can easily see an economic rationale in looking at the benefits that were applicable. However, the solution that exists now cannot be supported by the Socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315163006	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315163023	Thank you. Today we have a second reading of Bill No. L 111, the purpose of which is to extend the scope for the reception of integration benefits. The alternative is still against this bill and I would like to raise a number of questions today which I hope the Minister will find the opportunity to answer. The logic behind the policy pursued in this area remains a mystery to me, because no matter how I turn it, I cannot make the overall integration accounts of the so-called 'integration benefit' go in plus. I am aware that the integration benefit is expected to have a positive effect on employment, and I can understand from the Minister's answer to my colleague Ulla Sandbæk's question about the isolated effect of the bill on employment that the Ministry has not considered it appropriate to consider whether this forthcoming extension of the target group for the integration benefit will in itself get more into work. So I have to thank you with a total employment effect for both L 2 and this bill, L 111. And it also points out that it is a total of 400 full-year people when the effect is fully phased in • 400. Carried against the 21,000 people in 2016, who are expected to come up with a benefit equivalent to a halving of cash benefits, this effect has to be said to be marginal and far from adequate, especially in view of the fact that countless organisations and professionals in the field repeatedly warn against the anti-integration effects of integration benefits, leaving thousands of people in relative poverty. In this context, how does the Minister assess the proportions between the job effect of the integration benefit on the one hand and the impact on the individual recipient of the integration benefit on the other? In view of this, does the Minister consider that the overall integration accounts are positive? Poverty doesn't get any more work. And there is a relatively broad consensus in this House that an important step on the road to successful integration is precisely through links with the labour market and the working communities. That is why I find it deeply regrettable that we are not using this consensus on the objective to find decent and socially and economically sustainable ways of getting people into work. Further marginalisation of already vulnerable groups should never be the answer. I believe that our political ambition must be much higher. The reality of the government vis-à-vis refugees and the lack of motivation of other marginalised groups to take up a job shadows a debate and a realisation of the real solutions. The problem should not be found in the individual's lack of motivation to take a job. Both the municipal job centres and the Danish Refugee Aid report that refugees are generally highly motivated to become self-supporting and part of the Danish labour market. Instead, limited language skills, bureaucratic barriers and lack of jobs are indicated as reasons why the target group has difficulty in establishing a link with the labour market. As I see it, in terms of both integration benefits and the ceiling on cash benefits, there is a regrettable and unjustified trend whereby each individual is given responsibility for his own unemployment, despite the fact that the arrow points to a mix of structural conditions, specific barriers for the target group and a long-standing failed policy. How does the Minister feel that the various barriers that exist between the target group and the labour market should be weighed? And how does the Minister feel they should be countered? At the moment, there are trialogue negotiations and I look forward to a result that I hope will be useful in getting refugees into work through a focused effort that is not about reducing an integration benefit. I hope that the Minister recognises that the road to better integration, both in the labour market and in general, requires not only some of the individual, but also very much calls for serious and holistic action on our part. I think it is a pity that we are gathered here today to discuss once again the sense of making people poor when we could instead discuss how we invest best in our fellow human beings and at the same time ensure that meaningful jobs are created for everyone in the future, both for the sake of integration, but also for the good of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315163501	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315163511	Thank you. I was in three different municipalities yesterday, and I have been around a lot of municipalities.I am sure that there are a number of other rapporteurs who have also been there and they actually say the same, regardless of whether you talk to the municipal politicians, and it is quite broadly political, or whether you talk to the housing associations or with the organisations that handle the reception of refugees, namely that they cannot find housing suitable for the integration service. The government says they have to go to work and that is why they have introduced the benefit. After all, nobody disagrees that we need to get as many people as possible in jobs as soon as possible. Actually, we've been saying this a long time. We have also put forward a large number of concrete proposals. However, the government has helped prevent refugees from moving into a home and getting started. The Left would not negotiate on the proposal that everyone should contribute, as the previous government presented now almost a year ago, quite the opposite. That approach now seems to the government to be reviewing the work of the trialogue negotiations. That's really good. At the same time as the negotiations and the government's proposals here, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have acknowledged that it is difficult; it requires new tools to get more refugees into work; we must try something new. However, with the introduction and extension of the integration service, the so-called 'integration benefit', the argument was precisely that this would lead to more refugees getting to work. There's no way that's connected. You say one, but you do another. I also think that in this debate on the benefits of integration, which is actually a marginalisation grant or perhaps a poverty benefit more correctly, it is the debate we just came from, and in that debate and earlier in the Question Time today we had a discussion about precisely poverty, it is worth noticing that at that time the Prime Minister, only the President of the Left, had been very clear, actually so clear that I took it as an expression of the position of the Left. The Prime Minister said at the time when he was only President of the Left: 'I will never pursue a policy that brings children below that limit. It was the poverty line of the then government, and I took that as an expression of an attitude or a stand call it what you want to • thus as something that is actually meant. But apparently it wasn't, because that's what's gonna happen now. It is quite clear, and I just think we should all remember that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315163845	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315163851	Thank you. This bill is, of course, a bill that has a really big impact on a lot of people. It increases poverty, and today you can also read in Jyllands-Posten that after 1 July 21,000 people have to get used to having a completely different income base. According to BL, half of these people will find it difficult to keep their present home. I think that may also underline the seriousness of what we are actually dealing with today. This means that from 1 July the municipalities will have to find approx. 10,000 paying homes. Then you can ask yourself how many people think it is more realistic. On top of that, there will be the people who are being moved because of the ceiling on cash aid, on which we also had a debate in this Chamber a few minutes ago. There are 14,000 people hit here. I think the government simply owes some good answers to where the housing which will be lacking in the coming months will come from. The party-political debate also suffers because this is also about decency. It is also about the fact that we need to provide some answers to the consequences of the legislation that will be adopted here in the coming weeks. There I have to say that I still think the government owes some basic answers to where the people who are going to leave their homes are going to live. Those answers are blowing in the wind, and apparently they are after second reading. Now we have to see if the answers come before the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164018	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164040	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164121	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164144	Thank you very much for that, President. I have to be absolutely sure: is it true that we are working together on the next two proposals, or how can we understand the agenda? It's not a co-treatment? No, I would have said so). Yeah, that's why I asked you that, too, because I wasn't sure. That's how it goes. But this is about Bill No. L 119, and basically, it is important that we can feel safe when we shop online and when we communicate with the public on the web. As we read the proposal from the Socialist side, this is what is at stake here: it is partly a approximation of Danish legislation so that it comes in line with an EU regulation and partly some corrections. And then, in the long run, we are opening up to Danish citizens and companies with this regulation to use NemID from other types of services on other EU countries' digital solutions. But these are opportunities that you can first look forward to seeing what can be used for later. But it has to be said that basically there must be an adequate level of safety for electronic identification and trust services, and for us to see this is what this bill is about, and that is why we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164316	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jan Rytkjær Callesen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164328	The aim of the draft law is to strengthen confidence in electronic transactions in the internal market by establishing a common basis for citizens and businesses and public authorities. We believe in the Danish People's Party that online security is of course important in this context. So we support the proposal and look very positively at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164358	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164406	Thank you. I am not going to entertain with a long speech either, because in the Left we naturally support the bill. We do so because the proposal ensures that we can meet the requirements of the eIDAS regulation for the Member States of the European Union, but we are also doing so because it is basically a quite sensible legislative proposal, which helps to ensure that there is proper digital security and that the rules to ensure security are up to date and ensure that we, as citizens, businesses and public authorities, can make use of digitalisation in a safe and proper way. And as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, it has a slightly longer perspective in relation to the fact that these services can be used across EU borders. This makes things even better for citizens, consumers and businesses alike. So this digitisation is quite clever, but it must of course also be safe, and we must be confident that the information we send electronically is also treated confidentially. That is why we must have good oversight of our trust services, as it says, and we must also have clear sanctions if that responsibility is not properly managed. So in the Left, we think that this is a really sensible legislative proposal which ensures that we also have sensible and proper security in the digital world, and this is certainly needed in order to reap all the benefits of digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164534	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164538	I am standing here on behalf of our IT rapporteur, Rune Lund, who is unfortunately home with a sick child, and this can happen sometimes. So I shall try to do my best to spread around a complex area of IT security. When we read this bill in Enhedslisten, we can read what the purpose of the proposal is. We can read that we want to improve the security of electronic signatures and mutual recognition of electronic identification, and we can read that these are key actions from the European Union, etc. etc. These are all very fine and fine words. We must also say, however, that we cannot read out whether this will lead to a weakening of Danish standards in this area; whether there will be a maximum legislation that can hinder Denmark from taking the lead in terms of IT security for users. Nor can we read out whether there are any particular areas where it may be a problem when this legislation is also extended to regulate a wider group of electronic trust services, as well as electronic identities and documents. So, although all the statements of intent sound very reasonable, we in the Enhedslist must honestly say that there are a whole series of questions to which we must ask for answers before we can support this bill. So, we simply need to have concrete on the table what the consequences will be for Danish legislation and what the consequences for Danish users of IT security will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164743	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164754	Thank you. I must also admit that I am here as a form of temporary agency and, unlike L 113, which we have just witnessed, I do not think there is necessarily any reason to spend much time on this bill. The Liberal Alliance supports the replacement of the current directive with a new regulation on digital signatures, and we will then have it in this way, among other things. introduced a form of internal market for the use of digital signatures. The Liberal Alliance would like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164830	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164837	In the alternative, we are comfortable with this bill and do not really see that there should be any ghosts immediately as regards the challenges that could be, namely that it could burden, among other things. Danish business or citizens in relation to privacy. The total national expenditure is set at a maximum of 4 million. kr. in relation to the implementation that will be. In relation to the perspective we are talking about here, it is not a risk for us to say that we support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164912	Thank you. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why we move on to the rapporteur for the SF, Mr President. Jonas Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315164923	Thank you. I shall convey a message from the Radicals and say that they support the proposal. After all, we from the SF are always sceptical when there is a bill from the Finance Minister. He should not take that personally, but it is of course a healthy scepticism, because at least we look at parts of economic policy differently. But about this bill, I don't think we're gonna have that much disagreement. It is basically sensible that we now have the Digitalisation Authority as a supervisory body and that we ensure that the regulations that are in force will, of course, also apply in Denmark. That is why, basically, I believe that this is a sensible set of rules, which we in the SF agree with. Against this background, we can also support the proposal, despite the fact that it comes from the Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165006	The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165013	Because it comes from the Finance Minister, the Conservative People's Party is generally in favour of the proposal, so we can support the proposal. After all, it is a lot of technicalities that make safety a tiny bit better and it updates the legislation. So there is little more to say about it than that the Conservative People's Party can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165042	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and for their overwhelming support for the proposal. After all, the EU has adopted a regulation on eID and trust services, which will enter into force here on 1 July 2016. The regulation lays down a framework to ensure electronic transactions in the internal market, and in the long term this means that people and businesses will be able to use their electronic ID and signature across borders. The aim of the draft law is to repeal existing legislation and appoint a supervisory body and impose sanctions. In addition, the law must supplement the regulation with some provisions. The existing Danish regulation in the field • i.e. the law on electronic signatures is repealed with the entry into force of this bill, as the regulation regulates the same area as the law. The bill designates the Digitalisation Authority as the supervisory authority and provides for sanctions for breaching the regulation. Finally, the Minister of Finance is authorised to lay down rules on supervision and security in order to facilitate the work of the Business and Digitalisation Board on compliance with the requirements of the Regulation. I am, of course, ready to answer the various questions that may be raised at the end of the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165216	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165234	The debate is open, and I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Magnus Heunicke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165252	Thank you. This case is also a technical matter, but it has a little more fundamental aspects in play, because it is an absolutely necessary and also good, I think, follow-up to a statement by the Parliamentary Ombudsman. When that institution speaks, one must be responsive and ready to correct, and that is what is happening at the moment. Because, of course, there should be consistency between the legal basis and the actual possibilities that exist in order to send digital mail from the citizen or from the business community to the authorities. There has been no such criticism in the past, and rightly so, and that is what we are now following up on. I guess you do it in a way that doesn't make you feel bad, for example. accessibility of disabled people, and this is done in a way that ensures a minimum limit of 10 MB, which authorities who want to create a limit must allow you to send in and thus manage. We Socialists all think this is sensible, and so I would like to say that we can support the proposal. I shall convey the same message from the Radical Left, that is to say that they are also prepared to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165413	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165428	Thank you, sir. President. The draft law will amend the existing authorisation so as to allow administratively to set the limit of the capacity which it is technically and economically justifiable to set to the size of files that citizens and businesses can send to and receive from authorities respectively. The authorisation may be used to lay down rules on the maximum size of files and the number of files that citizens and companies should be able to send per. message via the Digital Post solution. So in the Danish People's Party we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165505	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165511	Thank you. As has already been said, the proposal we are now considering is a follow-up to an opinion from the Ombudsman back in May last year, which found that there were some legal shortcomings in what is currently the Public Digital Post Act, which was adopted back in 2012. We must, of course, correct that. The statement by the Ombudsman was that there was a discrepancy between the sizes of mail and electronic communications that you have the opportunity to send and what you actually have a legal right to. In other words, it would mean risking being in a situation where, as a sender of electronic mail, you would risk your e-mails disappearing into nothing. By making it clear now what sizes you can use and where you know that there is a guarantee that they will come forward, we will actually solve a problem which, as far as I have understood, has not really arisen yet, and that is quite fine, but we will ensure that there is a clear framework, so that as a citizen you know how big mails you can send and that the public clearly provides information to citizens about how large mails and electronic transfers you can receive. It makes very good sense to have it under control and, as I said, it stems from an opinion from the Ombudsman. It makes very good sense for us to get this right so that we can, of course, support the bill from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will pass on the floor to Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165656	Thank you. I would like to say briefly that the Enhedslisten also supports the proposal. It is obvious that there must be consistency between law and reality, but it must also be operational. So that the finance minister can be allowed to lay down rules on how large files you can send to the public is a really, really good idea. It supports the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165723	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165730	Thank you. A little in a continuous formation of temporary workers, I should just like to say that the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal. We think it is very sensible to continually adapt the law here so that it does not conflict with the actual technical reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165748	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165755	Those are some brief speeches today. The alternative can also say yes to this. Of course, the digital mail should not be stopped in its intention by legal devices, so we also say yes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165808	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's fast. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165816	Thank you. I can almost repeat what I said earlier. Now it is the Finance Minister who has to control how much we have to send in these messages in the Digital Post solution. On this point, however, I feel relatively confident that the Minister of Finance can handle this. However, in all its simplicity, the draft law is precisely about, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned earlier, a request which came from the Parliamentary Ombudsman during 2015 and which we are now responding to. That is why I think it is a relatively simple proposal which we in the SF can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165850	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165857	In the light of the opinion of the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament and the technical challenges posed by the various server stations of the State, it is natural that, on the conservative side, we can support the proposal of the Finance Minister. So the Conservative People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165916	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315165923	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. After all, Digital Post is a good example of how digitalisation contributes to the development and efficiency of the public sector. Today, 89 per cent are receiving. of members of households over 15 years post digitally. Satisfaction is high and the authorities are sending more and more digitally. As has also been pointed out by several rapporteurs, the bill has been made on the basis of a statement of 2 May 2015 by the Danish Parliament Ombudsman on the reception capacity of the solution. In his opinion, the Ombudsman found that there is no complete consistency between the legal basis and the actual opportunities available to citizens and businesses to send digital mail to the authorities. Specifically, in the Digital Post solution and in the underlying systems of the authorities, there are technical limitations on how large and how many files a single message can contain. I can inform you that the Digitalisation Authority has no knowledge of citizens or companies who have lost their rights by not being able to send a large message at once. Having said that, there must of course be consistency between the legal basis and the actual possibilities in the solution. The draft law provides for the possibility for the Minister of Finance to lay down detailed rules on the size and number of files that can be sent per year. notification to and from a public sender. This will make it possible to reconcile the legal basis with the actual possibilities offered by the Digital Post solution for sending and receiving mail to and from public senders. At the same time, it will be possible to take account of developments in technological opportunities on an ongoing basis. I shall, of course, answer all the questions in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170133	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170158	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Paulin as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170209	Thank you. The draft law that we are dealing with first here today is basically about implementing the EU directive on the framework for maritime spatial planning in Danish law. With the adoption of the bill, it will thus be possible to initiate a process which will lead to coherent planning for the maritime space. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament is in favour of this as a starting point, because we can already see that maritime areas are ravaged. Today, Denmark already has some highly industrialised sea areas, and there is no indication that this industrialisation will decline in the future. On the contrary, we see a greater demand for sea areas, for example. construction of offshore wind farms. In addition, wave energy, oil extraction, marine aquaculture are also activities that require space at sea, just as more traditional fishing and shipping do. Finally, there is also consideration for outdoor life and tourism. The intention to create clear guidelines and coordination for the use of the maritime space therefore welcomes the Social Democracy. We also welcome the fact that this work can also help to increase maritime growth opportunities, but nevertheless the new opportunities for growth at sea must not be at the expense of the environment. Therefore, we would also like to see the green profile in the bill tightened, so it is clear that the government is working to improve the Danish marine environment. The government should therefore be more inspired by Article 5 of the EU Directive, which specifically emphasises that one of the objectives of spatial maritime planning is the preservation, protection and improvement of the environment, including resilience to the consequences of climate change. We lack that balance in the purpose clause for the government's bill, where we believe that the balance tips and becomes too one-sidedly focused on growth. At the same time, we note that the same concern has been raised in a number of the consultation responses, and we therefore support the proposal as a starting point, but expect that the government will take the concern seriously and ensure a better balance between growth and the environment in the legislative proposal. Then I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also support the draft law, but have the same concerns and wishes in terms of a better balance between the environment and growth. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170422	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170437	Thank you. Law on maritime spatial planning is intended to implement the European Parliament and Council directive on the framework for maritime spatial planning in Danish law. The aim of the Act is to promote economic growth, the development of marine areas, the use of marine resources in a sustainable manner. Hopefully, most people can nod to that. It is in the energy sector at sea, maritime transport, fisheries and aquaculture and the recovery of raw materials at sea. This means that everything from the sea level, where it is maritime transport, and the water column, can be said where it is fishing and aquaculture, and the sea bed, where it is a matter of rock, sand and gravel, and to the underground with oil and gas. This is quite a fine proposal that we in the Danish People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170542	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170555	Peaceful sea areas, offshore wind turbines, shipping routes and oil drilling platforms should not be believed, but there is actually a bid for the space at sea, and that is why the government is presenting this bill, which is to form a kind of future marine planning law. New and extended renewable energy technologies require space, and that is why there is a risk that there will be conflicts of interest between protected areas and oil extraction and other activities, and we must thus strike a balance between protecting and using the sea at the same time. So the law of plans is the one that goes on land. This is one of the themes we are discussing a great deal at the moment in connection with the government's proposals •Growth and development throughout Denmark •. In the light of developments, there is also a need for a planning law for the sea, and I have to say that my hope is that the maritime version will be somewhat more progressive and growth-oriented than the current one is on land. The draft law is an implementation of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the framework for maritime spatial planning, and the directive requires Member States to legislate on the use of sea areas. It is particularly relevant to us in Denmark • we have relatively much sea around us • and it is also of great importance because we are a country where we like to pay tribute to Blue Denmark, the maritime industry, which contributes tremendously to our exports, to growth and to employment. That is why it is, of course, important that we get this right. You can also see from the stakeholders who have been heard that there is basically a positive approach to it, and the need to secure a regulatory basis is also present. That is why, of course, we in the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170757	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315170810	In the Enhedslisten, we agree entirely with the need for coherent planning of activities and installations at sea. And just like the law of plans for decades has been a good instrument for governing where in the country we would like to see development, for example. of our cities, where we would have liked to have seen nature in place, then planning at sea will also be useful to accommodate the different and opposing interests that, after all, compete over the sea area, and can be a good tool to also ensure our very vulnerable portrait. We think it is obvious that such a marine law will be based on the premises of portrait, since a healthy marine environment is the starting point for many other activities at sea to thrive and develop. This is particularly true of our fishing industry. That is why I was a little disappointed by reading down the draft law and was able to see that this is at least not sufficiently the case. The draft law does not have the marine environment as the central starting point for planning and, as we read it, it opens up the possibility that business interests may be over-influenced by considerations of the environment and nature. The draft law also chooses to give the Minister for Business and Growth the opportunity, without which we see it necessary to involve relevant ministers, to decide on actions that may have relatively significant consequences for the environment and nature. And we look at that with some concern. The draft law has chosen to emphasise the marine environment less strongly in the purpose of the law than is stated in the purpose of the directive implemented by this law. Thus, the title of the draft law, which is called the objective and scope, speaks only of sustainable growth, development and exploitation and not of the environmental aspects: ecosystem-based approach or conservation, protection and improvement of the environment. This may be seen later as something that must be taken into account in planning, but we see it as too much to make the marine environment secondary. We believe that at least it could have been ensured that the purpose of the law corresponds to the text of the directive and does not reduce it to some planning considerations. Because planning interests, including at sea, is a conflicting territory. We can, for example. take the Øresund, which is a rather unique area purely biologically. This is one of the few places where trawling has been prohibited since the 1930s, and it is one of the areas which has been allowed to develop very positively with a seabed flora and fauna and fish stocks which are considerably better than many other places in Danish waters. But here is, for example. have been granted permissions for dredging to supply Copenhagen's construction projects with sand. It's one of the kinds of conflict this law has to deal with, and it's a good example of the need to balance these things, and that nature considerations should be written in as something central to the marine plan. For of course, unique nature should not be rolled by some business interests. For example, if you leave it alone... In this case, dredging in the Øresund, the prospect of this extraction of raw materials is likely to overshadow nature in the future for many years to come, and therefore also important fishing grounds for the local fishing industry. We are destroying a natural basis that is essential for both tourism and leisure life, for something sand that might have been sucked up elsewhere at a marginal additional cost. We also think that there is a worrying authority for the Minister for Business and Growth in the bill, that is to say, the issue of how we read it, that it is the Minister for Business and Growth who has to establish the plan for the sea without involving other ministerial stakeholders. And that is a little disturbing from what I have just said. We also find it a little strange that the draft law allows the Minister for Business and Growth to lay down rules on when a decision can be appealed against and when it cannot be. It is a great power for the Minister, and it is also appealed to by many of the consultation parties in the public consultation that has been carried out. Unfortunately, however, this concern is completely rejected in the government's consultation note. So in the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of planning more, and we are in favour of a marine law, but we see some problems in this bill. We do not believe that there is enough emphasis on environmental considerations to be taken and we believe that business interests seem to take too much precedence over nature. That is why we will not support the draft law in its present form, but we hope, of course, that we have also heard other rapporteurs announce some amendments that during committee work we will be able to go somewhere where we will be able to see ourselves in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315171319	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315171328	Some may think that hurry is a load, and with the present bill, the Minister can now start work on drawing up a real marine plan, which will have to be finalised in the Danish Parliament in 2021 at the latest. After all, there is no immediate reason to put undue pressure on oneself. Denmark has for a long time had major activities at sea in the form of e.g.: oil and gas production, fishing and extraction of raw materials, as has already been mentioned here by other rapporteurs, and also shipping in general is quite considerable in Danish waters if ships can otherwise steer around all the wind turbines. The interest in maritime Denmark is great at the moment, as is interest in our coasts, both in terms of beach protection and safeguarding physical values and people close to the sea. In fact, we have also recently debated a motion for a resolution on coastal protection. Some of us are also fortunate enough to have to make company visits to the North Sea in the near future, and the recently adopted and very stormy food and agricultural package includes among other things. also elements to promote growth in the aquaculture sector. The Liberal Alliance believes that there are great opportunities for development and economic growth ahead of us in the professions that live on, on, on and off the sea, and therefore welcomes the initiative here. After all, the aim of marine planning is also to promote economic growth and development in balance with the environment. The proposal does not actually adopt concrete policy, more technology, but hopefully a forum will be created to ensure a sensible balance between different economic and environmental interests, so that our surrounding sea areas and marine resources will in future be exploited on a sustainable basis for the benefit of both people and the environment. The proposal also envisages an open process without haste and with long consultation periods and apparently quite reasonable redress. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315171607	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315171618	I am standing here on behalf of our rapporteur, Christian Poll, who unfortunately could not be here, and I think he would be very pleased that I said that in the alternative we are very much in line with what Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Pelle Dragsted, was saying before. We think there is something wrong with the fact that the new marine environment plan should be in this very ministry. There can be a great many good reasons for talking about growth when we talk about maritime areas too, but above all we are interested in ensuring that a plan is put in place to safeguard the environment. In relation to the directive that came and which we have seen as the starting point, we have attached ourselves to some things that may be petites. However, the fact that priority has been given in the order of the areas of action that should be, we see as unfortunate, in that the environment is at the bottom. So we look forward in committee to coming in and looking at the amendments that hopefully bring this back in a direction where it might be better that it is in the Ministry of the Environment and Food or the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate than that it is in the Ministry of Business and Growth. It may be petites, but we just have the experience of this parliamentary year since we joined in the summer, that the ambitions of the government in the environmental field and the ambitions that we have ■ although we actually partake of the fact that they are equally high sometimes are very, very different. Therefore, we may almost have to wear small shoes when we look through these things, because frankly, we do not believe that growth should come first when we put our marine environment plan. On the other hand, we believe that nature must take the lead. Before we have complete certainty that we are making a plan that, even if it is far in the future, takes care of what it all starts with, that is, our nature and the environment, we do not intend to talk about economic growth carried by our marine environment. So, as a starting point, we are positive, but it is likely that some amendments will have to be tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315171819	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315171833	Thank you. A modern planning law should recognise that a healthy marine environment and a healthy nature and that the objective of achieving ecological water quality in Danish waters is the scientific basis on which economic activities must rest. In the SF we think it is important that this is made quite clear by the purpose of the law. We are sceptical about the power of the Minister, who will be able to determine the details of the consultation process, including deciding that there should be no consultation, in relation to decisions under the law laid down in the law itself. The same applies to the involvement of stakeholders in the process until the adoption of a marine plan by 2021. Here too, the law should lay down minimum requirements as to how and when stakeholders are involved. Land use planning on land has already been transferred to the Ministry of Business and Growth, and now land use planning at sea must also take place in the Ministry of Business and Growth. In SF, we believe that the planning law is best placed in the Ministry of the Environment to ensure that consideration of the natural basis, leisure life and the environment is always in touch with the individual decisions and plans. However, I would like to admit that, with this government, it may not make a big difference to the views of the Minister for the Environment. But this is another matter that we do not need to discuss right now. With those words, I would like to say that the SF supports the implementation of the EU directive so that it can enter into force in time and that we will work in committee for the changes to the law that I have already mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, precisely to maintain it in the Ministry of the Environment, but also to ensure a proper consultation process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172008	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172013	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal. It is an implementation of both the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the framework for maritime spatial planning in Danish law. It makes sense to take care of land-use planning at sea in this way too. As well as having a plan law at home, which leads to many discussions, also many problems for the development of Danish society, it is also important to take care of and to be a little forward-looking about the development of the sea. That is why we are confident that until 2021 the Minister will take the lead in making sensible arrangements with regard to marine planning, because of course we must take account of developments at sea as well as having a physical planning law at home. That is why we, the Conservatives, can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172112	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172118	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for the many comments on the legislative proposal and also for the support that I note here at first reading. The proposal we are discussing here today is, of course, a framework for new growth opportunities for Blue Denmark, and it is also an opportunity for us to continue to take good care of our environment. These two things do not conflict with each other, although I understand that there are rapporteurs who want to make it appear as if it is, in other words that we cannot both have growth opportunities and protect our environment. That can be done, and that is why I think it is important to emphasise it at the beginning of my speech. At the same time, the EU directive on maritime spatial planning is being implemented in the way that the proposal also says, namely that maritime planning aims to create greater transparency, better and more efficient procedures, increased security for investments in maritime sectors and better opportunities for sustainable development at sea and to safeguard Danish maritime interests vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries. After all, this is an overall framework, and the plan for the sea is intended to contribute to greater predictability, openness and, above all, clear rules for the users of the sea. Hopefully, this will also help to boost the development of renewable energy sources, to safeguard protected marine areas and to promote investment in, for example. oil, gas, sand and other natural deposits on the seabed in a sensible way. The interest in the Danish sea areas is already great. A few rapporteurs have also mentioned this and it is also to be expected that this interest will be strengthened in the coming years. The proposal must therefore also help to open up new opportunities for growth for Danish companies while, of course, ensuring both nature and the marine environment in the best possible way. There is no doubt that this will be an exciting progress towards March 2021, and it is also true, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said, that we are in relatively good time. We are not then in relation to getting the overall framework in place, where we have the autumn here in 2016 as the deadline, but it is true that with regard to the specific content we have a number of years to work on. What is important for me to say here today is that the first Danish marine plan should at least be ready for 2021. We haven't decided when it should be exactly and several rapporteurs have also questioned how and how this is going to happen. There I think it is important to say that the preparation of the plan will take place in agreement with and also with the involvement of all relevant interest groups, authorities concerned and users of the sea. That is, of course, the concern some people have expressed today from the platform, and I would like to say that this must of course be a completely open and transparent process. After reading the hearings, you can see that they say many different things. In general, there is support for the proposal, but it is clear that there are of course also some who would have liked to have clarified how and how the process is going to be so precisely, and that is why I would also like to say to the Enhedsliste that this is how the process is going to be, bearing in mind that all votes must of course be heard in this context. The government has absolutely no intention that there are things that should not be discussed or things that should not be asked about. It is also important to say that the marine plan should not be a competitor to the maritime sectoral policies that exist. On the contrary, it must be holistic and a management tool that can contribute to, and not least coordinate, sectoral policies for the benefit of all users in the maritime space. It is certainly also about us being able to try to predict what we will need in the future. We do this, I think, best in a way that ensures that the sea-related authorities now together create a common and future-oriented planning for the sea, with a focus on both use and protection, which is why I naturally also hope that there will be a good and constructive debate and, above all, some good issues during committee reading. But it is certainly important for me to stress that it is not the case that one consideration is above the other, and that is the concern raised by some in this Chamber today. But with that I would like to say that I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172559	Thank you. There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172605	If, in my rapporteur's speech, it sounded as if I thought there was always a contradiction, then at least that was not the intention. In fact, I believe that there is often a co-play. We have very fragile marine environments, which is why it is clear that growth and business will suffer if, for example, we do so. destroy breeding areas and other things, not least our fishing industry. So there is, of course, sometimes a connection between taking account of the environment and business interests. There are also times when they conflict with each other. I have to say that with the processes that we have been through, about the manure gate and the manure law and the other planned law being discussed, it is probably not surprising that we on the part of the opposition can be a little concerned about whether these environmental considerations are going to weigh heavily enough. That is why I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is prepared to work positively with the committee on some amendments which can create that security throughout the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172707	No debate in the Parliamentary Assembly without questions about N. To those who may not be agriculturally oriented, I would say that it covers nitrogen. I could see that the questioner looked very worried. But that is what is called nitrogen, that is, what is referred to in single-list language as slurry. Now manure contains more than just nitrogen. But in any case, we are a very cooperative government that always reaches out to the Enhedslisten, so if there are things that can be clarified and things that can be better done, then we should not cut off the possibility of it. We'd like that. However, I think we need to go a little further in relation to the concerns that have been raised here today. Some of the concerns raised by Enhedslisten's side and I think that's quite fair... are not concerns that I share. In fact, I believe that this has been taken into account or that it will be taken into account. That is fair enough, because the rapporteur cannot necessarily know what lies behind some of the things contained in the draft law we are now dealing with first. But I think we will be able to find each other on a whole range of points. Whether it's enough with Enhedslisten, time has to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172809	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172812	Does one agree with the criticism made in some of the consultations that the directive of which the law is an implementation does not adequately reflect environmental issues? Is this one of the examples of not over-implementing the environmental component, perhaps under-implementing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172835	I mean, we've chosen to do a text-by-text implementation. You could always choose to go much further. It is fair enough that EU legislation is being over-implemented. Here we have chosen to stick to the decision taken in Brussels when we translate it into Danish legislation. But I do not think it can be said that this would compromise the environment. After all, I have made it clear several times in my speech today that this is not a either-or-but a boat-and-a-boat. I also believe that we may have to lower our guard a little on the Enhedslisten side so that we can now get a little closer to getting a certainty and certainty that what I am saying is actually what is supposed to happen when we then translate this law into the first marine plan, which is being made through an announcement. In this context, I would also like to say to the rapporteur that I myself attach a decisive importance to this, and I can say that today; it may well be that I am not a minister at that time; it may be that it is someone who comes from the wing that Enhedslisten supports that there must of course also be a long and open, transparent process in this regard, so that there will be a good consultation period. It is, of course, crucial, when this is done through announcements, that it is done on a sound and enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315172943	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315173003	The debate is open and I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315173019	Thank you for that, President. Most people come into a situation where they will need medical treatment. When you get a product out of your doctor on a prescription or go down and buy it over the counter, you assume that the medicine you are receiving is a good product, a safe product. That's what I'm talking about. That is why it is also very good that we should have a draft law before us today on clinical trials in relation to medicinal products. It is the case that the development of medicines is often a very complicated matter. There are a great many documentation requirements and safety requirements for it, because you need to know exactly what effect and what side effects it will have on humans, and therefore you are doing clinical trials. This is incredibly important for the future treatment of people and it is true, whether physical diseases, mental illnesses, infectious diseases or diseases, that you can vaccinate against getting it tested well, safely and well documented on people. We bear a very great responsibility for this. That is why this is a good legislative proposal and we support it from the Socialist side. What lies in the bill is that we should have put the decision on a regulation that was taken in the EU in 2014 into Danish legislation, and we should have a Danish framework for how it is that we should manage these very things, so that we also get the organisational framework in place. What is the overall objective of the regulation, which has therefore been decided within the framework of the European Union, is to guarantee the rights of the subjects and to ensure that the quality of the experiments is improved. The clinical trials are crucial for the pharmaceutical industry, as I have mentioned, and therefore we must also be sure that the data are collected which can provide the basis for the authorisation of medicinal products for human use. That is what is in the regulation, and we in the Socialist Group think that this is a very good thing. A decision has already been made on this, but also the way it is intended to be implemented and organised here in Denmark looks very good. There are many of the responses to the consultation, and they commend the amendments proposed here as being clear, building a flexible framework and procedures for clinical trials on medicinal products. And that is what we need to support. That is the only way in which I would like to say anything other than what I have said, namely that the Socialists support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315173321	There are no brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315173328	Thank you. After all, it was a few years ago that we last stood here and dealt with part of the same regulation on emergency trials on inhabited persons, and it did so that there was massive publicity at that time. And we actually got a lot of e-mails and visits from insecure citizens. There is simply too much uncertainty about these EU regulations, namely whether these experiments are of benefit to firms or to individual patients. In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that the individual citizen should be asked and indicate whether one wants to be involved in an attempt. Ethically, we think it is wrong to experiment with patients who have not been able to indicate themselves whether they want to participate. And if we go in and look specifically at the proposal, there are a number of things that we cannot support, for example. Clinical trials with medicinal products in humans. As a patient, you should be able to consent to participate in the trial. Paragraph 4, which deals with experiments on children, has used the phrase that children between 5 and 15 years of age should as far as possible be heard about their participation. And there is a blank cheque for the Minister for Health to be able to lay down rules at any time. According to Section 5, paragraph 5. 2, 3 and 4 it is also the Sitting Minister for Health who may lay down detailed rules on the content of the participant information, the form and qualifications of the signature of the person who provides the oral information and receives the informed consent of the subject. And the Minister for Health may lay down detailed rules on consent and participation in trials for persons who may be subject to special pressure for participation in a clinical trial on medicinal products. This means that you go out there and issue a blank cheque to the Minister for Health who is now sitting there at the time. It may well be that I have very great respect for the current Minister for Health • that I have and I trust that nothing will happen about it, but how about in 5 years, in 10 years, in 20 years? Then it is the current Minister for Health who can decide how to give information and consent or how to get this informed consent. As far as clinical research of new medicines is concerned, it is important to continue this development. We still believe that this should be done, but we also believe that it is necessary to find out how the citizen or patient can give consent. In fact, this is something we are debating very much, including when we talk about health data: how can we ensure that we can decide for ourselves in an easy way whether we want to participate in research or not? That is why I think that the Minister should do a little more to find out exactly how we in Denmark could have these declarations of consent drawn up. The bill also introduces the amendment that it is not necessary to give your signature, but simply to be informed that you are getting some medicine. There are also some of the questions raised by the hearing, for Article 30 (1) of the regulation. 2 specifies that consent by the simplified method can be obtained for low-intervention trials after the patient has been informed as described in the protocol and that the information method must be described in the protocol. This allows a brief oral information from the doctor to be documented in the medical record, and then the patient is in the trial. And it worries us in the Danish People's Party that it can be so easy on these points. A number of questions have been put to it, and it is also stated somewhere, that it is of course necessary to examine whether it has been indicated whether or not to take part in these emergency trials. But I would like to ask the Minister, and perhaps I will, when the Minister comes up here, how and where one can indicate that one has objections to participating in emergency trials. Where can you do that today? Can we do it on health.dk, or can we do it in our journal? Can we make sure that if we don't want to be involved in experiments, we get it written down? Because what is important is that we can take a stand on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315173813	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315173819	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with the proposal for a law on clinical trials of medicinal products. Innumerable experiments are currently being carried out on both humans and animals. These are trials to improve and refine treatment, the efficacy of medicinal products and reduce side effects, and this is beneficial for patients who have a need for treatment. It is absolutely crucial that, if we are to strengthen the development of new medicines and better treatment, which can benefit patients as soon as possible, we have to have a look to improve, adapt and make the framework for how clinical trials are not only approved but also followed up. Having said that, it is important for me to stress that it is essential for us in the Left that we always have a strong focus on the subjects, so that rights, security, dignity and well-being are protected as the bill says. Generally speaking, clinical trials are regulated in an EU regulation, which in Denmark is implemented in two legislations: the Committee Act and the Pharmaceutical Act. The draft law here brings together the pharmaceutical law and the committee law into a single law supplementing the regulation, and it will, in the future, be a new regulation of clinical trials on medicinal products on humans and animals. It is essential, when developing or further developing treatment methods, that this should be done in a safe and proper manner, so that both the rights of the subjects are respected and, at the same time, valid test data are obtained. The new regulation will ensure equal approval, implementation and monitoring of trials on medicinal products across the EU, as well as ensuring the rights of subjects, enhancing the quality of trials and increasing the number of trials on medicinal products with a better framework. In order to make the system in Denmark more flexible, it is proposed that the 12 regional committees dealing with pharmaceutical applications today should be brought together to fewer but more specialised committees specialising in drug trials. The Danish Medicines Agency and the Scientific Committees also have to coordinate applications and follow-up on experiments, and this means that new requirements for information exchange on e.g. the basis for validation of applications. One thing is the demands that must be made in the future to companies that apply for authorisation to carry out clinical trials and to the way in which supervision and authorisations are organised, something completely different is what to say about the people who participate in drug trials. It is vital that they be protected. Informed consent is a matter of course prior to participation in clinical trials, but there are groups which, for one reason or another, are unable to give informed consent, and those groups we have a special obligation to look after and protect. The regulation lays down stricter requirements for tests on persons who are unable to give their own consent, so that persons unable to act, minors and pregnant women meet with special protective measures. As I mentioned at the outset, the aim of the draft law here is that, among other things, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. an improvement in the framework for both patients and the pharmaceutical industry, but also the creation of a common EU portal for applications. This IT tool will ensure the exchange of data on clinical trials across the EU and will be expected to be completed in 2018. Finally, I should like to mention that the costs associated with the approval of clinical trials and their follow-up are financed by the stakeholders using the system. It can be private companies, hospitals and research institutions. In conclusion, the Left supports this proposal as it has been put forward. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they are also voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315174249	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315174257	Thank you. It is, of course, a relatively technically heavy bill to get through, I must admit, but when you get to the very last part, there is a rather controversial proposal among them. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has already mentioned this, and we have discussed it here in the Assembly earlier this is now 5-6 years ago and it concerns the possibility of making tests on patients who are unconscious. And that is controversial, because it is clear that when you are unconscious, you cannot consent to an experiment. Today it is the case that you can actually do tests on unconscious people, but you have to ask a doctor who is not involved in the experiment. He is then a trial guardian and has to give consent, and then he has to give his own consent. What lies in this proposal is the removal of the requirement that there should be an experimental guardian. We cannot support this on the part of the Enhedslisten. We already find it highly controversial that tests can be carried out on patients who cannot give their consent because they are unconscious and that additional requirements can be removed so that they can be done more easily, we are not in favour of them. I also think that there are some other elements in the draft law that deserve some comments. First of all, I believe that the rapporteur of the Left has just called it flexibility. Yeah, you could call it that. One might also call it what I think it is: a violent centralisation of the system we have which takes a position on ethics in experiments. It is the case today that we have scientific ethics committees, where there are both ordinary representatives of citizens and patients, what we call lay members, and then there are health professionals. They sit regionally, and what we're going to see with this bill is that many decisions are moved centrally to the central scientific ethics committees. Here there will be less representation of ordinary citizens than there is today, and there will be the possibility that the President, who is to be a health professional, will be able to make decisions without consulting the Scientific Committee if the deadlines so require. And it's actually the same thing in this bill that the deadlines are pretty tight. I would say that it is rare for me to see legislative proposals that regulate deadlines as detailed as this one. We're down to 5 days to one, 7 days to the other, 12 days to the third and 26 days in total, etc. Imagine if citizens had the same rights around, for example. in relation to having a complaint dealt with in the Appeals Board for the Patient Compensation. It was a parenthesis. But that means that this power, which the President has, can take decisions if the deadline so requires, can actually be timely and we risk taking decisions about what scientific experiments we will approve in Denmark without there being a real debate about it. All in all, I think it is a legislative proposal and a regulation from the European Union that takes far too much account of the pharmaceutical industry, research institutions and others who want to research, and to far too little account of the citizen's perspective. The balance has simply been tipped in the wrong direction. Perhaps this is because what you want with this is, what to say, to make it easier to make scientific experiments, but also from a Danish perspective to make yourself attractive in the competition to attract experiments. I think that's what helps you get so eager to look attractive. So the bottom line is that we are voting no, just as we did back 5-6 years ago, the last time this matter was dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315174711	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315174718	Thank you. Experiments and research are crucial to the development of medicines and treatments, which are of great importance for our survival and our quality of life. However, it is important that the conditions surrounding the trials respect the rights and safety of subjects. The main purpose of the regulation is to safeguard the rights of subjects and therefore the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal. A further aim is to improve the quality of experiments and increase the number of experiments. New procedures must provide shorter time limits and a common EU portal for applications is established. The starting point is that subjects must always give prior consent prior to participation in research projects, and this is a very important point for the Liberal Alliance. In the case of minors, consent shall be given by the holder of custody. However, if the person has reached the age of 15, he or she must also give his or her consent and it must be respected if he or she does not wish to participate. The Regulation also provides that, as far as possible, subjects between 5 and 15 years of age should be consulted on their position on participation in the trial and, if it is considered that they are able to have a position, that position should be respected. For persons under guardianship, consent must be given by the guardian. If, under guardianship, the person is able to form an opinion, an explicit request from the person concerned shall be taken into account. In the case of persons unable to act, the consent of the next of kin and of a so-called trial guardian who is a doctor who is responsible for the subject's interests but who must be independent of the trial, both financially and professionally. In acute cases such as heart attack or stroke, acute drug trials may be carried out without prior consent if a number of requirements are met, including: that it is not possible to obtain prior consent; that the trial may confer a direct clinical benefit on the subject; that the trial carries a minimal risk and burden on the standard treatment; and that the subject has not previously raised any objections to participating in the clinical trial. I would like to ask you to take up the provisions relating to urgent cases in the further work of the committee. I hope that the Minister will be open to a more precise wording. I do not find it so reassuring that it says that the experiment can but, as I said, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315175038	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315175045	The aim of the bill is to establish an administrative framework for clinical trials and thereby comply with the EU regulation on it. As a starting point, the alternative is positive with regard to the proposal, as the regulation must ensure the rights of subjects and the development of reliable trial data. However, we also have some criticisms about the proposal. The fact that foreign pharmaceutical companies are given the opportunity to look up patient records directly is not something we are particularly pleased about and, as the hearing from the Institute for Human Rights points out, there should be a separate authorisation from patients for this. However, it also has the positive side that it gives pharmaceutical companies better opportunities to improve their products on a direct basis with patient data. This is a difficult balance and we would call for a close eye to be kept on how this access is implemented and, above all, used. The composition of the ethics committees so we would like to be slightly different, much like with an odd number and a narrow majority of laymen. But there is also the positive aspect here, namely that it seems that there is a line on the part of the Ministry in adapting the draft law to the responses received, and we expect that line to continue in committee. In addition, we would also call for close attention to be paid to the appropriateness of the relationship between the deadlines and the resources allocated to the committees in Denmark so that they can work quickly and effectively. All in all, however, we are positive about the proposal, but with the attention I have mentioned here. And I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur and say that they are also positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315175226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315175233	Thank you. From the SF's point of view, I should also like to say that we think it is reasonable that this discussion, which has filled many places, should be dealt with. This is perhaps a rather niche discussion, because it is often something that people only realise when they are in the situation in question. Overall, I would like to say that we basically support the creation of clear guidelines for clinical trials. However, when I have some reservations, it is because, as both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the Danish People's Party's rapporteur mentioned earlier, it naturally raises a number of questions, in terms of how we ensure the involvement of the citizen and when that should happen. Having said that, I think it is necessary to acknowledge that there are some situations in which it must be difficult both for the next of kin if they can even be present but not least for the doctor to make a concrete assessment of whether to embark on something, yes, almost experimental, because the situation may be so acute that one has to take action with the best that one has learned. And sometimes it's also that you don't test things that may not be wildly documented. So, of course, it raises a number of ethical discussions and ethical issues that we also have to deal with, and that is why I believe that this is something that will, hopefully, give rise to a longer discussion in the committee, where we will just have a look at how to guarantee citizens' rights in the best way possible, while, of course, we also have to ensure that we have substantiated clinical research so that in the end we ensure that more Danes, more citizens in general, are given the opportunity to receive the best possible treatment. However, there are a number of questions which I hope will be answered in the current committee procedure, but hopefully also in a broad discussion between the parties towards the final adoption of this bill. As I have said, the SF's starting point is that we are going to support the bill, but we have a number of questions that we want to get answered in the further committee process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315175437	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Health and the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315175451	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for a good and nuanced debate today, which I fully recognise is based on a legislative proposal which is also complicated on a number of points. However, I think that today's debate shows the entire Parliament's interest in finding together the best possible solutions for clinical trials on medicinal products. This is important, and it is for many reasons. It is, first and foremost, because those experiments are a key element in the process of developing new and better medicines. Tests shall help to demonstrate whether a medicinal product is working and whether there is the necessary safety and quality. And only when the scientific evidence is in order must a medicine be on the market. A side effect of this is that clinical trials help promote growth and ensure good jobs in the pharmaceutical industry, including here in Denmark. We should therefore also be pleased that there will be a new regulation with a comprehensive and common regulation of trials across the European Union. The rules of the bill must ensure that this regulation can work in Denmark. Both the regulation and the legislative proposal are based on key principles of the current regulation. This applies in particular to the continuation of a number of quality standards on good clinical practice, but it also applies to the general principle that trials may only be conducted if the rights and safety of the subjects are protected. Consent to participation is absolutely crucial in this context. As we have discussed in the debate here today, it may be the consent of the subject himself or a specially appointed representative. Here we must, among other things. Consider that a trial may not only be a risk to the subjects; it may also be a good chance to try a more effective treatment. The regulation will also make a number of significant changes. In particular, they shall be introduced: greater technical cooperation between countries and greater transparency of experimental data. Of particular importance is the introduction of a new model for the assessment of experimental applications. In future, they must be submitted to a common EU portal, where they are dealt with in procedures with short deadlines between the countries where an experiment is intended to be carried out. However, the ethical aspects of the subjects still need to be assessed separately in each country. In order for the new application procedure to work in practice, it is necessary to adjust the procedures between the Danish Medicines Agency and the committee system. I am very confident that the proposed organisation of the committee system will ensure that it is operational. The setting-up of independent committees specializing in drug trials must necessarily promote a qualified procedure which can be specifically targeted on specific aspects of medicinal products. At the same time, I expect that the centralisation of the assignment will facilitate cooperation between the pharmaceutical committees and the Danish Medicines Agency, both in relation to the assessment of applications within strict time limits and in the ongoing monitoring and control of individual trials. The requirements for consent, including in acute situations, are largely contained in the Regulation. At the same time, however, I am also satisfied that the requirement for a substitute consent is left to national legislation. This allows us to draw up rules that are precisely suited to Danish views in the sensitive situations where a subject cannot give his or her own consent. It is my impression that there is satisfaction with the proposed requirements for the substitution consent of the different groups of subjects. Especially in the hearing, there has been such a positive attitude to the new concept of guardianship that it is wanted to be introduced as soon as possible. I have, of course, agreed to this with a proposed entry into force on 1 July of this year. I have also responded to a number of other requests from the hearing, among others. a statement that the access to medical records proposed by the Committee Act and the pharmaceutical law will also enter into force on 1 July of this year. These are merely clarifications and adjustments in relation to the current rules on access to data as part of checks. It is only good to have those rules clarified as soon as possible. We could then continue to review the new regulation that we will have with the regulation and the legislative proposal for a long time, but it will take some time before the regulation is finally ready for use. First, some major IT systems for the exchange of data between countries need to be developed at both EU and national level. They are expected to be ready by 2018. And when the regulation is ready, the new law on clinical trials must come into force at the same time. But even if the law does not come into force for a few years, I see it as a great advantage that the proposal will be adopted in this session. This allows us to start now implementing the proposed reorganisation of the whole committee system. Then the committees are quite ready when the overall regulation is also in place, and until then, fortunately, we have both the committee law and the pharmaceutical law. I look forward to the further debate on the bill. I was able to hear that there was already an alert on a number of follow-up questions as part of the further examination of the committee which, of course, I am making available to you in order to get an answer. Moreover, I look forward to continued good cooperation on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180108	There is one brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180115	There is. This is exactly the question I asked from the platform. If I do not want to take part in an attempt, and if one day I get hurt and become unconscious in some way or other, how can I make it known? Is this something that the Minister will be working on, that is to say, that we will have a system in which we can make it known so that it appears when you look at the record if they are admitted?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180143	Was it a question in relation to what the rapporteur also addressed in his rapporteur's speech about the concern about the rules of the regulation on emergency trials, that is, if a citizen does not want to participate in an experiment, where is it that the citizen can go and tell it? It is the case that if the investigator is aware that the subject concerned has previously raised objections to participating in the clinical trials, the subject may not participate in the trial. That is clear directly from the regulation. At the same time, the Commission has set up an ad hoc group of experts, including: should examine the interpretational issues of the Regulation, where Danish representatives from the Danish Agency for Medicinal Products and the Secretariat of the National Scientific Committee are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180239	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180241	If I fall out on the street and be brought into a hospital and are incompetent and my relatives are not present, how can you be aware of what I have said in the past if it is not written anywhere? They have our file where they have all our information. It should be possible to do it in the file, so when you get it opened, there are those things. A doctor who finds me somewhere doesn't know what I've said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180317	However, at the same time, the rules are also such that, if one has one, one's relatives or the trial guardian must give their consent in the situation in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180329	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180335	I actually have a clear question in relation to the number of scientific ethics committees, because it is clear from the draft law that the Minister for Health and the Elderly can set up one or more science-sethical pharmaceutical committees. How does the Minister himself read that? Because I believe that this creates a little ambiguity in relation to how many, if any, there should be, and not least when the regions have to appoint some people for this. Can the Minister explain this now or, if necessary, in writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180401	The number of pharmaceutical committees must be adapted to the number of applications and trials, and I expect that there will be a first need to set up a total of three pharmaceutical committees. It is estimated to be sufficient to process applications and monitor trials, etc. of the 300 or so clinical trials carried out each year at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180425	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180429	I think that is a good thing, and I do not disagree with the Minister in that respect, but I think that when you come down to paragraph 7, you may well be able to follow up on it a little uncertain as to how it should be interpreted, if so, when the President's vote becomes decisive in the end. That is clear from section 7, paragraph 7. (3) that the Chair should be able to rule on cases which have not been referred to the Medical Committee. How exactly is that supposed to be understood? Because there is at least a slight lack of clarity in relation to who, if so, in the Committee, can take the final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180512	I would also very much like to give more detailed answers to the questions that Members and rapporteurs may have, but what is essential for us to be able to ensure that the new committees can function effectively and within the new deadlines is that the President or, if necessary, the Vice-President can take decisions on behalf of the Committee. Of course, this can only happen when a case does not give rise to any doubt or when it is otherwise necessary. This may be for the safety of the subjects, or for Denmark simply to be able to respond within the time limits of the different procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180550	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180612	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315180629	Thank you very much, President. This bill is about a change in the health code, and it is the right to a rapid investigation and a guarantee of treatment. For us Social Democrats, it is crucial that all Danes can count on free and equal access to fast investigation and treatment of high quality if they become ill. It must not be the thickness of the wallet or your postal code that determines which treatment you can receive. We will never accept a division into an A and a B team, and we will always fight inequality. We will always fight for the Danes to have as much health as possible for the money. That is why we are opposed to over-treatment and over-payment of private hospitals. The proposal we are considering today contains three parts. Firstly, the study patients, i.e. patients who have to have a diagnosis of a possible disease, will be included in the extended free hospital choice when, for capacity reasons, the region cannot provide them within one month. Secondly, patients who have been referred and assessed will have the right to seek treatment elsewhere if the region cannot offer them treatment within one month. Thirdly, that the Minister should also be able to lay down requirements for the content and design of the information materials that patients must already have on their rights regarding the extended free choice of hospital. When we sat with government responsibility, one of our main priorities was to reduce waiting times, and we succeeded. The waiting time was at the lowest level ever when we left government offices. We achieved this result with a combination of a strong political focus, a good job from both health workers and the regions, and a sensible involvement of both public and private capacities. In fact, the number of referrals from the regions to private actors struck all records in the first half of 2015, and it must be noted that without the cost taking the same flight. We are proud of this in the Social Democratic Party. But short wait for treatment is not worth much if you cannot quickly find out what is wrong. That is why we introduced a one-month right of investigation for both physical and mental disorders. Exploration and treatment go hand in hand, but we must also recognise that, although a reinforced focus on investigation is the right way to go, the right way to do this has not worked well enough. And that is why we are in favour of patients being given the opportunity to look elsewhere if the region cannot complete them within the time limit. However, it is also important for us that this new space of opportunity for the patient does not end up as a vacuum where the patient is left alone, as several consultation answers point out. As far as the treatment guarantee is concerned, we share the intention that patients should be treated quickly. The waiting times, as I said earlier, were a central focus of the previous government. It must remain so, and therefore it is important that all available capacity, public and private, be involved for the benefit of patients. As I explained earlier, there was also a broad involvement of private actors within our government, and we note with satisfaction that the government has now chosen, in its consultation note, to listen more to the Competition Authority than to the private hospitals when it comes to the regions' ability to negotiate reasonable prices in the future too. Against this background, we see no immediate danger that the golden cocks will run again, as they did in the '00s, and that is why we can also support this part of the proposal. However, we intend, in close cooperation with patients' associations, professional organisations and regions, to keep a close eye on the consequences of the proposal, because it is important that the proposal does not lead to over-payment, over-treatment or flight of personnel from the public sector such as the one we saw in the 00s. In addition, the proposal must not hinder coherent patient processes or lead to a downgrading of the patient groups referred to in the analysis and treatment in the primary sector, such as private practitioners. That is why we will also be working to ensure that, after a few years, we have a thorough evaluation of the effects and consequences of this bill. The Socialists support the proposal with those comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181136	There are three who wanted to make brief comments. First, Mrs Stine Brix, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181142	After all, there is one thing that the Socialist rapporteur did not say at all, and that is that this is a total change of direction on the part of the Socialist Group, which came during the night. 3.00 published at Altinget that the Social Democrats now support in future that private hospitals should be able to be chosen by the patient after 30 days of treatment and also after investigation. I do not think that there is any argument in the rapporteur's speech as to why it is that the Socialists change course so suddenly and so drastically. It is also apparent that the Social Democrats' own regional presidents have not understood this either, because you can read in a speech in Politiken today from Sophie Hæstrup Andersen, regional chairman of the Capital Region, and Ulla Astman in North Jutland that these patients' rights are distorted, are detrimental to the weakest patients and are poor use of health crowns. So what happened last night at 9:00 a.m.? Three o'clock?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181252	Yes, we do have the habit of working quickly in the Social Democratic Party, but we do not come to such a deliberate decision as this one. Just as I say in my rapporteur's speech, it was successful that when we had a red government in Denmark, we focused on bringing down waiting times. It happened. And this happened because there was a completely different situation in the relationship around private hospitals and asking the public to make use of private capacity. It was, of course, back in the '00s, as I also outlined in my rapporteur's speech, that there was a favouritism, an overpayment. There isn't today. And that is why the regions are in a situation where they have become very skilled at making tenders and negotiations with private hospitals and clinics, so that they have a proper quality at an absolutely proper price. And that is the starting point for us, as Social Democrats, to say that there may now be an opportunity to meet the expectations of even faster treatment and investigation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181402	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181405	The rapporteur says that this is because there was an overpayment in the past, that it is not there now and that that is the change. However, that has not been the argument used by the rapporteur himself, nor by the Socialist Presidents of the Council of the Regions in politics today. The argument used is, of course, that a 30-day treatment guarantee makes it difficult to prioritise between patients and means that resources flow to those patient groups where there is competition, where the private is an alternative, to the detriment of those patient groups where there is no competition and where there is no private hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181446	No, and in fact there is also a connection between what Mrs Stine Brix says that two Social Democratic Regional Council Presidents are saying and what we are thinking here in the Social Democrats at Christiansborg. These are the same concerns we have. That is also what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. We have some attention points: the fact that there must and the inequality we are talking about here is both geographical inequality, social inequality and inequality between patient groups. That is why we are raising the flag, and that is why I say in my rapporteur's speech that we will keep a very, very close eye on the government and that we will ensure that this is followed closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181534	The next brief remark is Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181539	I find it striking that the Socialist rapporteur says that it should be almost a common thread in the policy of the Socialists, because if you look at what the rapporteur himself said just six months ago, you can see that the rapporteur said: in terms of rapid analysis, one of the problems is that there are no specialists in a number of areas. With the government's actions, we risk drawing key people from public to private hospitals, and then the problems are getting worse. Today, as the Enhedslisten also mentioned a moment ago, we can read in the Politiken about it. And I would like to quote what Ulla Astman and Sophie Hæstorp Andersen, who are regional presidents of the Region of North Jutland and of the Capital Region, and who are social democrats, writes in a debate post: "But we believe that this is a completely wrong way to use our tax dollars and our health care professionals at a time when we are among other things. discussing whether we can afford new and expensive medicine. I have to admit that I think it is a striking if not a U-turn that the Socialists are making. Can the rapporteur explain the context? What the rapporteur is saying now is totally contradictory to what the rapporteur himself said earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181653	No, it's not. That is because things have changed very significantly. I would just like to say to the rapporteur that the rapporteur himself was a member of a government party when we focused on waiting times and had them as one of the greatest and most important priorities. We are now in a situation in which the regions have the possibility of and they have been practicing it for a very long time, very good procurement with the private hospitals, which means that the money is not pouring out, but that we are getting very much for the money. And what we are getting is that there is an opportunity to further shorten the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181733	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181736	I can hear what you're trying to do, but I find it very difficult to see that there should be any thread in it. I would just like to quote once again: this is the wrong way to use our health funds and health professionals' resources. That is what two Social Democratic Regional Council presidents write in today's edition of Politiken. But perhaps you have not told your regional roots what you actually have of politics in this area, because it is thought-provoking that there are two Regional Council Presidents who have a Social Democratic party color who are today out in politics and completely contradict what the rapporteur is saying from the parliamentary platform today. It is they who are responsible for day-to-day affairs. Can't the rapporteur himself see the irony of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181819	I think the rapporteur has understood that I am saying that what is the concern of the Regional Council Presidents is also our concern, but that we see a real possibility that we can improve conditions for patients because things have changed and things have actually changed a lot. I think the rapporteur can also recall that, when we had a red government, we set aside more money for health. And what did we drop the money for? We also made it possible to increase capacity, and that is what is at present at this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181847	The next brief remark is from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181852	Thank you. What I remember most clearly from when the Socialists were last in government is that the Socialists, with the support of the rest of the left, weakened patients' rights. That is why it is gratifying today to see that the Socialists have become wiser. This has happened quite suddenly, I have to say, because I find it difficult to understand that this is a very well-considered decision, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen said a moment ago. If it were very well thought out, there could also be the possibility that others outside Christiansborg, who are also members of the same party, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen is, maybe was involved in the decision. However, I very much welcome the fact that the Socialists now support the government's policy. A question here for a start: is it not true that it was the Socialists who reduced patients' rights when it comes to guaranteeing treatment during the last period?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315181958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182001	The situation when we took over the government power in 2011 was that there had been such a favoritism of private hospitals with very high tariffs on the part of the bourgeois government. That's what the Reich Audit said. What we did was that we took stock of the situation in 2011, and there we said that at that time there was a need to make a medical assessment of who had to be treated first and fastest and who could wait longer. The situation is different today. There are many things that have changed, and that is why our position is now as it is. And with regard to patients' rights, I should just like to mention that those who introduced the right of investigation and gave patients a right here were the Social Democratic-led government. The bourgeois government, with the Left as a governing party, is now following up on this, and we are only very happy about it. We are also very pleased that this is being co-treated, as we also did in 2011, precisely to say that it is a question of patients finding out if they are wrong, but it is also a question of obtaining rapid treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182110	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182113	However, we supported the right of rapid investigation during the last period of government, and we are now really giving substance to it. The problem is, of course, that the Socialists stand here and pride themselves on the fact that it is the Socialists who have provided an explanation guarantee, but only six out of ten patients have really got an explanation on time, and that is not so good. That is why we are now making an improvement on the proposal. And finally, is it not true that the arbitration board which was called upon to determine the price is, in fact, something that was adopted in the time of the previous government, that is, in the time of the bourgeois government? The last government didn't do anything in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182156	As far as I remember, the Left did not support the right of investigation because it was dealt with at the same time as the differentiated treatment guarantee. And it is quite true that there was an arbitration procedure, but then I just want to say something that the Red Government did. It was, after all, in relation to employer-paid health insurance. We also allowed the private hospitals to pay their own insurance if they were doing some work, rather than just sending the patients the bill to the public. So I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Left is cooperating in their presentation here, and I fully agree that it does not meet the demands we had when we had a social democratic government. That is also why we support that part of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182241	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182245	The rapporteur is trying to give the impression that the rapporteur's party colleagues in the regional councils simply share the same concern as the rapporteur. But that is not the case. They advise against the adoption of this proposal, while the rapporteur's party here in the Folketing wishes to endorse the adoption of this proposal. One of the bases on which they advise against this is the concern about what it means in relation to staff, especially specialists. And that is something that the rapporteur, as quoted before, has himself mentioned. What has happened since the rapporteur said a little six months ago that there is a risk that key staff will be drawn from public to private hospitals? What has happened since then when the concern that the rapporteur's colleagues in the regional councils still have is not a concern that makes the rapporteur completely clear as in the past that this proposal, which is in danger of taking exactly the same account of private hospitals at the expense of our common public hospitals, could be rejected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182348	Compared with the specialists, there has been the change that it is no longer as favourable and lucrative to operate private hospitals in Denmark as it was in the past. That is why we do not believe that there will be a drain on staff. However, I have said that this is one of our concerns, because it could lead to an inequality in our society. Unfortunately, we already have a great geographical inequality, because some of my own regions, for example, I live in a very poor category of specialists. That's why you don't have the capacity. Therefore, it is also our assessment that there will be no further shift in the negative direction here, because there is no incentive for specialists to travel from the public to the private sector, because the regions have become very skilled and experienced in making really good offers and thus getting it at the right price.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182440	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182444	But it must then have happened so quickly in the regions that the representatives of the regional councils themselves have not discovered it. And it has obviously also happened so quickly that the rapporteur, just six months ago, did not think that this was the case. So, I think it is quite clear that there has been a very violent change in the attitude of the Socialists. I think it is sad that the approach to it and the arguments that have been put forward for years have now been replaced, for why we should be careful to take care of private hospitals because it undermines our common public hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182526	I have said on many occasions, and I would also like to say here from the platform today that the Socialists are certainly not put in the world to support private hospitals. We are set in the world to support good treatment, a quick investigation for patients and citizens everywhere in Denmark. We have been there to make an assessment of what the situation is today, how things have changed while we had a social democratic government. And that means that we have a different starting point today, and that is what our position is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182555	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315182605	If anything, the Danish People's Party also wants us to have a proper investigation and treatment of the patients that we have, and that is why it was also something that we in the blue parties agreed before we went to the polls that we should work for after the elections if it was that we became part of the majority. But I also think that we have to say that we should not poke each other's eyes. Because the patients I'm talking to can't understand or see where this investigation is. There are patients who do not have diagnoses that cannot get the right help. There are patients who have diagnoses that are referred to elsewhere and are not covered by the right of investigation. We also heard another rapporteur say that it was six out of ten who were helped with the investigation. So it may well be that we are taking a step in the right direction, but we also have to say that more needs to be done than that. The Social Democrat rapporteur spoke of the need to eliminate inequality, and we have also discussed this fairly many times in here. But the question is, how do we get there? Because there is inequality in diagnoses, compared to where you are being treated. This means that if you are treated in a hospital, you can get a right and a guarantee, but if you like. have allergies and need to go to a specialist, you can't get an examination course, although there actually are allergic Gologs who have time to take care of some of these patients. We can also see that there is inequality in the agreements between the region. It is the region that has to make these agreements with either private clinics, specialists or whatever it may be, but some regions have made agreements, while others have not. So it's different, depending on the region you live in. So we also have to look in here at the inequality that exists, regardless of whether we are now taking a step in the right direction. That is also why I have been out to say that I would like us to also look at specialists who have private practice. Now I was on the subject of allergies just now, and not long ago we had a meeting of the Health Committee, where they came and told about the long waiting lists; people are on sick leave for a long time, they cannot get to work, and so it costs society an incredible amount of money. There I have received an email from an allergenist telling me that he has two patients every day and that he could easily take in more, but the region will not pay for it, and this is a matter that I will pass on to the Minister when we have to deal with this proposal. Because then it's inequality, compared to what's wrong. So I think there are a number of things that we will certainly take up. This isn't about whether it's public or private. It is about giving the citizens the best treatment. I usually make a little funny saying that I have a private and a public knee. My knees broke 12 years ago in a ski accident, and 10 years later it was an accident with a motorcycle on the road that made you just get a crack again. The first time I had this health insurance, which the Socialists are not so happy about, at least not when it was tax-free, but mine I pay myself. I used it, and it went quite quickly, very well, and on the same day I had been operated, I was actually in here asking questions to the minister. The next year, I went so wrong on this bike, and then it was the other knee. Then I think: I shall try the public sector now, because then I have tried both, and it is very good as a health politician. I called you in October after I got a referral, and the secretary says, "Well, don't you have private health insurance?" Yes, I do, but I won't use it, I'll answer. Then she says, "Why don't you want to, you really want to risk your life?" I thought, okay, that's what ordinary citizens do every day, if that's what they mean. But then she says that the ceiling had reached this crack limit and that I could only get a time the following year, so I took that time. It was then in January. Time passed, and before the knee was looked at at at all, it had been a whole year, which means that it had actually recovered. And then what they say is that we know that there are these investigations that say that we might be able to train it instead of an operation. But the question is whether we should not look at it a little more individually. Because if I had now had my job as a social and health assistant, I would not have been able to go for a year with a knee that could not be dealt with. Then I would have been on sick leave, and maybe I would have lost my job. So sometimes we have to look at what is best for the individual and whether it is the private who can take it quickly rather than the public, and that is what we have to choose. And then I would say that it does not just have to be because you have a job, it may also be Mrs Madsen who needs to go to the third floor, who needs to be treated more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183123	There is one brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183129	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sometimes you talk about politics based on gut feeling. In this case, maybe it's more of a knee sensation. Well, joke aside. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party addresses the fact that there is inequality in health, which is incontrovertible, and that there are also many patients waiting a long time for treatment. Some of the places where you wait a very long time for treatment are due to the lack of specialists. This is particularly true in children's and young psychiatry, neurology and rheumatology, to mention some examples. And we will by no means solve that by issuing some sort of guarantee. Because if there are no doctors who can look at you, it doesn't really matter that there is a guarantee. What I really want to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is that the chairman of the Danish Psychiatric Society, Torsten Bjørn Jacobsen, says in the Weekwriting for Doctors that he is very concerned about this guarantee. Because what he sees is that in order for you to live up to that guarantee, you take the light patients while the hardest patients are pushed in the back of the queue. That is why he believes that toast speeches can be okay, as he says, but that the consequence of the guarantee is that the most severely affected patients actually suffer and receive worse treatment. What does the Danish People's Party think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183248	Well, I fully agree with the concerns, because these are some of the things we have been able to see in children's psychiatry, where there have been a great many through the right of investigation, which has then not moved forward and received the treatment that they should have, because there have been some bottlenecks. But I do not think it would be better because we say that now there is more time, because then there is no pressure. We have to keep looking over our shoulder and ask how we can do better, because a lot has happened in the psychiatry of children. There have been shorter waiting lists and more are being treated. But that is not good enough, and that is also why I am saying that we should not stick one another in the eye and think that this is the solution to everything. We have to do a lot more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183328	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183331	The criticism here from Torsten Bjørn Jakobsen is that when you introduce a guarantee, it puts pressure on resources to move to where there is competition between the public and the private. This means that the guarantee will have a consequence for those patients that the private person is not interested in looking at at at all, for example. the severe schizophrenic patient or the psychotic patient, or for the specialties where there are no doctors to recruit. And that is why it has a direct consequence of less treatment and less explanation for the patients whom we allerallmost owe to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183414	I do not entirely agree with that, because I have also been approached by psychiatrists who are private practitioners and who do not get any agreements, but who could have been used by the region. I think it suggests that it is more about will. We have private clinics that deal with eating disorders. Now we have just had a meeting today with some people who tell us how cruel it is and that you cannot get treatment in public if you have an eating disorder. And there we have had several private clinics that could help these people, but which just do not have an agreement with the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183444	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183448	I can understand why you want to strengthen private hospitals. I think that can be an honest matter. But I find it rather difficult to understand the argument used by the Danish People's Party. You have to use the capacity all the way around. We can quickly agree on that. But does the Danish People's Party also consider that it is an advantage if doctors are employed in the private sector, or is it an advantage if they are employed in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183514	Doctors must be employed where they think they do the most good. As I said, we are not in favour of one thing or another. We want a public health service adapted to everyone, but we also need to use the private ones as the buffer they can be in order to take some of these waiting lists problems. And, of course, they have made a very big blow to the VK government. There were very, very many who got away from the waiting lists that were at the time when they came to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183542	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183543	It is very telling that you think the doctors should decide for themselves. My guess would just be that if the doctors have to decide for themselves, they'll go where they can get the highest pay. The doctors cannot be blamed for this either, but you can blame the politicians who end up having to distribute the same bag of money. After all, there are not very many doctors; there is still a shortage of them. In other words, you will end up giving doctors a golden opportunity to constantly push the price up. We saw that earlier, and I find it hard to imagine why it will not happen again. Is the rapporteur not concerned that we will again see overpayment of private hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183620	No, I'm not. It can only be the Socialist People's Party that thinks that you are going for the money and not for the place where you like to work where you can feel that you are doing something good. That means that all doctors go for the place where there is the most money. So the SF has to go a little further into the country with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183635	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315183647	Thank you. Today we are first treating the law on amending the Health Act, which is about a real right to rapid investigation and free hospital choice at 30 days' waiting time for treatment. The health of the Danes has always been a priority of the Left, and it will also be forward-looking. In the 2016 Finance Act, we have prioritised health and the elderly by 3.4 billion. kr., and that's a significant boost. In the government base it is clearly stated that strengthening the rights of Danish patients is a high priority. All patients must have a real right to rapid investigation, as it says. An old Left slogan says, "Man before the system." Although it is an old slogan, it is nevertheless what the draft law is all about today. With the bill here, as it stands, we strengthen the fundamental rights of Danish patients. In concrete terms, this means that Danish patients can now look forward to a real right to rapid investigation within one month. It is therefore a right of the patient to extended hospital choice when, for reasons of capacity, the region cannot offer an explanation within one month. That's common sense. For us, it is not crucial whether you are being investigated or treated in a public or private hospital. The Left's clear position is that all Danes should have the right to prompt treatment and investigation, whether they are physically or mentally ill. Unfortunately, the previous government, the SR government, reduced the VK government's 30-day treatment guarantee, and instead, the Danes received a so-called differentiated guarantee, which in practice meant that some patients could be treated within the framework of free hospital choice within 30 days, while the right to free hospital choice for other patients only enters into force after a waiting period of more than 60 days. The differentiated guarantee is basically an expression of bureaucratic thinking which puts the system before man and not vice versa. The VK Government's treatment guarantee, on the other hand, proved its worth. Last left was in government, the average waiting time for all operated dropped from 90 days in 2001 to 52 days in September 2011. But if we really have to ensure that we put the human being before the system, then it is also essential that you as a patient know your rights and get the right information. The former government's right of investigation is a hollow right because it is not really guaranteed the possibility of going to where the waiting time is shortest and thus opting out of the queue. All too often we have heard that the level of information can vary from region to region, which is why I am delighted that both Danske Regioner, the Association for Private Hospitals and Clinics and Dansk Occupation are positive in ensuring that correct information material is prepared for patients, so that as a patient you can make a hospital choice on an informed basis. As mentioned at the outset, the treatment guarantee and the right of investigation must be seen as part of a major overall health boost. Although the enhanced patient rights must be clearly seen in the light of this overall boost, they are also in themselves an expression of a fundamental attitude to how we weigh the relationship between system and individual. Where the previous government weakened patients' rights and thus the individual's opportunities in the system, we are now strengthening patients' rights and the individual's opportunities in the meeting with the health service, because all Danish patients now have real rights. Against this background, the Left will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184111	There is one brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184114	There's nothing new from the Left in this, you could say. Nevertheless, I would nevertheless like to ask the rapporteur of the Left why it is that the rapporteur of the Left is not more honest about what the agenda really is, namely to ensure a more stable flow of patients to the private sector at public expense. That's the purpose of this bill, exactly as it was back in the '00s. Because it is not true, as the rapporteur of the Left points out, that this is about guaranteeing a right for patients. By far, by far the largest groups of patients get nothing out of this bill; on the contrary, they risk less treatment when competition for the few, who suffer relatively uncomplicated suffering, takes place between the private and the public. That is the reality, it is the consequences we know them from the past. So why isn't it just honest that it's not about people before the system, it's about private hospitals before the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184219	The Left is very concerned that we have a strong public health service and that we have strong real rights for patients. Then we make use of the private hospitals as the supplement they can be. And we just have to see what the reality is: it is that we use approx. 4% of our total cost of hospitals in private hospitals. So the fact that we are now shoveling money over to the private hospitals is such a big scare-mongering picture, and the patients are not at all accurate. Here it is just that we want to put real content into the rights we want to give today, unlike the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184302	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184305	The rapporteur says that patients do not get caught. Yes, they do, because the complicated chronic patient doesn't go to a private hospital, no matter how the warranty goes. The psychiatric patient with a heavy disorder, e.g. Schizophrenia or psychosis doesn't go to a private hospital. The elderly medical patients, whom we know so well, who are today experiencing that they must lie on crowded times, do not go to a private hospital. However, it is from the areas that resources risk disappearing when competition sets in, and that is why it is those patients who most need our health care that pay the price for private hospitals to have a more stable flow of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184353	Here we just have to say that we then fundamentally disagree on what the consequence of this bill is. Left wants to add more money to health care in general. This leads us to add 450 million to the health service. kr. in 2017 and the years to come. It is precisely to give the boost that is needed in the health service, and indeed also to follow up the rights we give with this bill, so that there will be money to increase public capacity; and where public capacity is not present, the patient has a right to go elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184429	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184433	I assume that the Left is under pressure on employees up in their secretariat. It's just a assumption that it didn't go so well in the election and it didn't do it for the SF either. But let's say we're gonna hit half the damage. Will Mr. Hans Andersen saw, for example. You're gonna hire me for 15 hours at the Left Secretariat?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184452	No, and I don't think so, sir. Jonas Dahl himself would wish, even though it has become such a late Tuesday night. We have very qualified staff in the Left Secretariat, and we are very happy about them, and we are not looking for any at this time, so it will probably be a little difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184508	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184511	I will not go into the first comment on the working environment. But the point is pretty clear. I don't think that Mr. Hans Andersen would be employed in my secretariat. I'd pay for that, too, and I think so too, sir. Hans Andersen would. But we have the same problem in the hospitals as well. I find it difficult to understand that when you are employed in a public hospital, you must as a hospital manager or as a colleague see that employees are wandering into the private labour market. It is not necessarily after closing hours, but just after they have spent a few hours and received their full training in the public hospital, they have to work in private, where they can put the money in their pockets. Mr. Hans Andersen, that this is a fair labour market model?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184551	The Left wants a strong public health service and if we can create an even better health service for the benefit of our patients, if we include the capacity of private hospitals and the resources and knowledge that people employed in private hospitals also possess, then we will do so. We are not so concerned about whether this is going on in public or whether it is going on in private. We are, in fact, concerned that patients have a real opportunity to go somewhere and choose from the waiting time. But there are quite obvious differences between how we experience it and what we want in relation to patients and what the Socialist People's Party wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184633	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315184641	Thank you. I guess we're not so surprised against this bill. We were yesterday, and so are we today and tomorrow. The main aim of the bill is to ensure that private hospitals receive more tasks from the public authorities. That's the point. We saw it earlier in combination with overpayment and with tax exemption for private health insurance as an important tool for the then health minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen to pave the way for a more private health care system, and now we see it again. The guarantees that are being issued in this bill really benefit only a minority of patients. The vast majority of patients, on the other hand, are at risk of having a lower assessment or treatment, because it is obviously only a guarantee that is worth something for those patients for whom there is a private hospital who are ready to receive them. First and foremost, it is the relatively standardised, simple procedures, uncomplicated surgery of the knees, hips and backs and obesity operations, which we saw earlier, which are treated privately. Private hospitals can say no to complicated patients, because the concept of a standardized course here is not suitable for the severely chronically ill or for difficult cancer operations or patients who are difficult to provide and who are currently being sent around the system, or for the elderly medical patients who are already filling up well in hospitals. They're not possible to make money on. The processing guarantee is not relevant at all for the approximately 75%. of patients who are today acute patients and are thus hospitalized. On a great many specialties, we have a problem with the lack of specialists, and that is why there is a waiting time. This is deeply regrettable, but the solution is not to increase competition between the public and private sectors. The solution is that we get more specialists. Some people have also already asked in this debate whether it is worth noting that some people cannot use the guarantee if only a few patients benefit from it. No, it doesn't matter, because unfortunately it has and can have major consequences for those groups that are not covered by the guarantees of being able to go to a private hospital. We saw in the past that resources were transferred to those patient groups where there is competition between the public and private sectors, and thus there is a very high probability that resources will shift in the same way from the weakest patients, from the emergency departments, from the medical departments, from the psychiatric wards, to those patients who are in orthopedic surgery or have other less serious illnesses. This will increase inequality in health and not reduce it, as several people are talking about. This is the same thing as the chairman of the Danish Psychiatric Society, whom I have already highlighted once in the debate today, says, namely that for his thesis the losers will be the most insane with the most severe suffering. Toast speeches are fine, but the reality is just that. Another risk that we are going to see as a result of this proposal is that we are weakening the coherence of the patient care process. Instead of setting up a range of services for which private hospitals can offer services, for example: A single X-ray or a single examination of something else here and a single operation there, we really need to gather those units so that they can work together. Many of us have already visited some of the places where you are really good at it, for example. Diagnostic Center in Silkeborg. What is of great benefit is that, for example, the diagnostics, medical specialties, or, in the case of cancer, it could be surgery, oncology, etc., are assembled, can work closely together and are not broken up in a lot of different courses. There is a need for coherence and cooperation, not for us to split the processes further. I also believe that this is why the Medical Association, the nurses and the FOA are opposed to the bill, and I think that we should listen to the very talented staff we have in the health service, who tell us that this is not for the benefit of the patients who have the greatest need. Until today it was also a position that we shared with the Socialists, but we can understand that it is no longer, at least not the Social Democrats, who are in here at Christiansborg. The two Social Democratic Regional Council President, Sophie Hæstrup Andersen here in the capital and Ulla Astman in North Jutland, has a very good and precise discussion speech in today's Politiken, where they write that these patients' rights are adversely affected. They warn that the bill moves money from the weak patients to the strong, and that our health crowns are being used incorrectly. That is why I believe that the Socialists here in Christiansborg, like the other parties who vote in favour, are going wrong in the city on this bill, and I would at least like to say that I still think there is a need for a strong voice in favour of us investing in the public health service to solve these problems, and we must at least assume that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185213	There is one brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185217	Thank you. I do not understand the rapporteur. Why are some patients disadvantaged because others are better off? In other words, some patients may benefit from a treatment guarantee, after all, they do not put other patients at a disadvantage. If there was no treatment guarantee and everyone had to wait a long time, then everyone was at a disadvantage. If, then, someone can come to after 30 days, they will be better off, but why are the others worse off?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185251	We have a clear ambition that, of course, everyone must be both settled and dealt with as quickly as possible. But what we saw back in the '00s, and what we are going to see again, in my opinion, is that the few patients on whom competition is going on between the private and the public will attract public attention in order to keep them, because you can make an income on them and you otherwise lose money. This means that resources are going there, and it is of course going to hurt those patients who do not have that competition. This means that the overcrowding in the medical wards is increasing, which means that the waiting time in the psychiatry is getting longer, which means that the offer to the acute patients is getting worse. And it's this move around with resources that are to the detriment of the vast majority of patients. So what we should do instead is to spend the money on investing in our public health services, so that capacity grew and that it could be used to the best possible effect and hopefully bring the waiting time down for the benefit of everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185356	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185359	When there are many people waiting in psychiatry, this is because there are not enough doctors in psychiatry. And it is true that this problem is not solved by this, but it does not put anyone at a disadvantage that others have better opportunities. And it happens that every time a patient chooses the guarantee here and chooses a private alternative, it costs the public 85%. of the price it would have cost in the public sector. So there are no resources; on the contrary, there could be more resources for perhaps the very weak that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185436	The rapporteur. The indictment is sir. And Mrs. and not you. May-Britt Kattrup Sorry).
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185440	I'll survive it. Firstly, in comparison with prices, I would say that comparisons are in the woods, and I think the rapporteur himself is aware of this. The prices charged to private hospitals do not include the same as in public hospitals, for example, you do not have an emergency function in private, you do not have an educational obligation, just to mention a few things. On the second question, on how it is related, I would again like to refer to the President of the Danish Psychiatric Society, whom I think it is a good thing to say. He says that when you put guarantees on such an already-pressed system, it will happen that you will take the easy psychiatric patients to live up to the guarantee, because you will be punk to do so, and it will, of course, shift resources from the weakest patients to the easy patients. In this way, it has consequences when you put pressure on a system that is under pressure. That is why what we need to do is to ensure that there are some more funds, of course, also that there are some more trained specialists, but also that there are sufficient funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185541	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185551	Thank you. The proposal here strengthens patients' rights so that they have an opportunity to opt out of waiting if it exceeds 30 days. For more than 30 days of waiting for investigation or treatment, patients will have the right to choose one of the hospitals, clinics or other services with which the Regional Councils have agreed or cooperate. In this way, a right to choose a private alternative is created when the public authorities cannot offer clarification or treatment within 30 days. This means shorter waiting times not only for those who can afford to pay a private alternative for themselves, which means that we will have less inequality in this proposal. For the Liberal Alliance, it is very positive that patients come closer to a free choice than they are today, but free choice only works if there is something to choose from and you know about the options. It is therefore important for us that it is not unnecessarily complicated when private hospitals, clinics, etc. shall be approved to conclude an agreement, but shall be subject to equal conditions. It is also very important for patients to be aware of their rights and opportunities. Information about the right to choose as well as the places to choose and, above all, information about the different places is important. The information may be about geographical location, waiting times and professional expertise or other important factors. The information shall be easily accessible and easily understandable. Many patients themselves do not have a surplus to acquire knowledge of rights and opportunities, and it must therefore be the responsibility of doctors, hospitals and regions to inform patients of their choices. A free choice is only worth something if there is something to choose from and you know what you can choose. It is important that a course be as coherent as possible. Therefore, as far as possible, it is necessary to avoid dividing up the process between different actors, but in some cases, splitting up the course can lead to faster treatment, and patients will have that possibility with this agreement. The Liberal Alliance would very much like the regions to draw up a capacity inventory and to establish a realistic plan for their own ability to offer the services requested within a given period of time. We would like to see the use of private hospitals and clinics proactively planned instead of using them only as emergency solutions and waiting until the last moment to involve private people. Such planning could contribute to shorter waiting times, better patient outcomes and lower prices and better use of capacities, as well as better opportunities for the private to provide the requested service. I would like to see an even more freer choice, but this proposal is certainly an improvement for patients, and LA therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185911	Thank you. And the first brief remark is to Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185917	After all, the rapporteur himself referred to this in an earlier question with marginal costs and the 85% cost of a private hospital. Can the rapporteur also confirm that when a public hospital has a marginal cost, somewhere between 50% and 60%, it is relatively far up to 85%, and then it will be just as much money as we could have spent on treating more patients in the public sector if the marginal cost is actually 50-60 percent. Compared to the 85 in private. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315185954	No, the rapporteur cannot, because every analysis shows that every time a patient chooses to use the extended free choice of hospital, it costs 85% on average. of the price in the public sector. And if you could plan, you could go all the way down to 50%. of the price in the public sector instead of using it only as emergency solutions. If you put things out there and said that we are going to need it and that capacity, and then you made a prior agreement with the hospitals, you could go down to half the price.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190030	I assume that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that tenders are already being used today. But this is about marginal costs in public hospitals. Would the rapporteur not just confirm that they are in these places somewhere between 50 and 60%?? For that is what is central when discussing what private hospitals do, namely that they only get 85%. of the total price. But when the fact is that on the marginal cost side of a public hospital you are located in a place between 50 and 60%, then it is probably cheaper to treat in a public than in a private.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190059	After all, it is not when you take the average of all the costs. Then you can figure out that the private can do it for 85%. of the price, if you use the free choice, and half the price, if you do it in the tender. By the way, I know that tenders are used in advance and that you use outsourcing, but it is so little that you are down to less than 2%. of the Danish services go to private hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190127	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190130	After all, it is no surprise that the Liberal Alliance is a warm supporter of more private health. Nevertheless, I think it is strange that we are not more concerned with what the experience around the world looks like. For time and again, we see that the countries which base their health services on public health care do far better and far cheaper than those which base themselves on private health. Countries such as: Germany, France and Switzerland, which have more private hospitals than Denmark, do not have lower health costs than we have here in Denmark. On the contrary, they have considerably higher costs. If one had to follow a calculation example from Professor of Health Economics Jes Søgaard, if one turned it into a Danish context, i.e. to the size of the Danish population, it would be equivalent to costs of 20-30 billion. kr. bigger. So why is the Liberal Alliance such a warm supporter of private health when experience shows that, when we operate public health services, we can make it much cheaper and much more effective than in the countries that rely on private health?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190237	The Liberal Alliance is not in favour of private health for private reasons. The Liberal Alliance is in favour of citizens getting the best health and health for their tax dollars. As far as foreign countries are concerned, I have only seen that the very countries mentioned by the rapporteur have no or very short waiting times. They have better results and there is great satisfaction among citizens. Citizens pay no more per person. citizens for their health than we do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190316	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190317	My point was, of course, that if the Liberal Alliance is in fact in favour of the best possible health and health for the money, then we should be much more strongly in favour of a public health system, because it is much more effective than what we see in the health services that are based on private health. So it must be a question of ideology on the part of the Liberal Alliance, since it is so crucial that we have more private hospitals in our health care than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190349	In other words, that the public sector should be more efficient, I have never seen a single proof, quite the contrary. And when a private company was allowed to take over the operation of Saint Görans Sjukhus in Stockholm, it was already saved 30 per cent in the first year, and 100 000 more patients could be treated in the same budget. And when you talk to doctors employed both in the private and in the public sector, they all say that they can carry out many more operations at the same time in the private sector than they can under public control. All analyses show that the private sector is more efficient than the public sector. I would very much like to see it if Mrs Stine Brix has a single analysis to show that the public sector is more efficient than the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190446	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190457	Thank you very much. The aim of the bill is to give all patients the right to rapid investigation and a following right to extended free hospital choice if, for capacity reasons, the region cannot offer an investigation within one month and at more than one month's waiting time for treatment. We welcome the speedier way out, but we are very critical of the extended free choice of hospital if the waiting time for treatment is above the strict limit of 1 month. The proposal therefore removes the differentiated right to treatment which in practice allows public hospitals to make a professionally based priority of tasks. It also puts pressure on the public hospital services in some areas where they are not able to scale up, among other things. Because of a lack of specialist doctors. We would also like the investigation and treatment processes not to be so badly divided as is the case with the proposal here, but that it might be better integrated when necessary. But the very big crunch for us is therefore the removal of the differentiated right to treatment, which deprives hospitals of the opportunity to prioritise wisely with their own resources, naturally taking account of professionalism. The alternative cannot therefore support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190613	There are no brief comments, and we would like to thank Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315190625	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we in the SF cannot support the bill. I think that a number of improvements were made under the previous government, and I would like to acknowledge that the Socialists agreed with us at the time, which is why I am rather saddened by what we have heard from the Socialists today. This has, of course, been quite a turnaround, especially in relation to the treatment guarantee. But leave it at first. I think that, having read the bill and also heard the rapporteurs from the Left and a number of the bourgeois parties, we have to say that there are a number of things on which we may perhaps be able to agree, namely that we must constantly look at how we can do things better, and it is also difficult to disagree. However, although we agree on the diagnosis, I do not think we agree on what kind of treatment is needed. Because, of course, we have to do something about the waiting times that are still too long, both for investigation and for treatment in hospitals. I also agree that, in addition to this, we may have to do something more serious than that, but I think that where we go completely wrong, we are in relation to the means. I think it is unacceptable that it should be private hospitals that should solve capacity problems in the public sector. It does not surprise me that it is a Left Government which proposes that you should now be curling parents for private hospitals. We have seen this before, but I am surprised that others have also jumped on the idea. And I think there are several reasons why this is a bad idea. Firstly, we run the risk of undermining the coherence of our common healthcare system, and it is simply no use that the money we pay to create a functioning system should go to private actors whose main driving force is ultimately to generate profits. We looked up the results through the '00s, and we saw how the Reichsaudit also contested it and concluded that it would have cost the Treasury a quite significant million dollars if not a billion dollars. I think that speaks for itself, and it also means that we need to have some reservations about how we use private actors. Secondly, we are also running the risk that more and more of the expensively trained doctors we want more and need in public health care, not least in the outermost regions, are now seeking higher salaries in the private sector. In this way, society will once again have to pay extra to make use of the investment we have made in training them. Once again, we take money from the public sector and reduce public services, and as Danske Regioner also points out in the consultation answers, there will be no more specialist specialists who will be given more and more jobs in private hospitals, let alone allow them to be assigned to private hospitals, because this must ultimately be the development we are going to see. On the contrary, it will mean that those who have more than wool in their pockets will come first and easiest to the treatments. Yes, I do not really understand how this is going to strengthen patients' rights, because those who end up being losers in this game are those who cannot afford the health insurance that we will probably soon see further strengthening. Thirdly, we are also familiar with the history of private hospitals. We saw it under the present Prime Minister, who himself sat as health minister in the golden era of private hospitals. I think the then Deputy Prime Minister called it the Golden Cocks. And it must also be said that the Prime Minister knows very well what happened, both with overpayment to private hospitals, but not least with the extended free choice of hospital. I also believe that this is in line with the consultation responses from the Medical Association and the FOA, which also points out that it is a bad idea to remove the differentiation in the treatment guarantee introduced by the previous government. It is, after all, a question of ensuring that those with the most serious diseases are treated as soon as possible, but it also means that we have to give priority, even at a time of narrow and limited resources, so that the most serious diseases are dealt with first, and that everything else just means that those with less serious diseases can wait longer. I also believe that, as politicians, we need to do this with open eyes, rather than sticking people's eyes in the eye and saying that everyone can be treated equally quickly. This cannot be done, and the answers to the hearings also clearly testify to this. There are also some problems associated with the division between analysis and treatment. Where the division of responsibilities is to lie is not entirely clear, and I expect the Minister to reply to that too, perhaps not later today, but then in the next reading of the committee. I can be concerned about what responsibility it is for, how the investigation will ultimately take place and how it will ensure that patients can then take advantage of the opportunity they say that patients will now be given. Of course, this does not change the fact that patients have a right to better rights, a right to rapid investigation and a right to good treatment, and how do we ensure that this is done? All in all, there are some things in this proposal that are yet another attempt to empty the public purses and throw the money at the private. And that is another proposal on the long slippery slope, I would call it that which contributes to greater inequality in society, and that is why the solution is not to continue along that path either, but to go the other way, namely to strengthen our public health services and to invest much more in prevention than is proposed by the current government, and it is very much about strengthening public health services, which will then also be able to solve the capacity challenges that we have to recognise that there are. That is why this is about investing, but it is also about investing wisely and, above all, doing so in the common public health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191200	There is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191209	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of this providing better opportunities for those who can afford it. I think that the words were those with more than wool in their pockets. However, will the rapporteur not confirm that this is precisely a less inequality, because it allows many more people to choose a private alternative and fewer people have to wait for more than 30 days? Without this bill, there are many more people who have to wait for more than 30 days because you cannot afford a private alternative yourself. Here the public goes in and offers a private alternative to people who have a waiting time of over 30 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191254	No, because hardly anyone today has the money or wants to pay for the private alternative. So that's why it's a strange contradiction to run. No, what that will mean is that now, both in the regions and in the private hospitals, attention will be paid to all the easy patients, for whom a diagnosis can be made relatively quickly, and to those for which a relatively fast treatment can be made. And everything else will often be for some uncomplicated things, for example. be hanging eyelids, which I think we can all agree on maybe should be treated, but I find it difficult to see the argument that the eyelids have fallen so much in that they have to be treated within 30 days. I think we need to look much more at how we deal with these very complex diseases. Those who have a life-threatening disease, those who have a serious illness, I would rather be a priority. So it is basically about how to prioritise. I simply recognise that we cannot do everything, and that is why I believe that we, as politicians, need to take that responsibility on us and say that we need to set priorities. In this priority, it is vital for me to see that we have to deal with the most serious first, and that is not done by introducing a one-month treatment guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191355	I do not know where the rapporteur is from, that there are many who will not pay today. But not many people have anything to choose from. Because today so much has been fought against private hospitals instead of fighting waiting lists that there are very few to choose from. We're down to under 2%. private hospitals, so there is not much to choose from for those who want to. With regard to prioritising, the Liberal Alliance would very much like to help as many patients as possible, and precisely by using private people to the extent possible, some money could be saved because private treatments are so much cheaper than public treatment. So how does this relate to the priorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191444	But that is linked to the fact that what the rapporteur says is nonsense, because private people are not cheaper. As we mentioned earlier, the marginal cost of a public hospital is significantly cheaper than that of the private hospital. That is why it is precisely a question of treating as many people as possible. I simply do not understand it and it is also because it is completely out in the hemp in relation to what you actually can. There is no point in thinking that just because doctors move to private hospitals, we can suddenly treat more people. We can't, because the doctors only come from one place. They come from public hospitals, which means that there will be some people in the public sector who will have to wait longer. And everything else will be equal to those with the complicated, the difficult cases, while the quick cases can easily be handled in the private hospital. But it means increased inequality in our health care, and I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191530	Thank you, sir. Jonas Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315191542	Thank you. We have had a good long debate on that bill, and I shall not drag it out unnecessarily, but will of course make a few comments on it. When it comes to our Danish healthcare system, there is one word that is absolutely crucial to me, and that is security. Most of us are not really in contact with health care very many times in our lives, maybe have not been there for many years, but when the accident is out or there are other circumstances that make us need to get in touch with health care, it is just important that we have the security that we get fast and good treatment. With this treatment guarantee, we ensure that you have the right to investigation within 30 days, and if it cannot be delivered, you have the right to choose a private alternative. Here I think it is very good that it has been clarified during the consultation phase that we also have the right to a revised investigation plan, which helps to make the process of further examination possible. In relation to this matter of security, it has to be said that there are some diseases that are very serious and some that are less serious. Yes, yes, I recognize that, but what may seem less serious from the public point of view can be extremely intrusive for the individual person, can help to make it impossible to do his job, so that it can have major consequences. And then I would say that the life-threatening diseases are not just included in the general guarantee of treatment, as we know today. There is a package in the area of cancer, for example, which is much more restrictive, which gives patients much more rights, so there is already a differentiation in this. It's important that this authority is given to the minister in order to ensure that the written information that comes with regard to these patients' rights is clear and easily accessible. I myself sat in the Capital Region and asked in the Committee on Health that we should see the letters sent out to patients, and even though we were a good group of politicians, we could almost conclude that we had difficulty understanding what it was actually in these letters. One might sometimes have such a little suspicion that there might not really be an interest in patients taking advantage of the rights they had. In any case, it was made very, very difficult to make available. I'm not sure it's of bad will. It may also be such bureaucrat language, which is just difficult to understand, but it is certainly important to ensure that citizens are fully aware of what rights they have and who they have to contact in order to fulfil them. There have been differences in treatment options throughout this discussion, and it has to be said that in the system we have in Denmark there are also huge differences between regions. There are some regions where you can get to extremely fast and get your treatment within one type of disease while you have to wait a long time for another type. I know from the Capital Region that the birth preparation for a number of women has been discontinued because there was a lot of illness. You can have that in the neighboring region. Even within a region like the capital there are great differences. In some places they have a lot of work in the maternity ward and find it difficult to reach it. Then you can come to Hillerød and feed in the sensory feeding room, where there is very, very good time and very good conditions. So that way, there are differences in our healthcare system. I don't think we'll ever get rid of that. One last point is this with the private hospitals, and I have heard that from the private hospitals too. There are some who make us sound as if we bourgeois are almost engaged to all private hospitals, and I just want to say that I have never received as much as a penny in election support or anything else from them. They need to send my way, if we're obviously as engaged as some people make it sound. We're not. I believe that private hospitals provide important additional assistance to the public. The problem is that if you use private hospitals only when it is the last resort, it may be difficult for them to have the apparatus ready to function as a buffer capacity. They know this in the Central Denmark Region, for example. There they have placed a number of planned operations and other things under private control to give them a certain base to base their business on, because it has to be acknowledged that this is the case for private hospitals. This has been done to the satisfaction of patients as well as of the economy. However, we support this bill and welcome the rights granted to patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315192000	Thank you very much to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. There are no brief comments. The last in the line is the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315192017	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill and for the debate here today. We have come a long way, and I am glad that waiting times and patient rights take us all into account, albeit with a somewhat different starting point. Thank you, however, for the statements that have been made in the course of the debate. As a minister, I note with great satisfaction that, in general terms, there is support for the purpose of the draft law by all the consultation parties, not least patients supporting it. I think that is important, because it is they that are ultimately involved. It was also with pleasure, but also with a rather great surprise, that this morning I had to see how broad a support there is in the Danish Parliament for the government's proposal. There are many things that have changed, said the Socialist rapporteur, and indeed that is something that has to be said. A lot of things have changed. I am thinking, of course, of the huge turnaround we have witnessed today from the Social Democrats, including in this area. I am, of course, pleased, on behalf of patients, that the Social Democratic Party is now also on the side of patients. I'll get back to that. But first a little bit about the bill we are discussing today. We want a strong public health service. That is why the government, together with the blue parties with which we have entered into financial legislation, is raising the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion this year. kr. extra. Of course, when you get sick, you need to know quickly what's wrong with you. A quick analysis is the prerequisite for getting treatment as a sick person in time and quickly returning to everyday life with family and with work. That is why, on the part of the government, we will allow all patients to choose shorter waiting times for investigation and treatment. In short, we want to strengthen patients' rights. This is true regardless of whether it is a physical or a mental illness, and no matter where you live in the country. We want an extension of free choice for investigation and we want an extension of free choice for treatment at a waiting time of 1 month and not of 2 months. The reason is, of course, that we have unfortunately seen that the regions have failed to fulfil their obligations to provide treatment for patients referred to within 30 days where it is technically possible. In fact, only about six out of ten patients are released within the deadline. So far too many people are still waiting far too long to be solved, and there are very large differences in waiting times across the country, across the regions. According to the current rules, the right of investigation, as it was adopted under the previous government, today the patients' only specific right remains in the right to appeal to the Patient Safety Agency. It is not a right that is good enough for the patient. The patient must also have the right to opt out of long waiting times if there is a possibility of receiving rapid treatment elsewhere. It should not be the case that if you have the resources to do so, you should be able to go out and buy yourself for quick investigation and treatment. We don't think that kind of inequality should be there. It must be possible for everyone to be rescued and treated quickly without undue waiting. It has to be regardless of purse and resources. You shouldn't be able to buy yourself or talk yourself out in the queue. Then, of course, I am well aware that there may be perfectly legitimate reasons why not all patients can be cared for within 30 days. It can, for example, be done. be because it is not technically possible, or because a patient has chosen for himself that one wants to be ridden out in a particular hospital and therefore actively chooses to wait longer. On the other hand, I think that there is every reason to help patients who continue to wait not because they have chosen it for themselves, but because of capacity reasons, and to give them the right to opt out of waiting if there is available capacity elsewhere. That is what the government wants with that bill. That was the right of investigation, then there's the right of treatment. It was originally introduced by the former VK government back in 2002. It helped to ensure that we had more than five weeks of waiting shaved at that time. The former SR government then got on a good day reduced the waiting times by 5 days, so you can make the comparison yourself and see what has been achieved by success. Then the Social Democrat rapporteur said in his speech that they will never accept an A and B team, but that is exactly what they did then. That's when the patients were divided into the A-team and the B-team. The A-team were those who, with the purse in order or the insurance policy in hand, could step out of the long queues of public health care and get the short wait and get more quickly into treatment. That is what we brought up when we introduced the guarantee of treatment, the right of treatment, the extended freedom of hospital choice. It was a right which the previous government then chose to undermine by introducing the so-called differentiated right to extended freedom of hospital choice; it must therefore now be understood that at least parts of the previous government have come to a better mind. More people came to wait longer, and they were not the ones who could pay for it themselves. Nor were they the ones who could make their case to the doctor so that the doctor could understand that there was some urgency. The government does not want that, and I now understand that it no longer wants social democracy. As I said, I really appreciate it on behalf of patients. Therefore, the government will also abolish the differentiated treatment right and replace it with a real right to extended free hospital choice for all patients, whether they suffer from a physical or a mental illness, if there is more than one month's waiting time for treatment. The goal is not for more patients to opt out of the public sector. The aim is that more patients are treated more quickly and that, within the framework of a strong public health service, we ensure the best treatment as soon as possible and that we get as much health as possible for the money. I think we owe it to patients to have equal access to the option of opting out if the regions are unable to offer treatment within one month. Then there is another important point about the bill: we are now strengthening patient information. I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur for his good comments on this. I have heard from a great many citizens in the past, and it is also clear from the evaluation of the law of December 2015 that there is a need for better and more uniform information for patients about their rights. It has also been expressed by various quarters in the hearings. As a patient, we must, of course, be clearly informed about what rights we have and, therefore, the draft law also provides for a new legal basis for the Minister of Health to be able to lay down requirements for the information given to patients. The regions, representatives of patients and private hospitals will be involved in this work, and the aim is that patients receive the same information about their rights, regardless of which public hospital they are referred to, and that the information is presented in an easy and understandable way to patients. I am very pleased that there is such broad support for the individual parts of the proposal. All that we are dealing with in the draft law today is the same thing that I proposed and tabled amendments to when we dealt with the deterioration of the treatment guarantee by the previous government and a so-called investigation right, which was therefore only the right to appeal to the Patient Safety Agency. There we tabled amendments to introduce a real right of rapid investigation with an extended freedom of hospital choice and to maintain a reinforced guarantee of treatment with the right to rapid treatment within 30 days. It was voted down by the Social Democratic Party. There they were in government. Now there has been opposition, and today it is announced that we will vote in favour of this proposal, which was then voted down last time. I noted that as recently as December 2015, the Socialist rapporteur spoke to the Jyllands-Posten, three months ago, about the bill from the government, and I quote: Here one clearly senses that we have a Left Government. The new proposal is of no benefit to patients. Quote out. That was three months ago, but today we have to understand that the world is different, at least from the Social Democrats, which are running away from everything they have said in the past. I think it is good not for the confidence in the political promise, but for the patients that we are now more in the Parliament hall to support strengthening their rights, whether they have a physical or mental illness. So thank you for that turnaround and hence for the broad support in the Parliamentary Chamber for this bill, a support that I did not expect would be so wide. But a new day, new opportunities, so thank you for the broad support. I look forward, of course, to further discussions and make myself available to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193035	Well, we're so lucky there is. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193042	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur said that the Conservative People's Party and she herself had not received any party support from private hospitals or from the trade association, and I would really like to put the same question to the Left Minister for Health and to the Left as a party, i.e. whether you have it. I am thinking of the question, because it came back in the autumn of 2014 • the time when the Left came with its health issue, when one was in opposition, where this was one of the elements of what one wanted to introduce that one had written from the letter of the trade association at the time. So just for the record: Does the Left receive party support from the private hospitals or the trade association in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193128	It is simply not true what the rapporteur is quoting. And whether and from whom the Left has received party support, I can say: Now I am not a party secretary, so I don't have such a book where I can just look up and tell who exactly it is about. However, it is fortunate that the Left, of course, is complying with all the rules governing party support and thus, of course, publishing information on all those who provide contributions and support to the Left under the party support rules. I think we should spend our time today discussing what is the content of the draft law. It may well be that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten thinks it is not nice that some people are now lifting health care and giving patients better rights, and would rather discuss party support rules. But I am completely and completely confident that this is for us about patients, no matter how much Enhedslisten would like to make this a matter of the use of private hospitals. I also noticed that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, in an earlier reply to another rapporteur, said that this bill was simply about more people going to a private hospital. Then I could ask the counter-question: Has Enhedslisten received support from private hospitals? For the changes made by the previous government in this area have, of course, meant that there has never been so many patients to the private hospitals. So I could ask that question about the Enhedslisten. But I don't. Why? Because I don't think it's appropriate for us to discuss the content of this bill. And then I am quite sure and confident that Enhedslisten's rapporteur can look up the Internet and see the party accounts of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193304	The minister actually asked the question, and then says she doesn't ask it anyway. But I can answer: No, we have received no support from private hospitals or from the trade association, nor any amount less than DKr 20,000, as can be seen from the accounts of the Left. And the Minister for Health can, for his own part, answer whether the Minister for Health has received anything for his personal election campaign. It's quite simple. I could have asked for something else here in my second remark if the Minister had just answered 'no' or 'yes' to that question. If I can do that, I would like to ask something else, because it is true, as the Minister said, that the Socialists have changed their position, at least in here at Christiansborg. However, it can be said in politics today that this is not the case with the Regional Council Presidents. And they are asking a number of very relevant questions, which I really would like to pass on, because they are asking whether what you really want with this bill is for other patients to be pushed aside in relation to the treatment of patients who have less impairments, for example. The kidney patient who must have operated on a shunt, or a intestinal cancer patient who must have put his intestine back. Is that really what you want? After all, that is what can be the consequence when patients who have the greatest need cannot be given priority first. So why is it so important for the Left to go back to something that we could see had the consequences when you say that this is reality out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193422	In relation to the latter, the rapporteur must also take up the internal discussion with the Socialists, who have now explained that it does not have that consequence. I just have to say, also in relation to everything about party support rules, that the Left has not changed its position. It is quite well known that we have wanted to strengthen the rights of patients, whether they have a mental or a physical condition. Why? Because I am more concerned that patients are being treated than I am with the cadastre on which the patients concerned are being treated, if otherwise the patients concerned can meet the demands we make on quality and to get as much health as possible for the money. There it is the patients who matter to the Left that they must be able and able to receive rapid treatment. We thought so when we had government responsibility, we thought so when we were in opposition, and we find that strangely true when we are in government. I know that it may come as news to some in the Chamber that the same opinion is being expressed in government as in opposition. I understand that, because we have been used to the situation being somewhat different with the Socialists in particular at the helm. Then it is here that there is no priority, quite simply not correct. Let's take the heart and cancer patients. They are not at all part of the right of investigation and the right of treatment. Why? Because the suspicion of cancer does not have to be placed on a 30-day list or a 30-day list. It is a matter of urgent action that you should receive emergency treatment as a cancer patient. That is why we have very special periods, cancer packages, which we, by the way, want to improve on the part of the government. That is why we have now also launched the whole work on a new cancer plan IV, which will strengthen the whole cancer area and gear us to the challenges we know we will face forward in the cancer field. So to say that there is no priority between sick and less ill patients is simply not correct. Furthermore, priority is given to every day in every department forever, and so let us avoid pretending to each other as politicians that the doctor who sits and operates hanging eyelids, to which I think the SF's rapporteur referred, is the same doctor who sits and treats a patient who, for example, suffers from schizophrenia. I hope not, and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193640	Let us take another brief comment. It's sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193644	The latter, I think, is just going to leave it at the Minister's own expense, because I think that was somewhat incoherent. I would just like to return to the hearing answer given by the Medical Association. I would like to admit that the Left has not changed its position since the private hospitals were overpaid, and peace be with it, but the Medical Association points out that there will now also be a difference in treatment, depending on whether you are being treated in a hospital or in a specialist or general practice. The Medical Association itself points out that this is contrary to the thinking of allowing patients to be treated at the lowest possible efficiency cost level. I just want to hear what the Minister is going to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193728	We have not intended to change what is the starting point for investigation and treatment, namely that in the case of private practitioners who, as the words show, are private practitioners, we are not going to settle for the whole system and say: "Hovsa, now we are taking you and putting you in relation to these rules in this area. On the other hand, it is perfectly legal and possible to make agreements during the extended free choice of hospital with private practitioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193800	However, it is a little strange that because it then takes place in these private specialist practices or general practices, and because it is private in itself, there must then be other rights than those in hospitals. Can't the Minister see for himself the irony of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193818	No. After all, I think that we should be based on what is the world of reality and the fact that we are dealing with self-employed workers who, of course, have a great deal of access to patients themselves. Of course, one might think that we should take a stand against it, that they should no longer be private practitioners. Perhaps that is what is really the SF proposal. If they were to be included, it would require extensive and very intrusive management by the regions and, moreover, much more control over the activities and capacity of private practitioners. However, as I mentioned in my previous answer, there is nothing to prevent private practitioners from agreeing on benefits during the extended free choice of hospital. What we are concerned with by the government is to make the best possible use of its capacity across the board and to do something to ensure that we get better medical coverage across the country. That is why the government has set up this medical coverage committee, which will have to come up with concrete proposals on how to ensure a better distribution of the country's specialists across the country as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193926	Then it is time to thank the Minister for Health and the elderly. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If there are no objections, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315193949	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194014	The pre-retirement and flexible job reform had one aim for us Socialists: to get more people from passive support and closer to the labour market, and to some extent it has succeeded. At the same time, it should give citizens a more close effort, that is to say, an effort aimed at the individual and an effort with the individual, and that is why I still believe that the very idea and the very idea of the reform is the right one. Now the reform has been going on for a while and the start-up has been difficult, and for many it has been difficult. Some municipalities have done well, and other municipalities have done less well. This bill looks more closely at the early retirement cases, i.e. whether in some of these cases you can avoid having to get past the rehabilitation team. We all know the stories in the wake of the reform, where a developmentist who is virtually unable to cope with himself has to get his case through with this team, and it has to be assessed whether he is fit for early retirement or whether he is going to work. These stories have been part of, they have filled a great deal in the media, and that is absolutely weeping. At the same time, of course, we politicians are constantly hearing that the actors, in this case the job centres, cannot keep up and that they would like us to simplify the procedures, and we are also hearing from the citizens who are waiting for a decision and who believe that it often takes too long. This process proposes that the government and the parties to the conciliation, of which the Socialists are a part, should make more simple and better, and therefore it is proposed to exempt those people who can clearly be seen not to meet the conditions for granting early retirement. This will mean that a development plan can be drawn up more quickly in order to bring them closer to the labour market. The others to be exempted are those where it is completely pointless to develop the ability to work. This gives those people a quick clarification and thus a greater calm in their lives. Both the Danish Social Advisor Association and the KL have expressed a positive opinion in their hearing response on a simplification where, instead, the resources can be used for other people and strengthen the citizen-oriented efforts and where the money stays in the system. A study from Employment from 2015 estimates that these cases are somewhere between 1,400 and 1,500 cases out of the total approx. 6,000 early retirement grants. So it is not a small and insignificant part. I must not hide the fact that the Socialists are following this and other reforms closely, with the precise aim that what we want with the reforms should produce positive results. This also means that we are well aware that everything is not going as it should with these reforms in the municipalities and that we are following it very closely. We see that in the press as a matter of course it doesn't. We have people who visit us in committee and there are various e-mails from worried citizens. Therefore, it is also good that the Minister has followed a wish from the Danish Handicap Federation, which wants a new practice study to ensure that the decisions without referral to this team are correct. With these words, I must say that the Socialists support the proposal, but we allow ourselves to be vigilant in relation to the citizens' meeting with the system and the treatment they receive along the way, because it is absolutely essential for a good result and a good way from passive support to a better link with the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194345	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194354	This bill is intended to allow municipalities to exempt certain early retirement cases from referral to the rehabilitation team, and this is in order to debureaucratize the municipal procedures. These are two different types of case. The first is the application cases in which the municipality considers that it is undoubtedly that the citizen does not fulfil the conditions for granting an early retirement pension. And the other is cases where the municipality considers that the person is so ill or has such significant disability that it is obviously pointless to try to develop the ability to work, and where you can see that you do not need to have them past the rehabilitation team. In the Danish People's Party we can support the bill. We think it is good that we are looking at removing unnecessary cases in the municipalities. So we would very much like to state that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194521	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. There are no brief comments either. So we move on quickly to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194529	Thank you. I shall not repeat what the draft law is about. It is well described by the previous rapporteurs. With this bill, there is an opportunity to debureaucratize the municipalities' processing process, and that is positive. After all, today's total processing time is unnecessarily extended by the procedural requirements that we have set up, and that is unfavorable to the citizen. So, overall, we find that this bill improves the scope for simplification and debureaucratisation and sets out to make the process of processing more flexible. So this will benefit both the individual citizen and the municipalities as well. In those words, the Left would recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194635	Not to Mr. Hans Andersen has brief comments, so we thank him. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315194651	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's speech could give me the opportunity to spend a lot of time on a general assessment of this reform of early retirement. I shall refrain from doing so. There are a lot of sick people in the country who can talk much better about it. They are faced with the refusal of early retirement even if there is no working capacity left in them. Let it go. This bill certainly does not solve any of the major problems created by this reform. We can see an advantage in that if this is what is called a smooth case, that is, a case in which the municipality has no doubt that they are entitled to an early retirement pension, then you skip the rehabilitation team and grant the citizen the early retirement pension. It's okay. However, we cannot support the second part of the bill, which says that if the municipality has no doubt that they should not have an early retirement pension, then the rehabilitation team can be missed. I fully agree that a lot of citizens experience this rehabilitation team as something terrible that prolongs the proceedings and that they are also faced with condescension and, in many cases, also mistrust when they dare to run for a meeting of the rehabilitation team, where many, many citizens also experience refusals in situations where an early retirement pension should have been granted. I just don't think that the criticism of the rehabilitation team should lead us to be happy that the municipality doesn't have to bring cases to these rehabilitation teams when the municipality has no doubt about refusing early retirement. There I think even a half-bad practice that those teams have, according to what the citizens say, can be better than the one-eyed estimate by the municipality of whether an early retirement pension should be granted and whether it is any trouble at all worth asking the rehabilitation team. One can have a tiny hope that in that team there should be some hearty people who have a better understanding of the citizen's situation than the municipality has. So we want to split the bill, and if the bill cannot be shared it will prove whether it can • we will vote against it. Then there is one positive thing in this draft law, a clearly positive thing, and that is that when people are involved in the terminal phase, a medical certificate is sufficient and early retirement can be granted. Why could this practice not be extended to apply in general when it comes to taking a decision on early retirement? It's definitely worth a thought. It is outside this draft law, but I think it is nice to see that there is one point on which public opinion would like to rely on what specialists say. There are, after all, a lot of examples that we are told by the citizens who write to us that the municipalities do not care what the specialists say. Despite a clear statement by specialists that there is no residual capacity to develop, the municipalities ignore it and refuse early retirement. So couldn't the settlers take and let themselves be inspired a little bit by that remark in the bill? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195037	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. This did not give rise to any brief comments either, so we shall proceed immediately to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195053	I'll start by saying that we can support this bill. It is a legislative proposal which we consider to be a debureaucratisation proposal, which thus allows us to focus on those who really need help so that those who really need early retirement can have it quickly and unbureaucratically; and that some of the applications which are unfounded can also be rejected. This is a good bill and we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195131	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. And the next in line is mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195149	Bill No. L 145 is about the flex-job and early retirement reform. It is about the municipal resource processes, where you want to clarify a possible ability to work once again before giving people early retirement. The resource processes are, as a starting point, a good idea, as we want to give people an extra opportunity to support themselves. There are currently thousands of Danes on resource programmes. Many of them are happy with their progress, and the number of early retirements has also fallen sharply. The problem is that in the case of a large group of exposed and sick Danes, the resource sequences have become a long-term parking on cash aid with work tests, which in reality worsens their condition. Therefore, there has been a great deal of media coverage of resource processes, where Danes have been placed in work tests in an unworthy and unjust manner throughout or half hours a week, in some cases with a bed that they could lay down in when they needed a break from folding envelopes. In this way, resources have become a place where you can park a group of citizens who should have had an early retirement pension, but which it is cheaper to keep on cash benefits that they receive during resource development. I believe that this group of citizens who should have received an early retirement pension amounts to more than 1,000 people. There are large groups on social media who share experiences on how to cope with the progress of resources, when you just get poorer citizens who support each other while their condition deteriorates in various work tests, and citizens who help each other to complain about their situation and to deal with the refusals that often follow. The programme of resources has so much attention that in the autumn we had to move a consultation on the subject to the Landstingshall because the number of listeners was so large. Unfortunately, I could not inspire hope in one of those who appeared at the conciliation that this draft law, L 145, would relieve them of their suffering in the labour test of the process of resource development. That should then be the part, that is to say the second part of the bill, which exempts people from the process of resource development if it is obviously pointless to try to develop their ability to work. As far as I can see, you are not exempt from resource processes through this bill if you can even drag yourself into a consultation at Christiansborg. I think those who are exempted from this bill may be those who are so ill or weak that they will not be able to take the two 20-minute work test a week with bed. In the alternative, of course, we are positive about excluding people who are so bad from the totally grotesque situation, that is when they are to take part in a work test that is neither to their satisfaction nor to the company that opens the door to them. But the government should not come and use this bill to say that now the problem is solved in order to prevent people who should have an early retirement from being parked on resource paths. Much more far-reaching action is needed if we are to correct the battle side of the flows of resources, so that those who should receive early retirement are also given it, and we will continue to work for that in the alternative. We also have some doubts as to how to determine in concrete terms who is too weak for a process of resource development, since all those who are set aside for such a process have already been set aside for early retirement. With regard to the second part of the proposal that people who are not clearly prepared for early retirement should not be on the way to resources, we also need clarification on how to decide this. We are going to ask questions about the practical handling of both types of exceptions in future legislative work. Finally, however, I must say that in the alternative, we are pleased with the debureaucratisation that is being proposed in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195525	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195543	Thank you. I think that the draft law here, L 145, has been examined fairly in detail by previous rapporteurs, and thank you for that. For us in the Radical Left, this is actually a pretty good example of listening, both by the Minister and widely in the conciliation circle, and we have recognised that reforms will only come about when they are implemented and that they must be followed to the end. It has never been the intention of the early retirement reform that terminally ill people should submit their cases several times in order to obtain early retirement, but we must also recognise that this has happened. And that is among other things. That is why we are now changing the law so that it does not continue. The two types of case, which are exempt from the requirement of referral to the rehabilitation team, have been examined fairly thoroughly, I think. However, I think that what is worth noting is that we have listened here to both the people involved, that is to say the citizens who have felt that they have got into trouble in the system, and to the municipalities and case managers who point out that it is an unnecessary bureaucratic burden to present cases where there is no doubt. So we're backing this bill. I think that in many ways it is a manifestation of common sense and a Parliament which is able to listen and work together in a broad sense in order to constantly improve legislation. So praise the Minister from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195718	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The next is the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195731	A little is right, as long as it's in the right direction. This bill will make it a little easier both to be a citizen and to be employed in the municipal administration. In other words, one might wonder why the clarification of the draft law is needed at all. How has there ever been any doubt as to whether dying patients should be exempted? How has it ever been possible to make such a stupid practice out there as to torment dying people in front of a rehabilitation team? But now it is a good thing that it is being clarified and that it is being made clear that we should not bother citizens or businessmen about going into quite blatantly pointless cases. In our view, however, there is a major task ahead of us to ensure that sick and vulnerable citizens receive decent treatment in all municipalities. Resource processes are well thought out, but in some places they are implemented in a hopeless way. This bill supports SF, but it cannot stand alone if resource development is really to help sick citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195856	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it is the turn of the Conservatives, but I do not see any rapporteur present. Is that right? That's it. Then we go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315195917	Thank you. The draft law that we are dealing with today results in an agreement within the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. The proposal gives the municipalities more freedom to simplify proceedings in the case of early retirement if the outcome is clear in advance. I am not going to go through the bill, it has been examined in an excellent way, but say a little about the consequences. First of all, I would like to point out that we continue to ensure a link between health care, by ensuring that the health coordinator is consulted in the obvious cases, so that we ensure a systematic medical assessment of cases in larger areas. However, the municipality does not need to obtain this medical opinion from the health coordinator if the citizen is terminally ill. It is clear that the draft law provides for the possibility of saving resources in the rehabilitation team in early retirement cases where there is really no need for a multidisciplinary assessment. At the same time, the proposal provides for a simpler procedure for citizens and therefore also for shorter processing times. In addition, for citizens who undoubtedly do not meet the conditions for early retirement, the proposal allows municipalities to decide quickly what should instead be the right approach. Overall, this is a debureaucratisation of the municipal procedure, which benefits everyone. At the same time, we in the conciliation circle agree to follow the development of the municipal procedures so that we ensure that early retirement is granted as intended. In conclusion, it is important for me to stress that this draft law does not change the criteria for early retirement. Pre-retirement pensions are the very last option, and we should never refer citizens to permanent passive support as early retirement if there is a chance that they will be able to return to the labour market. Thank you for the positive reception of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200138	It triggered one brief remark, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200144	Thank you. Now there are a couple of rapporteurs who have been talking about the processes of resources. Will the Minister confirm that this bill is not about searching for resources, but that it is about administrative simplification of proceedings in cases of early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200206	I just have one more question. I just didn't have time to push the button. The minister was about to make me pass out of the short answer I received, so I became completely confused. We haven't been used to that before with that minister, but thank you anyway. Will the Minister accept that we split up the bill so that the Enhedslisten can vote in favour of those parts of the bill that we think are good and vote against the part that we think is bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200238	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200245	Then we would like to thank the very brief Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200301	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 17 March 2016. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen to the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200331	Thank you. It is possible that there are some people in this Chamber who are a little tired of discussing this bill, but I am now glad that several weeks ago I took the initiative that we had this question debate and that it can be held before we vote on the final legislative proposal on Thursday. We are faced with one of the most intrusive legislative proposals for many years before some of the most vulnerable people who are already having a really difficult time. However, it was almost predictable that the government and the parties behind the bill would do anything to avoid a discussion on the major consequences of this bill for thousands of people. That concern has then been confirmed. We haven't gotten to the bottom of this case. Here are just a few of the key questions that I have picked up and that we have still not received an answer to: how can one claim that the purpose of the bill is to get more people into work when the government itself does not believe it? Only 700 more people are expected to work, but you hit 30,000 people who you make poorer. What does that mean? Why should the ceiling and the 225-hour rule also apply to people who have been assessed by the municipalities as not ready for work, given that the whole justification is that more people are going to work? How is it to increase social mobility that thousands of people become poorer when all the studies and our experiences from the 00s show that so low benefits that the government is proposing are precisely maintaining people in poverty? How is there going to be a place in the labour market for the many sick people, for people with disabilities and for other non-employed people, whom the Minister wants to hunt out to work? Where are the jobs for these people? How will the government prevent the 225-hour rule from leading to a pat-down of sick citizens when you look at how it itself helps to push the municipalities financially? How can the government be so sure that the municipalities exempt the non-jobable, or is the fact that the government does not want to avoid it at all? Where are the inexpensive housing that cash benefit recipients have to move into when they are put out of their apartment because they cannot pay the rent because of the ceiling on cash benefits? How is this proposal to avoid leading to increased poverty? That is how it happened in the '00s when we had a version of the ceiling on cash benefits and the hourly rule, which was not nearly as hard as the one that is being introduced now. We are constantly told that it is reasonable to take thousands of kroner annually from some of those who have the least. It is a reasonable economic basis for those people, it is said. It is fair to the many who go to work every day without making much of it. What is the reasonableness of this? How has this been achieved? These are just some of the questions whose answers are blowing in the wind, and I hope we can get a little closer in this query debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200616	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for Employment to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315200628	Thank you. It is the Government's ambition that we should have more in employment. That is why, with the proposal on the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, we will increase the gain by getting into employment. For many recipients of cash benefits today, there is no noticeable difference between being on cash benefits and being in work. At the same time, there is today a group of cash aid recipients who are actually not available for the labour market. The most recent figures show that this is about one in four persons employed in the field of cash benefits. That is also why we are now introducing a ceiling on the total benefits that can be received in the cash benefits system. At the same time, we are calling for cash benefits recipients who can work to meet a working requirement of 225 hours within a total of one year. The 225 hours correspond to this approx. 5-6 hours of work per week or 11⁄2 months of full-time employment. The ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule must ensure that more cash benefit recipients become part of the working community. At the same time, the ceiling on total benefits should be seen in the context of the second phase of job reform, where the government wants to ease the tax burden on people in employment. This will further increase the benefit of, and hence the incentive to work. The draft law represents a fair balance between incentives to work and a reasonable temporary substitute. It is clear, however, that this means, of course, that as a cash aid recipient you must give priority to your expenditure, as is the case for citizens in employment. It is also my clear view and that of the government that if we are to break the social legacy and support the education and entry of the next generation into the labour market, the best thing we can do for those families is to get parents into work. It has been crucial for the government and the parties to the agreement that the bill creates the right balance between a reasonable level of remuneration for all on the one hand and a real incentive to work on the other. The ceiling on cash benefits applies as a starting point for all persons receiving integration benefit, education or cash benefits. However, for most of the recipients of cash benefits affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, the total reduction in benefits will be less than DKr 2 000 and the average reduction in benefits will be approx. 1,450 kr. per month. Specifically, the ceiling on cash benefits means that a typical couple with three children will continue to have approx. 15,000 kroner. available per month when tax and rent are paid, or approx. 406,000 kr. in total pre-tax public benefits, when starting from family type calculations. In my view, this is a reasonable level of dependency, while at the same time the rules allow individuals to avoid, in whole or in part, a reduction in special aid or housing aid by working a few hours a week. At the same time, bearing in mind that cash benefits are temporary benefits and that people who cannot work at all should not be in the cash benefits system, we must, of course, have levels of benefits that support the fact that working is worthwhile. In the draft law and the amendment, we have excluded various groups of people with disabilities from the ceiling on cash benefits. This applies, firstly, to persons who are severely handicapped and who are searched for a suitable accommodation by the municipality. The housing aid will not be included in the ceiling here. This applies regardless of whether it is the recipient of cash benefits himself or a member of the household who is not a recipient of cash benefits who is severely handicapped. Then we have the amendment, among other things. on the basis of the KL's hearing answer, chosen to exempt special support and housing support from the ceiling for cash benefits recipients who, due to a physical or mental impairment, have been searched for and have been assigned a suitable accommodation by the municipality. In addition, both special support and housing support are exempted from the ceiling for persons with reduced mobility and persons receiving 24-hour care under the Services Act who have found a suitable accommodation themselves, i.e.: in situations where the dwelling is not designated by the municipality. Persons with such limited working capacity that, on the basis of a concrete individual assessment, the municipality considers that the persons concerned will not be able to obtain 225 hours of employment within one year in the ordinary labour market, are exempted from the increased availability requirement. The vast majority of people who have been assessed as ready for activity, e.g. Therefore, due to disability, abuse, mental illness, etc., is expected to be exempted from the 225-hour requirement. At the same time, it should be stressed that the amended rules do not require the citizen to immediately enter full-time or part-time employment with a high number of hours. Only 225 hours of work are required within one year, which means that with 5-6 hours of work a week you will be able to meet the requirement. This means that short-term small jobs are also an option. Of course, economic incentives must not be left alone and we must do everything we can to support citizens in getting into jobs at the same time. For a job is the best way to a safe and stable life for the individual family. I do not think that we should abandon the ambition of a job and the increased quality of life that it carries with it for the group of cash aid recipients who are not currently ready for work. It is precisely the job centres' job to help citizens get closer to the labour market or participate in education. The municipality has a duty to help and support the unemployed to enter the labour market through an individual contact process and an active effort. The individual contact process means that there must be regular conversations between the job centre and the unemployed person. The talks shall ensure that the actions undertaken are followed up. Job search etc. must be discussed and the next step towards employment must be agreed. Active action must be organised on the basis of the individual's resources and needs and may, for example, be: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc Existing knowledge indicates that enterprise-oriented efforts have the best employment impact, including for vulnerable target groups. That was among other things. a central conclusion of the committee work carried out by Carsten Koch for the former government. Therefore, we would like to support the work of the municipalities to get vulnerable cash aid recipients going on the business. At the end of 2015, therefore, an experiment was launched under the name of JobFirst, where vulnerable citizens have to go to real jobs from day one and where the goal is ordinary employment for as many hours as possible. In addition, with the 2016 rate pool, 78,2 million has been allocated. kr. to specially organised business programmes to encourage job centres to get the vulnerable unemployed in a business-oriented effort at ordinary jobs that can prepare them for an ordinary job. Activity-specific recipients of training or cash assistance are also entitled to a coordinating case officer to ensure that action is coordinated across municipal administrations. There is therefore a focus on helping people to achieve permanent employment as soon as possible and full or partial self-employment or ordinary education. As also stated in the comments to the bill, the municipalities should be specifically paying extra attention to providing guidance and assistance to persons receiving cash benefits as they approach the reduction in benefits as a result of the 225-hour rule. The municipalities can, for example, in connection with the contact process. offer these citizens a business consultant with special industry knowledge and knowledge of job opportunities in the local labour market. Citizens with significant and permanently reduced working capacity are not included in the cash benefits system. It is therefore also important for me to make it clear once again that citizens who are more permanently unable to work at all, for example. because of illness, should not be in the cash benefits system at all. The municipalities have a duty here to ensure that the citizens receive the right help. In addition, municipalities must systematically follow up rehabilitation teams on whether a citizen, for example: must be searched for a resource or flex job or have granted early retirement if the person otherwise fulfils the conditions for it. The parties to the agreement have paid particular attention to this, and it is therefore also clear from the draft law that the Ministry of Employment will launch an evaluation in 2017 to highlight the extent to which vulnerable cash benefits recipients will have their working capacity and dependency clarified. In fact, in relation to the opportunities for getting a job, I believe that we have a well-functioning and dynamic labour market in which many jobs are continuously created. Currently, a number of employers even mention that they find it difficult to fill vacancies. On jobnet.dk there were vacancies in January of the year 27,577. Of these, 18.123 were newly created posts. At the same time, job vacancies on Jobnet represent only part of the job vacancies in January. Very many vacancies in Denmark are filled, for example. via networks and informal channels. During the period from the fourth quarter of 2014 to the third quarter of 2015, there were almost 776,000 job openings in Denmark. This underlines that there is a job to be obtained. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that in October 2015, almost 155,000 full-time foreign nationals worked in Denmark. I can tell you that a new ceiling on cash benefits, a 225-hour rule, etc. According to the government's long-term amendments overall, it is estimated that public finances will increase by some 538.5 million. kr. after tax and backflow and including behavioral consequences. At the same time, the proposal is expected to increase employment by about 700 years' work or full-time workers. I believe that, with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, we are taking the cash benefits system in the right direction. It is absolutely essential that there is always an incentive to work and that we ensure that the recipients of cash benefits are actually available for the labour market. The changes we are making represent a fair balance, in which everyone is still guaranteed a reasonable remuneration. In addition, there are still a number of options for providing additional help to the individual after an individual and concrete assessment. Both the rules on the ceiling and the 225-hour rule provide for the necessary exceptions, so that we ensure that, for example, disabled people who have the necessary higher cost of housing are not affected inappropriately and those who are currently unable to work do not lose their help because of the requirement for 225 hours of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202016	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Finn Sørensen is the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202029	Thank you. The bourgeois parties tried earlier this day to give the impression that a single cash aid recipient with two children has DKK 17,400. in my hand a month with this bill. That is simply not true. The Minister's answer to question 63 shows this. The amount of the allowance for a single child is DKK 7,233. a month. A single person with two children has a lump sum of DKK 10,291. A single - child couple has an allowance of DKK 13,983, and if there are two children, the amount is DKK 14,550. per month. Read for yourself the answer and see the severe reductions in the amount of availability that lie behind the figures. If the rapporteurs of the bourgeois parties have just a tiny bit of shame in their lives, they go to the platform and apologize for the delusion that they or their colleagues have committed earlier this day. And many get even less available than these figures. In the metropolitan area, rents are significantly higher than the Minister's assumptions. According to the National Association of Housing Companies, it provides a sum of money for a couple with three children of only DKr 12,609. a month. At least it's settled. So where are we in the debate on this bill? After today's votes, we find that the bourgeois bloc is united on a totally cynical attitude towards the unemployed and to people who, for various reasons, are unable to work. They can't explain where the jobs are supposed to come from to those people. You yourself do not believe that the proposal has any significant effect on employment. They cannot indicate how these people are to be able to maintain their apartment when housing security and special housing support are drastically reduced or completely disappeared. They cannot explain how to ensure that the municipalities exempt those people from the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule which cannot work. They cannot explain how to ensure that those who are not actually able to work receive a process of resource or early retirement. Nor can you explain how to improve social mobility by making thousands of people poor when all the experience shows that as low benefits as are provided here simply sustain people in poverty. But in spite of that, they are still showing up. You know it's crazy. They know that they are throwing thousands of people into a very difficult situation and, for many, into poverty. It's just as cynical as it can possibly be. When we cannot get answers to such elementary questions, we have to ask ourselves: well, what is the purpose of this bill? What is the actual agenda? After all, the only objective is clear from the text of the conciliation. About 0.5 billion will have to be raised. kr., which can be thrown into the negotiations on tax relief in the autumn. According to the government base, the money is to be used to lighten the top tax, i.e. the tax for the 10%. the richest who have already been gilded over the past 14 years by tax freezes and countless other tax cuts. The second purpose is wrapped a little more. When the government and the conciliation parties run out of arguments, we are told: Well, that's just fair. It is a reasonable level of living for the recipients of cash benefits, even if you cut between 20% and 20%. and 30%. the amount of their available resources. And then it is added: that is also out of respect for the neighbour in the apartment on the other side of the hall, who gets up every morning and goes to work, although the neighbour does not have much out of it. However, when you scrape off all the phrases, there is nothing more than an estimate of what is reasonable, an estimate made by people who earn between five and six times as much as the recipients of cash benefits whose lives they are now in the process of destroying. What kind of respect are you talking about? Does the low-paid warehouse worker feel better if the unemployed neighbor on cash benefits gets worse? Of course not. On the contrary, the day the storekeeper becomes unemployed, he will be affected by the same vicious rules. In other words, respect for the storeworker is to make it even more expensive for him to become unemployed. The very big battle from the Minister for Employment is that the bill is implemented in respect of the social partners and their collective bargaining, understood that now the public sector should not outbid the minimum wages agreed in the collective bargaining process. But the LO will very much have been deprived of that kind of respect, for they know what it leads to. It remains to be seen that this bill is being implemented out of respect for the Danish Employers' Association, the only consultation party to praise the bill, except that DA is annoyed that the rate of cash benefits is not being reduced. And then we are inside the whirlpool into which the bourgeois people want us to be: you lower the social benefits, the minimum wage falls by, then the differences become smaller, and then they shout with renewed vigour that it must now be worthwhile to work. It is a spiral of death for employees, and I am very pleased that all parties in the opposition are united in rejecting it. Then, with the permission of the President, I will read out the opposition's proposals for adoption tabled by the Socialists, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical and Socialist People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the social and individual consequences of the introduction of the cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule are very extensive. The government itself expects that approx. 30,000 will be affected, including in particular single parents, the vast majority of whom are women, and a total of approx. 34 500 are children. The Folketing shares the concerns of virtually all the hearings that this legislation will lead to more poor people, more postponements, more homeless people. Parliament notes that the government itself does not expect the proposal to lead to any significant increase in employment. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that thousands of people in Denmark have less to live for, including many thousands, who cannot work. Despite the government's amendments, disabled people will still be affected and, above all, families with children will be at risk. Against this background, the Danish Parliament urges the government not to introduce a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule in Denmark. • V 32). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202645	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen in the first place, but there are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Marlene Jarpsøe, no, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202657	Thanks for the last name just got fixed. First of all, I would like to say that I find it extremely regrettable, to say the least, to hear that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is constantly beginning to attribute to us, who are actually behind the ceiling of cash aid, malicious intentions with this ceiling of cash aid that we do not have. And I'm just gonna have to shoot that thing down. I do not think it is right that we should repeatedly be given some intentions that we do not have. I know that Enhedslisten has an opinion on this bill, but let us then hear what your position is on the bill, rather than starting to describe us with some malicious adjectives that do not have a real basis. So I'd like to hear that, sir. Finn Sørensen's comment. Because is it not the case that we should really be dealing with what we ourselves want rather than sitting here or standing here in the Chamber telling us of some bad intentions that we do not have? Well, I think you should take out the sharp knife from the drawer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202822	But I have done so too, because I have listened to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the rapporteur's colleagues and the Minister in countless consultations and meetings and have seen that the basic questions I outlined cannot be answered. And then we have to try to find out what the hell is the purpose of the bill, when it will have the exact opposite effect of what you stand and say. Then I would like to say that it is awful, so sore-skinned the rapporteur suddenly is. Well, if you think it's a big, obvious truth you come up with with with this bill, then you can just trust it. I guess you convince people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202902	I do not think it is right that we should begin to have some intentions that we do not have. Well, I'm just gonna have to say it out loud. I just think that on the part of Enhedslisten we should find a different agenda, also in relation to having some respect for the work that is going on here in the Folketing. Having said that, I would like to ask a question, and it is in relation to some new figures that show that 84 per cent. of the spouses who receive cash benefits, i.e. where both parties receive cash benefits, have a non-Western origin. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315202938	I do not care what ethnic origins people have in Denmark. It's about them being treated properly, no matter where they come from. And then I would say to the rapporteur that many, many years on the labour market and many years in politics have taught me that we should not just take too good care of what people say about their good intentions. Very often it is the case, especially in politics, that the real aims are something other than what they say. If we take the specific legislative proposal, one part of it is a confession: it is part of the agreement that is behind this, that 500 million will have to be handed in. kr. So I guess we don't have to discuss that part much. The second part can be seen from the Minister's statement on the Danish Employers' Association and the Minister's support is that it is carried out here in respect of the Danish Employers' Association. Then the Minister says: No, it is the social partners. But the LO has rejected that kind of respect. This bill is being implemented in respect of an organization that wants to put down the cash aid. Over!
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203056	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203059	When Mr. Finn Sørensen stands on the platform and says that it is being manipulated and that more substance is needed in the debate, so I just have to say that it is Mr Sørensen. Finn Sørensen, who needs to get some substance into this debate. The available amounts mentioned this morning are right. It is so that once this ceiling has been introduced, a cash aid recipient with two children before housing costs will have DKK 17,400. available. Today the person has $2,000 (U.S.). available. These are, of course, average calculations, but that is the way it is in the real world. Yesterday I was out in the real world. I visited a social worker with two children. She got 19,400 kroner. paid, she showed me her budget. Then don't say we're manipulating. We're just keeping track of the numbers, and you don't have that in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203202	All I have to say is that you manipulate when you, like Mr. Simpson... Joachim B. Olsen and the other rapporteurs did so earlier in the afternoon, says that the amount available is DKK 17,400. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not manipulation and it is before housing expenditure, because it is not at all comparable to the other figures we have used in this whole debate and the figures that are shown in the Minister's answer to Question No. 63. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of LA to speak again, otherwise we will be able to confirm later that he agrees with the Minister for Employment in the statement of the amounts available in the answer to Question No. 63 and of which I mentioned the most important amounts in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203249	I fully agree with those figures. This morning I was the first to speak on the matter of the 17,400 kr. was before housing expenses. I think that's the best number to use. That is the best figure for us to get an impression of what is actually being paid. That's what real people in the real world live on. That is the amount paid to them after tax, after offsetting all possible benefits received. Then what's going on in the account? Then you can sit cheaply or sit expensively in it, but that is what is doing good with. I think that's the best number to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203332	I fully understand that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen believes that this is the best figure to use, because it's what's best at misleading the entire population about how much money a cash aid recipient gets in his hands as a result of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203345	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203350	Thank you. After all, the starting point and purpose of this bill is that it should pay off to work and that we should have more cash benefit recipients in work. It might be interesting to hear what has happened over the last few years. As far as I can calculate, the number of cash benefits recipients has risen by 20%. Since 2011. The number of cash benefits recipients in families where both parents are on cash benefits has increased by 50 per cent. So how does Enhedslisten think that the previous government has succeeded in getting cash benefits recipients to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203436	It has certainly not succeeded very well, but it has nothing to do with the information provided by the rapporteur of the Left here. The reason why the number of cash aid recipients has increased steadily in this country over the past five years is that the previous government, in close cooperation with the right and the previous government alone, together with the Danish People's Party, carried out some unprecedented tightenings and dismantlings of the social security net in this country through the deterioration of the early retirement pension scheme, the unemployment allowance reform, the reform of early retirement, flexible jobs, sickness benefits and a cash assistance reform on top of this. The first reforms had and, of course, have the effect, and we will see in the coming years that more people are coming on cash benefits because they have closed the door to the benefit court; because they have closed the door to the early retirement pay; because they have closed the door to the early retirement pension. Something must be done for those people, for God's sake, to live on except for those who are thrown completely into self-reliance, and then they end up on cash benefits. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203549	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur considers it reasonable that, if you are a single parent with three children on cash benefits, you have got as it looks right now before the implementation of the cash benefits ceiling • DKr 600. out of taking a job for 17,700 kroner. a month. That's the pay you can get if you step into a store, for example. Here in Copenhagen. Does the rapporteur think it is fair to get 600 kroner? out of going 160 hours to work a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203624	I think it is so unfair that there are some employers in this country who want to eat their employees off with such low wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203633	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203637	Now I could understand that with this proposal the Danish People's Party will not send any negative vibrations, but only have good karma around it, and that we should therefore not elastorize over what intentions the Danish People's Party has. That is why I cannot help asking the rapporteur and the author of the question: does it make any difference, in relation to how much money a person in the real world gets paid out, whether the Danish People's Party is voting for this proposal with good or bad intentions? In other words, does it make any concrete difference in relation to the number of crowns and ears entering the bank book every month for those who now have the amount cut, whether they are sent off with good intentions or bad intentions? I think we could be a little confused about this in the debate that was going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203721	That was a very sharp observation, but I think it has to be said that the people who are affected cannot at least pay rent with the good intentions of Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203737	Then we'll move on, and that's Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203742	Thank you. The bill is essentially about one thing, and it is whether it pays to work or not. The four bourgeois parties think it should pay to work, and even significantly, while the left do not think it should be worthwhile to work. That is why my introductory question to Mr. Finn Sørensen actually: Seems Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen, that it is reasonable that there is no difference between working and not working? Mr. Finn Sørensen not that it is reasonable that there is a major reason why you should get up at 1 p.m. 7 or 8 in the morning, working 37 hours plus pause, picking up your children, coming home, at the same time delivering up to 40-50 percent. in tax, so that we can have a welfare system? Should these people not be paid in relation to those people who, for one reason or another, do not go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315203850	This bill isn't about whether it's worth working. This is clear from the Government's own comments on it, because it does not believe that taking some money from cash aid recipients leads to more people in work. It's as simple as that. I don't think it's fair that there are some employers in this country who want to eat their employees off with such low wages. Now I don't think that's very many. We have tried to solve that, I would say. I have asked the Minister for Employment because he made some statement that there were cash aid recipients who would actually add money if they took a low-wage job. I have not been able to get an answer on how many of these are. Now I have asked some other questions during the day to find out how many are actually in the situation that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen describes, but I do not think it is fair to the low-paid that there are employers who eat people off with such low wages, and I do not think it is fair that when the low-paid person becomes unemployed, the low-paid should be hit by the vicious rules that are being put in place here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204003	The rapporteur thinks it is right that there is no difference and that it should not be worthwhile. In order to defend itself, the rapporteur then includes wages negotiated between the social partners, and it is a little embarrassing to have to stand and listen to the Enhedslisten rapporteur when we know that it is salaries that are being negotiated on the labour market. However, the rapporteur cannot admit to the rest of us once and for all that it is important for people that there is a difference between what you get when you go home and what you get when you are in the labour market. We cannot get involved in the labour market, but what we have a say in is cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204100	Yes, the influence of the Folketing is cash aid. That is quite right, and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and the other bourgeois parties off to lower the cash benefits. Can't we just make this clear? That's what this is all about. It's destroying some financial conditions for some people. That's what this bill is all about. Then I'll just have to make my point over and over again, and will Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen and all his colleagues didn't deal with it enough: The low-paid person who goes to work every day may even lubricate liver pie sandwiches, why haven't we got it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204142	It's Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204153	Thank you. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not get a little bad taste in his mouth when he claims that it is difficult to live for the cash benefits that will remain in the future, bearing in mind that we have many, many thousands of pensioners in Denmark who live for much less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204214	See, I fully agree with Mrs Karina Due that there are many, many thousands of pensioners in this country who have far too little to live for. There are very many pensioners who only have a retirement pension and perhaps a little ATP, and that is not going very far. That is why I am so delighted that in the first place we managed to put a stick in the wheel of the Danish People's Party's attack on these people with the proposal to reduce the housing allowance for pensioners that we were presented with at the end of the year. But Mrs Karina Due can be confident that we sleep with our boots on, because we are seriously afraid that it will come back in some creepy form. But when that happens, I will remind Mrs Karina Due of the words that Mrs Karina Due has just said to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204305	I will try to repeat my question: does the rapporteur not get a little bad taste in his mouth when you spend so much gunpowder fighting a case for a few people, claiming that they cannot live for the money they get when we know that there are so many thousands of pensioners who live too much less?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204329	Well, now we're all fighting the cause of vulnerable citizens. What we are dealing with here is a legislative proposal that is about reducing the conditions for cash aid recipients, and then we deal with it, just as we dealt with the proposal to reduce the housing benefits for pensioners, which the Danish People's Party helped to put forward in December. So we fight for all the vulnerable, and then you don't get any bad taste in your mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204355	The next question is Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204401	Thank you. Now I understood from the rapporteur when the rapporteur was presented with the question of 84 per cent. of the married couples, where both husband and wife are on cash benefits, have another ethnic background, that he does not give a damn who gets cash benefits. Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur is also completely indifferent to whether all these people are actually available for the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204427	It is, after all, a curious interest in the ethnic composition of the group of benefit recipients who are married couples. It is an amazing interest that has suddenly emerged here at the end of the process. Surely that is not such a half-suffering excuse that it is okay to cut down on their living conditions? Is that what's behind such a question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204453	I would like the rapporteur to answer this question as to whether he does not care whether people are really available for the labour market, as it has come out in a television broadcast last week that many women with a different ethnic background of their men are refused to go to work. So I would like an answer from the rapporteur as to whether he does not care whether people who are on cash benefits in Denmark are actually available for the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204525	No, of course I don't care about that. The fact is that approx. 70% of all cash benefit recipients and more than it is not available for the labour market. The municipalities have assessed this. As legislators, we need to have confidence in the municipalities' assessment of this. Unfortunately, we cannot impose a different assessment on them. We can make legislation that changes things, and that is evidently being done. As such, however, we cannot question individual assessments. Then it is true that it is a problem if there are some men who refuse their wives to take a job. But now I know the cash benefits rules, and I know how tough they are. It is very simple: if you are not available for the labour market, if the municipality considers that you can work, you will be deprived of cash benefits. It's not necessary to make this bill to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204616	Thank you. Then it's Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204623	Thank you. It's kind of on the same ball street as with the previous one asking where Mr. Finn Sørensen says he doesn't care what the origin of those who are on cash benefits is. If 84 per cent. We have seen, as has been said, that they are not actually available, because in the culture from which they come, the man refuses them to come to work. Mr. Finn Sørensen saw that they are available for the labour market if that is the situation they are in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204655	After all, it is up to the municipality to decide, and the rules are perfectly clear. It is not a valid reason not to take up an assigned job, that the man says that you must not. Well, it's quite obvious. I certainly cannot find that paragraph in the notice of availability, so that problem solves the municipality. But now that we're on the subject of ethnicity, how's sir? Ib Poulsen saw that two thirds of the single parents who are hit enormously hard by this are of ethnic Danish origin? Is it also a very important factor that we need to be involved in the debate, or is Mr. Ib Poulsen is only for the part that has a non-Danish background?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204736	I think that I am the one who is asking questions, and we should therefore like the rapporteur to reply to them today. But we certainly agree that these people must be available for the labour market, they must enter the labour market. We fully agree on that, I think it is very good, and it is from in here that we can legislate and decide that they should be available for the labour market. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen, how he will help solve the problem, that we get these women who go home and are refused work into the labour market. That is something one must have an idea of when one is so much opposed to the legislative proposal that has been put forward. You don't have a bid for it... [Sound Outlook].
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204809	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204818	Well, each of us is allowed to say what we want. And that's where I'll just have to say to Mr. Knox. Ib Poulsen that it cannot be solved through legislation, it cannot. It is the case with the legislation that the responsibility for taking a position at the disposal of the citizens is placed in the job centres, as simple as that. And the law is full of clear rules about what it takes to be available and the many, many sanctions that people may be affected by. We think it is quite monstrous, but that is the way the law is, and that is something the municipalities take a position on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204850	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204856	Thank you very much. It seems that the rapporteur is more busy scolding all of us, rather than pointing out what one imagined would be a solution to this problem. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: when there is an over-representation of people from other ethnic backgrounds, do we not recognise that there may be a problem connected with it? That's one thing. And the other thing is: if not the benefit in this proposal is good enough, what benefit does Enhedslisten think you should have when you are on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315204925	But there is certainly good reason to scold, if that is how the rapporteur sees it. I now think it is a fairly objective and precise criticism that I make of this bill, but it is taste and pleasure. But one obviously never cares about the fact that someone like to tell the truth about what the real purpose and agenda of this bill is. So I think I'm trying to explain why I'm opposed to it. Every bird sings with its beak, and I try to say things as clearly and clearly as I can. In relation to the issue of immigrant representation in the cash aid system, it is true that they are over-represented, and this is not just the case with the married couples we are talking about. There are two approaches to that question. One is to punish those people by taking the cash from them. The second is to ask yourself whether, as a society, you are not doing something wrong since it is so. Perhaps we are really bad at helping those people in as part of our society, and perhaps there is some rhetoric that makes us stand by ourselves if we want them to be integrated into our society at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205037	But it is a good thing that we can get this far, that is to say to a kind of common understanding, and then this part of the labour market: does the rapporteur believe that people can be brought into the labour market if they, for example, are able to enter the labour market? Do you think they can't scan a medist sausage down in Føtex? Does the rapporteur really believe that? That's one thing, and the other thing is that this costs something. It costs money, and that money has to come from somewhere. How many hours do the working people have to work more to finance the ever-increasing financial burden these people are?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205113	I didn't really understand that thing about scanning the medist sausage. Well, I think all people can learn that if they are physically or mentally able to show up at a workplace. In fact, I think you can learn that fairly quickly, so this is probably not the kind of barrier we have. Compared to the one about working anymore, it is not necessary at all. If we distribute the wealth that is in this country, which is one of the world's five richest countries, that is probably no. 5 then no one needs to work anymore. On the contrary. Then there is a good basis for reducing working hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205147	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205152	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur avoided answering what my colleague asked about very cleverly. If the Enhedslisten could determine what the benefit would be, what would it be on? If Enhedslisten had the chance to set that level himself, what would it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205206	I have, in fact, answered that question earlier this day. At the moment, we are dealing with combating further deterioration for some of the people who have the most difficulty in this society. Then I have pointed out earlier this day, and I would like to repeat this: the first thing that needs to be done in relation to the social benefits in this country, including the national pension, is that they are being regulated on an equal footing with wage developments so that they can make up for the rather large backlog they have achieved since the introduction of this so-called rate pool regulation. Then we must eliminate the totally unfair and anti-social deterioration in the regulation of transfer income introduced by the tax reform in 2012. These are the first two steps we would take in this area if we could be allowed to decide. But unfortunately we are about alone with it in the Folketing; there we get no help from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205302	It was a very long answer to a very simple question, and I ask again, I try again. I did not relate to everything the rapporteur said, but I would just like to know: if Enhedslisten could decide for himself, what would the benefit be? Can we not have a very specific offer instead of all this weaver where we would rather talk about it than answer the very specific questions asked by the Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205326	I have answered very specifically: we need to abolish the rate-pooling regulation, and we need to eliminate the deterioration introduced by the tax reform in 2012 which has led to further delays in cash benefits recipients, pensioners and beneficiaries of benefits, and that they are going to pay approx. 30 billion. kr. for tax relief, which goes in particular to some of those who are best placed in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205349	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205404	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for taking this debate, although we have of course had it sometimes. There are consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, yes, that goes without saying. The minister thinks 700 more are going to get started. That is the part about the fact that when it is possible to work, 700 people are going to work. We just didn't see that in the '00s. It didn't work out, but you think it's gonna do that now. The result is that 24 000 people are affected and 34 500 children are also affected. Poverty rose in the '00s when you did this, and when we once again abolished this ceiling, poverty fell. And a lot of those who really know about it, those who have to do with this every day, the social workers, the housing associations and all the others think it's going to go like this again. But the Danish People's Party certainly does not think so, and neither does the Minister. Those who know something about it won't listen to, because you know better. After all, the minister also says that poverty is not a word that you focus on. And what does DF do, the Danish People's Party? They don't ask questions. I would say that there will also be more delays. There were several postponements in the '00s and there were fewer while we were in government because we just abolished this. And now there will again be further postponements according to the same sources that the Danish People's Party and the Left do not listen to. According to the Minister, there are also 70%. This is a matter of concern to people who are ill, people who cannot just get started. Is that a large number? I heard the Danish People's Party say at one point that it is not very many. But that's so about. 19,000 out of 25,000 people who are affected by 19,000 people who have virtually no chance of getting started and who get it really, really difficult. But you don't listen to that either. When so many people don't have the great opportunities to get started, I just have to ask how you can believe it works. It seems that the Danish People's Party is completely indifferent to all those who are having a hard time. I am really glad that the Danish People's Party, right this evening, where there are not so many viewers, wants to discuss with us and have a proper debate; I am super happy for that. And here I have to go to the Danish People's Party once again, because we saw the housing service, where they also found it difficult to find out what was up and down on it. Then there's the money from the municipalities that you were ready to take. And now you want to cut back on the services of the weakest. I just have to say to the Danish People's Party: The Danish People's Party has again been taken by the government, but this happens a little often. What, then, is the next thing we can expect from the Danish People's Party? 'Cause when sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl said before the election that he would not cut back on the benefits, but then do it anyway, then you can expect a little of each. I just have to say to the Danish People's Party: Stop the search for people who need help and who really believe in the Danish People's Party. Now stop flogging them, which is what you do. Listen to the people who in the media show how difficult it is and how hard it gets. Try to listen to them. This is just gonna be hard. I think the price is too high. I think that the result is too small if you can see a result at all, because you couldn't do that in the '00s. Then I could also hear that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe was a little offended and said that Mr. Finn Sørensen should not put wrong intentions in the mouth of the Danish People's Party. I just have to say: these people do not get food in their mouths because DF has good or bad or hidden intentions, because I cannot really see the intentions. I think they don't really care about Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe's feelings. They just want something to live on, and that's kind of what you take from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205806	There are a number of brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205812	My goodness, as usual, the Socialist rapporteur on this matter is making a mess! I mean, we can discuss this over and over again, and then I just have to say again that we are introducing this ceiling on cash benefits because we know that economic incentives are working. In fact, the Socialists think so too, or have you forgotten it too? Have you actually forgotten that you yourself think financial incentives are working? Otherwise, would you not have introduced training benefits instead of cash benefits, at least in kroner and ear terms, in relation to cash benefits for young people under 30 who have no training? Come on, sir, get in the game. Leif Lahn Jensen. Tell me now and be honest, put the cards on the table: you think it's a good idea to have financial incentives for this group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205905	I fully agree: economic incentives work if they can do so with the benefits to young people at the time in the context of cash aid: remember that it was young people who were ready for training. They were not ready for activity, they were ready for training. That is to say, what the Danish People's Party is touching here is activity ready. This corresponds to the fact that if the Danish People's Party were to do this with this bill, as we did at the time with the young people where it actually worked, and where there were a lot of young people who went from cash to education; it worked much better than what was done in the 00s, then they had to remove all the activities and only the job preparation. But the Danish People's Party does not, because then it is only 5,000 people, and then you cannot get 16 DKK. for tax reliefs. In this way, the Danish People's Party has been bought somewhere like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315205956	It would suit the Socialists to stick to the specifics. It may be said that for a certain group, economic incentives will work if people are resourceful. That is what I heard the rapporteur say. But then explain to me why it is that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats are also in favour of parental orders, where it is so that if you as parents do not live up to this parental requirement that you, for example, should be allowed to do so. Send your kids to school and you'll be pulled into the children's check. What else I have heard the criticism of the parents' commission is that children's checks are being cut by those who are actually resourceless. But the Social Democrats support that too, so come on now: you actually support the fact that economic incentives work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210045	That's what I told you. I have said that we support them when, but we all know well, as long as we think a little about it, it doesn't work to take money from people who are sick and then think that they are going to work. Will a sick person recover from taking money from the sick person? Can a blind man begin to see again because we make the blind one poor? The Danish People's Party does not believe that. I just have to say: here I stand, 24 000 people are affected by this, and 16 000 of them are ready for activity. But the 16 000 cannot work because there is something with them, and it is clear that it does not work. How could that be?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210123	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210129	Thank you to the rapporteur for another committed speech. I would like to express my satisfaction at the good cooperation we have had in this matter. I think we will also have it right up to the third reading. I think the rapporteur has done a good job of commitment, concrete and objective. I think it's good. I have to ask a question which I think the rapporteur has guessed will come. If we then agree to criticise this bill for all its harmful effects, why can we not also agree to promise all the people who are affected and all those who will be affected in the future that as soon as we get the majority, as soon as we get the power, what we get after the next elections, we will abolish this legislation? Would it not be very good if we could take hands of each other in the opposition and say: yes, we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210231	I have no doubt that we can do that for a second. What we need to remember is that the last time we were in government, we abolished those poverty benefits together. When I'm here in this case, it's actually because we think this is a huge problem, and I have no doubt that when it happens, and hopefully before this goes all wrong, we're gonna get back to it, we're gonna start talking about what's gonna happen. We will of course do that with the Enhedslisten, because I do not believe for a second that the Danish People's Party is ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210308	Thank you. I sense that the rapporteur has a clear wish that this should happen. But if that is the case, why could we not agree to write in a joint contribution to the report that this is what we promise these citizens? Is there not a great need for us to give these people together a hope for the future? They have certainly been hit incredibly hard now, but as soon as we get the opportunity, we will remove this legislation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210341	By the way, thank you for the rose before. It is pretty big that Finn Sørensen and the Enhedslisten praise a social democrat, I am pleased about that. When you hear the dunders and the things I've been driving and also think about what we did in the '00s, I think most people know that we won't stand for this when we get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210357	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210402	Sir. Finn Sørensen can then assess whether it was a guarantee that was issued there from the Parliament's platform. I don't know if the viewers might have been comforted by it. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur considers it reasonable that the benefit of a single parent with three children should be paid by entering work to DKK 17 700. Only if you follow the position of the Social Democrats is and must be 600 kr. 30 kr. per month. during the day by taking a job for collective pay. Does the rapporteur consider this to be reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210447	I would like there to be a really big difference if you go to work. That is also why I was pleased that the last government with the Social Democracy actually made a difference through the tax agreement. We simply had to clean up after the present Prime Minister, because when the Prime Minister last time was Prime Minister, it just went in the wrong direction. By the way, the tax agreement we made together meant that nine out of ten actually have more than 2,000 kroner. to themselves by going to work, and when the agreement is fully phased in, all cash benefits recipients have more of going to work. I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party just had four years in government, because then we had the opportunity to rectify it. So, sir. Hans Andersen can be completely safe, we've done something about that. I just hope the Prime Minister doesn't ruin it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210539	I must conclude that the rapporteur considers it reasonable to have only 30 kroner. out of going to work if you change the cash benefits with a job that pays the minimum wage of DKK 17,700. The Socialists think that is quite reasonable: DKK 30. a day. You haven't paid the bus ticket, you haven't joined the a-box yet. 30 kroner. a day. If you do the last thing, you're gonna lose it. And the Socialists think that is quite reasonable. We therefore believe that there should be a tangible benefit from going to work. That is why we have put forward this proposal for a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule, and we have to note that we do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210627	Yeah, yeah, I kind of agree with that very, very much. The difference between my party and Mr. Hans Andersen's party is that my party has done something about it, and Mr. Hans Andersen's party isn't. That's kind of the difference. But you can also turn it around and ask: is it reasonable to make all these people poor? Is it reasonable to give many of these disabled, sick people, people who are having a hard time, some benefits for which they simply cannot live? Is that fair? I know that this side of the House is much more concerned with some other things than I am. So I'm interested in these people, and I'm deeply concerned, but apparently I have that concern on my own.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210700	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210704	When you hear the debate, you get the impression that the Socialists are more interested in the Danish People's Party than in the people we are talking about. I would ask the rapporteur to reply to this, because it must be possible for a labour market rapporteur to answer: does the rapporteur believe that there must be a difference in income between the wages agreed by the social partners and the amount that can be obtained from the public system? If no, why not? If so, how great is the difference to be, and how will the social democracy achieve that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210747	Yeah, I mean that. We did, in fact, achieve it already when we had the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210756	Then what's it in crowns and ears? Well, as it is now, a single mother on cash benefits with two children has DKK 1,500. more available. But it's enough with a difference of 2,000 kroner. a month for a low-wage job with 37 hours of work week? Is it enough to get 2,000 kroner? out of working in a low-wage job every month?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210829	I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen, that the price for this is what worries me. I certainly believe, as we have always believed, that there must of course be an incentive to go to work. We have done the same ourselves, but the price is just too high. I'm just saying that I'm also interested in the people that Mr. Apparently, Joachim B. Olsen wasn't interested in it. We have mentioned them before. We know them all. All those people who are having a hard time, who have no chance of getting to work, and who this side obviously doesn't care about; they don't care about them. They are interested in DKK 17 700, they are interested in DKK 2 000, and whether it is a pair of shoes or whatever, I would say they are not interested in these people. I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210910	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315210918	Thank you. The Social Democrats were once a working party, it is no longer. Now it has become an academic party and an official party. It is a party that cares more about people being on unemployment benefit or on cash benefits. It is no longer a party that takes care of the people who stand up and go to work every day, even though they do not have much to do with it. On the other hand, there are four parties on the bourgeois wing who would like it to be worthwhile to go to work. And since we do not have any influence on wages, because it is the social partners who take care of it, we must, of course, look at the high levels of cash benefits and the total benefits that are given to people on cash benefits. Then Mr. However, Leif Lahn Jensen is not helping to turn the Social Democrats back into a working party by voting in favour of this proposal and reducing cash aid by introducing a ceiling so that there is a noticeable difference in going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211029	The Social Democrats are a working party, and that is why we have helped to correct the unfair unemployment benefit reform led by the Danish People's Party; that is why we fight against every time the Danish People's Party, together with the government, closes down one good environmental action after another. Then I can also just say that DF was also once a party for the weakest. It wasn't that long ago that it was during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211052	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211055	There wasn't much answer to that question, so I'd like to ask you something else. We have approx. 100,000 East Europeans in Denmark, at the same time as we have 175,000 cash aid recipients. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a connection between the fact that we import so many Eastern Europeans and the fact that we have so many cash aid recipients, in that cash aid is so high that it is hardly worth going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211121	It is so fun to discuss with some people who have little understanding of what is happening in the labour market and what their own party has done. Because if someone has not fought against social dumping, then it is the Danish People's Party. If anyone has done something to combat social dumping, then it is precisely the Social Democrats, and we do so every single time, every day, and the Danish People's Party is failing. So again I have to say to the questioner: Dear people ask no, the Danish People's Party is not a working party, the Danish People's Party is not a party for the weakest, and I think it is about to realise a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211152	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211159	Thank you. Well, it is quite fantastic to hear that the rapporteur is able to go so far as to tell about everyone else's policy rather than his own. But let me tell you a little bit about the rapporteur's own policy and his own party. For during the previous parliamentary term, when the rapporteur's party was in government, a pre-time and flexible job reform was carried out, of which the Danish People's Party was not a part. And that also means that when the rapporteur tries to polish up a halo, as he does by talking about these people who have no chance of getting to work and should have had an early retirement, the rapporteur's party has helped prevent them from doing so by this early and flexible job reform. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211238	It is actually the case that there have been more flex jobs. In fact, in some places more have come from early retirement and from work. But it doesn't work well enough yet, I'll admit it. I dare admit some things, though. But that is the right thing to do, because what we did with that reform was to try to help them get started. We really had some intentions to get these people going, not necessarily by taking money away from them, but by helping them get started. Therefore, I just have to say that when the questioner says that I am constantly going after the Danish People's Party and what they think it is because I do not know what the Danish People's Party means. They get offended when we start talking about their intentions. We heard that before. When we try to guess what they think, the Danish People's Party is insulted as such by some small children who suddenly feel stepped on. We're just trying to figure out what the Danish People's Party wants, and if they don't say anything, we can figure out that what they just want is to take from the weakest and then give them 16 kroner. a month in tax relief. That's what I have to guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211335	I did not really get an answer as to whether the rapporteur was able to confirm that he is actually helping to keep a few people in this grey area firmly on cash aid rather than on early retirement, as the rapporteur believes they should. But I can also understand that the rapporteur has just made a promise to the voters out there that if it should happen that the rapporteur's party came back to power, he will roll it back here. I think the voters could get a clear answer to that. Will the Social Democrats bring this back if they go and get power at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211421	But there's just something I don't understand. There is simply something I do not understand, because now the questioner is talking about a grey area and some on early retirement and some on cash benefits that are awful. These are some of these activities. While the questioner feels terrible about these people, you go in with this bill and take money from them. That is what I am thundering against, and what I cannot understand is how you can stand and ask me questions about some people that you seem to feel bad about sitting in that situation, and then you stand and take money away from them. I think that is simply weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211453	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211501	Thank you. I think there's a lot, a lot of things, like mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has a hard time understanding. That's how I can track myself down. It is said incredibly many times that we take money from the sick, that we take money from the disabled, that we take money from the very weakest. I have to point out to the rapporteur that if you are ill and if you are disabled and thus unable to work, you do not belong under the aegis of cash benefits. That's just the way it is. If it is the case that there are some in the system who receive cash benefits, even if they are too sick or too disabled to be able to perform a job, then they are misplaced, and then it is some quite other places that need to be addressed. Those people need to be taken care of. But it does not help to say that because there is a small group that is misplaced, we should not do anything about the large group. I can mention again the 79.3 million of the Levakovic family. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211602	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211605	If the Danish People's Party really thinks that some people are misplaced, why doesn't the Danish People's Party go to the government and ask, "Why don't we do this in reverse?" Shouldn't we make sure these people are put right before we take money from them? The Danish People's Party is part of the majority. The Minister is sitting right there, so go to the Minister and say: it is awful about these people that we care about. We'll just turn it around, we'll make sure we put it right before we take money from them. But you don't. That is why what is being said here is hollow. We are sorry, we do not think that all these people are placed right, but we are still taking money away from them, because, as the rapporteur, Marlene Harpsøe, says, financial incentives are needed, and they will probably get started. What I'm hearing here is really, really hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211655	Would the rapporteur agree with me that sometimes some measures are taken which might be used in some cases which were not intended for the large picture to tighten up? I have to refer again to the Levakovic family. 79,3 million kr. they've milked the municipal coffers. If we can't do something about these things, where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211723	That is not right, and we must do something about it. Could the questioner not also agree with me that then we should also do something for all the people that the questioner, when she votes on Thursday, helps to make poor and give difficult conditions? Why don't we do something for them, too? Or does the questioner not care about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211740	Sir. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211744	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and pay tribute to the fact that he cares so much about the Danish People's Party and our policy that we were mentioned as many times as we did in the rapporteur's speech. Lonnie and the others were mentioned. Where are they supposed to go? Isn't it an early retirement pension or something other than cash benefits they're supposed to be on? Now there has been an exchange of words about who is most worker-friendly here, and then it is just that I ask: was it not the previous government that introduced an early and flex reform that has been chasing the weakest in our society? It's 90 percent. less today, who gets early retirement. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211833	I do not really care much about the politics of the Danish People's Party. Actually, I don't like it very much, especially in this area. I don't like that very much. So I just have to say again that there have been more flex jobs, and if you look at the figures, you can see that it has gone the right way. That is not good enough, and there are also problems with this reform, which I am happy to admit, and we must do something about it all the time. The municipalities have not done well enough, not everyone at least, and I am very interested in that too, and we must do so when we make reforms, but we must also dare to admit if we are doing something wrong. It's basically just what I'm trying to get the Danish People's Party to admit today. There you have to say that even if you say again and again: Give me an answer, please give me an answer, it still seems that I am somewhat more honest about things than the Danish People's Party is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211918	Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211931	Thank you. I think I've overtaken my colleague in the press line, well, it doesn't matter. If you have a completely free choice and you say you go to work and then you have a financial gain of DKK 30, or you stay at home and you have DKK 30. What, then, does the rapporteur think he is going to choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315211947	That was a few years ago, but two or three years ago I heard that there was a figure saying that there were 300,000 people working on minimum wages. 300,000 people are quite many. So there are a lot of people working on these salaries, and many times when I talk to them, they say, "You know what, it's not always just the salary I go to work for." It's actually because I want to be part of the working community. That's because I want to be part of it with my colleagues and have something to stand up for. Therefore, I think that the blue side over there just sometimes goes completely wrong and wrong of it. Many of the workers I worked with back then actually liked to have that job and it was worth a lot. I think that should be remembered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212024	Okay, so let me ask you another way: does the rapporteur think that there is an economic incentive to get more people into the labour market if you get a profit of DKK 30?? And what amount does the Social Democratic Party think is fair to get when you are on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212046	I think there's an advantage in that. There is, of course, an economic incentive. That's why we did something about it. Lars Løkke Ramussen didn't do it. So, yeah, I believe that. And I do not think that the benefit should be higher. But unlike the Danish People's Party, I do not think it should be lower either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212105	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212109	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur belongs to a party that believes that financial incentives work. I will therefore count on this after the rapporteur's party chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, made a very tough reform as Minister for Employment in relation, in particular, to young people's access to cash benefits and the benefits that were there. There were financial incentives that made sense to cut back. If you were to believe the Socialists, you could spend the money on corporate tax reductions, but there was an economic incentive. The rapporteur's party chose to hold on to this. How can it be if I have to ask that financial incentives work against young Danes, but that the rapporteur does not think it works against the 80%. of married couples of non-Western backgrounds who are on the arrangement that we are discussing now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212203	That is because the rapporteur does not listen to what I am saying and what I have said before. What is the difference between what we were doing and what we are doing now is that the young people we hit were, in fact, those who were ready for training, some who could. Those who were ready for activity, those who are like those that the Danish People's Party is now hitting, did not receive a lower benefit, they retained the fixed benefit. That's the difference. We would not make anyone poorer with it; we would give those who could a chance. But the Danish People's Party has a different attitude. They believe that even the sick or the disabled also benefit from withdrawing money. We do not think so. And that is why there is a huge difference between what we did then and what the Danish People's Party stands for. And that's why what we did back then actually worked. I think there were a few thousand of the young people who got an education and came on cash aid. And now we see that this is only 700, and in the '00s it didn't give anything. So the way we went then was much more effective, because we did something for those who had some opportunities and where the Danish People's Party stands for something quite different. But it is then the Danish People's Party that has to explain it to their voters.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212305	So let me ask another question: how will the rapporteur get the over 80%? of the married couples on this scheme, which is of non-Western background, in work? And if the rapporteur does not want to discuss benefits, what will the rapporteur do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212322	Well, I want to discuss cash aid reform, as we did when we were in government, and also with the Danish People's Party. And what we said was that we kind of didn't care if it was ethnic Danes or anyone else should get started if they can. We said right and duty, and if they cannot, we must help them with the things we can now help them with. I don't really care where they come from. If they can, they have to, and if they can't, we have to help them. And the way you help them is not always just by taking money from them, it can also be other ways. And I'd like to tell the Danish People's Party about that another day, because we don't have time for that today. But I don't think they understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212351	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212409	Since the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule were abolished by the previous government, the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased. We in the Danish People's Party believe that it is not an end in itself to be on cash aid. It is best both for the individual and for society that you are in work and that you can support yourself and your family. And we are concerned that the target group in question should be in education and jobs. The ceiling on cash benefits can contribute to this. In other words, it should not be economically advantageous to be on cash rather than on work. If you can for us in the Danish People's Party it is crucial that you should be able to pay for your work. We want to stick to that. Those who are the weakest are included in resource programmes, and they are not covered by the ceiling, which is also important for us in the Danish People's Party to point out. Similarly, we have chosen to exempt persons from the ceiling on cash benefits if they live in a special residence designated by the municipality and therefore receive a particularly high level of housing support. Similarly, persons are exempted from the cash benefits ceiling if they have found a suitable accommodation and also receive a particularly high level of housing support on this basis. In addition to the ceiling on cash benefits, we are at the same time introducing a stricter requirement that, as a cash benefit recipient, we should, of course, be available for the labour market. This means that you must have been in work for a minimum of 225 hours in one year in order to receive the full cash benefits. This will increase the incentive to take a job rather than be on cash benefits. Persons with such a limited capacity to work that the municipality estimates that they will not be able to work 225 hours within one year on the ordinary labour market are not covered by this stricter requirement. Having seen some documentary broadcasts on TV 2 about mosques and imams, it must also be luminous to everyone that there are also some people who do not actually want to take a job. And I hope that this will also be acknowledged in the Chamber today. For some groups it would be much more convenient to live on cash benefits. The sense of reality for several parties has been tightened up lately, but that does not change the fact that, for example, we are dealing with a number of issues. could read in Fyens Stiftstidende on Sunday that it has occurred that people refuse to sit in a box in Fact because they do not want to touch a medister sausage. There could be pork in there. Women are counseled in some of the mosques not to take a job, and the following figures speak for themselves: the number of spouses, both of whom are on cash benefits, has increased enormously since the Social Democrats abolished the ceiling on cash benefits. In addition, if you look at this group of benefit recipients, who are spouses, you will find that it is 84 per cent who have a non-Western origin. I mean, 84%. If you look at spouses where it is the one who receives cash benefits, you will find that it is 66 per cent who have a non-Western origin. Sixty-six percent. Dear Social Democrats. You have failed massively. You have so failed and made it possible for too many people, whom it is not possible to integrate into Danish society, to be admitted. And now you stand here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament and yell at us in the Danish People's Party because we are cleaning up your own failed and naïve policy in the field of foreigners for the last 30 years. Because that's one of them. What this bill is about. There is an increasing sense of reality to see in the Socialists, but... acknowledge that you have failed! Stand by it and get into the fight to ensure that people of non-Western origin also come into work rather than live for years on public support! What really happened to the good old socialist mantra that people who can have to do that is exactly what this bill, L 113, is about. It is precisely that everyone who can must contribute to society, and therefore it is incomprehensible that the Socialists, as an old working party, are so opposed to creating economic incentives to be in ordinary employment rather than living on public support. The ceiling on cash aid is good, old-fashioned social democratic policy, and it is therefore incomprehensible that there are no more people who can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212933	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. We have a number of brief comments to make. We'll start with sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315212938	Welcome to the platform. I've been looking forward to that all day. I expected it to be this morning or this afternoon, but now it is nice to see the rapporteur on the platform. So welcome. Many of us have waited anxiously for this, and it is nice to see that Marlene Harpsøe also wants to do so. I have to say that there's a lot of consultation answers... about everyone who says there's more homeless and more poor with this bill. The rapporteur does not think so. Where did the rapporteur get that knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213012	Cash benefits are therefore a temporary benefit. We just have to make that clear. It may be that, for a temporary period, you have to look at your budgets to make them fit. But we also have to recognise that it is for a temporary period, and I hope the rapporteur will agree with that. It is therefore a good thing that we have a social safety net which, for a temporary period, can help people in the situation in which they are, until they can obtain normal employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213048	Does this mean that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has accepted that there are some who are temporarily poor?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213054	Who's gonna be poor? I ask Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. We've got one of them. an example in relation to this temporary cash benefits allowance that, after the introduction of the cash benefits ceiling, you can get up to DKK 17,400. a month after tax, if you are single and have two children. Is that poverty? I think that there are a lot of people out there in Danish society who are in employment today who are going to be sighing for that amount because they are also in the situation that they have to tighten up budgets. They may also have a rent that they have to pay, and they must make sure that food comes on the table and that airplane suits are bought for the kids every winter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213131	The next one is sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213134	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for giving a speech, but I do not want to thank her for her speech. I think it was quite unpleasant because now the cat got out of the bag about what I asked one of the rapporteur's colleagues over here. Now we have confirmed that the driving force of the Danish People's Party's support for this bill is that in the view of the Danish People's Party there are some boring people of foreign origin who will not touch a medist sausage or what kind of sausage it was. With that pretext, 30,000 people are being punished financially. Thousands of families are put in danger of being evicted from their homes. I think that is simply strong tobacco. Would the rapporteur just explain to me how many of these unpleasant people would like to be affected by this bill, which is hiding among the 30,000?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213244	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur believes that, in relation to the Danish People's Party's drive to enter this bill, it is exclusively about people of non-Western origin. That is not the case. In the Danish People's Party, we've gone into this because we want to be able to work regardless of ethnic origin. It should not be the case that it may be more convenient to go home on public support rather than take ordinary work. It is also with some respect for the people who go out there every day working hard and working hard and getting a salary that may not be much higher than what you get on cash benefits. It is also to show some respect for the working people, whom I also think we should have some respect for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213333	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213335	Now I do not think that the rapporteur should try to run away from what the rapporteur used most of his speech, namely to suspect a lot of people. That's what happened. Don't do that. Stand by what has been said; otherwise you can read it afterwards. But let's move on with the answer I got. Can the rapporteur explain to me how a low-paid employee is better off by, for example, the fact that he is in a position to do so? Takes 162,000 kroner. from a married couple because they don't live up to the 225-hour rule? How is the low-paid employee better off?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213417	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213420	Now it is not the case that we in the Danish People's Party suspect anyone. However, we do have a sense of reality which we do not have in the Enhedslisten, and that means that we can actually see a connection between the massive immigration that the Socialists made possible, that is to say, as they have made possible over the last 30 years, and the failed integration policy that exists and so the figures we are looking at, among other things. the area of cash benefits. So, I say again: in relation to spouses, where both parties are on cash benefits, it is 84 per cent who have a non-Western origin. And you just have to admit that from the Enhedslisten's side, if we're gonna get rid of this problem at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213459	Thank you. The next short remark is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213505	After all, the Danish People's Party has taken over the language of the Ministry of Finance. Several times Mrs Marlene Harpsøe was inside using the expression that there must be increased incentives to get people to work. How, then, will Mrs Marlene Harpsøe explain that even with the most optimistic figures presented by the Ministry of Employment, 650 people are going to work? How can one, as the Danish People's Party, argue that it increases the incentive, and then the effect is apparently non-existent, even after the most optimistic figures from the Ministry of Employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213544	Well, it has an effect. These financial incentives have an effect. We've got one of them. In the case of the Social Democrats who were involved in yes, it was actually their handiwork, one might say to give young cash benefit recipients under 30 years of age without training training aid instead of cash assistance, which is a lower benefit than cash benefits. In fact, this has meant that a great many young people have now entered education and jobs, and this is very positive. This also means that financial incentives work, and that is very welcome. Therefore, not only do we want to use it in this area as well. In any case, it can be said that we have had a cash aid ceiling in the past, and now we are reintroducing it, and that is very welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213633	Yes, it is unfortunate that I did not just ask a question that corresponded to the answer I was given, but I can try again. If, like Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, we take the rhetoric of the Ministry of Finance that it is the increased incentives that make people get to work, why do we end up with a virtually undetectable effect? It then adds up to the next one that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe drew up, namely the increase in the number of cash benefits recipients. There Mrs Marlene Harpsøe put forward the idea that this was due to the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits that we had in the past. So I have to ask again: why is the effect not greater than the completely optimistic figure of only 650 people? It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213711	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213714	I completely disagree that there should be no measurable effect. I completely disagree with that. And I would say that it is not an end in itself to be on cash benefits. We are well aware in the Danish People's Party that it is no happiness to be on cash benefits; it is something temporary, it is during a temporary transitional period that you are on cash benefits. So I would just like to state that it is not an end in itself to be on cash benefits, and that is why we must ensure that as many people as possible get into ordinary employment if they have that ability to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213742	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213750	Thank you. Let us stick to this once and for all about an economic incentive, because I hear the rapporteur mention this over and over again. Can we not then become concrete, I would like to ask the rapporteur, and would the rapporteur not point out just one study which demonstrates that the former ceiling on cash benefits had an employment effect, and thus that an economic incentive in this area for this target group of people who are ill and unable to take up a job should work? Just mention me one studio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213826	I could kind of ask the same question. In other words, the Social Democrats themselves have wanted to support a parental order cutting down on cash aid for some people, which can also be said to be a vulnerable target group. That is why I think it is rather strange to be asked this question, because it is well known to the Socialists themselves that financial incentives work. Otherwise they would not have been used, either in relation to parental leave or in relation to education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213859	If you can work, you have to work. If you can train, you have to train. But this is a group of people who are sick and on whom the rapporteur claims that an economic incentive works. Name me one studio to document it. Then I would like to point out that we have been informed by the Ministry of Employment that there is in fact a study of the cash benefits ceiling in the 00s, but that there was no effect whatsoever of an economic incentive. So it cannot be documented, but the rapporteur gets another chance: name me one study that shows it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315213941	Now it is, sir. Troels Ravn keeps saying that the sick are on cash benefits. But this is the case, and I would just like to point out that if you are so ill that you cannot work and have no ability to work, or are disabled and have no ability to work, then you should not be in the cash benefits system. Then you have been misplaced; then you are placed on a wrong performance. I just want to make that clear, because that's what mantra I hear over and over again. Therefore, I just have to say again that it is not the case that if you are ill and incapable of working, you have to be in the cash benefits system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214013	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214016	Thank you. Now we have heard very, very many times today, and again here in the rapporteur's remarks, that cutting people's cash aid is really a defence of the low-paid in the labour market. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to help me remember the hearing we were at together, which was held a few weeks ago, where I know the rapporteur was there and what the message was from the member of the Economic Council, Torben Tranæs, he was there for the Rockwool Foundation, and we know that the Economic Council has also written it in their annual report last year. Can the rapporteur remember what was said about the link between reducing benefits and what happens to the lowest paid in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214105	Something I particularly noticed in relation to the hearing we held was the point that financial incentives also work. That was one of the things I particularly stressed and heard at that hearing, and I was just confirmed in the light of the experience that has been gained, among other things. in relation to persons receiving educational assistance. I would like to say again that it must therefore be the case that it must be worthwhile to take ordinary work rather than to be on cash benefits. Everything else equal must be that way. I know that the Socialists want something quite different. The Social Democrats seem to see it as an end in itself that as many people as possible are on cash aid, but that is just not how we see it in the Danish People's Party. We want to have this social safety net, so if you get unemployed and can't support yourself, you can be taken care of, at least financially. Having said that, however, the labour market must also be re-entered as soon as possible, of course if you have a working capacity equivalent to the work you can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214220	First of all, what the rapporteur says makes no sense at all, because at one point the rapporteur reminds us Socialists of what we were doing in the past, and at the other time she claims that we have an independent objective that as many people as possible should be on support. I can tell you that we don't. I thought, however, that the rapporteur would not reply to that. Perhaps it is because the answer is unpleasant, perhaps it is because the rapporteur does not remember it, but then I should like to remind you of it. What the wise men have said quite clearly many times, what Torben Tranæs reminded us of at the hearing of the Employment Committee here in the Danish Parliament, is that when you reduce benefits, wages in the lower part of the labour market follow. Those with the lowest wages will find that the wage level is falling because the level of benefits is (First Vice-President Thank you! )... a form of bottom level below wages. First Vice-President: rapporteur. ) So that means that there is no...
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214304	Thank you! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214309	In other words, it is not the case that we are interfering with what is negotiated by the social partners in relation to agreements. Agreements are agreements, and we are not beginning to interfere in the work that is being negotiated there. I'd like to say that. But it is clear that, unfortunately, the Socialists still have a certain amount of naivety, I think, in relation to this area. I do not think it is considered that there are actually very many people who have a non-Western origin, who are in the cash aid system and who are then left there rather than making the right demands to get them into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214350	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214355	These people have to take a job," says the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Sounds like work is something you go down and pick on the trees. Is the Danish People's Party aware that we have had a financial crisis that has affected Denmark, that thousands of jobs have disappeared, especially in rural areas outside the big cities, that many of the people who became unemployed are those who have since ended up on cash benefits because the unemployment benefit period was reduced at the initiative of the Danish People's Party? Is the Danish People's Party aware that there are far more available Danes than there are available jobs? One cannot just take a job, I would say to the rapporteur. We have unemployment in Denmark, and making people poorer doesn't create a single job anymore. It just makes people poorer. Will the rapporteur not recognise that the result of this is not that jobs are being created in Denmark, not that unemployment is being combated, but that the people affected by unemployment are being combated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214510	We often hear in this debate and it is completely wrong that there are no jobs to get that there are no jobs to apply for. Then I would just like to inform you, among other things. The unitary list in this area that our employment is actually growing at present. This is the case for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (see section 4.4). 5,000 jobs a month. And it has been calculated that in one year there were over 700,000 job openings in Denmark. But the growth of employment is really, really positive, and I think that we should put on the jahat and say: how well we are making progress in this area. But you don't. Nor do we realize, nor do we realize, that in fact, many of these jobs are occupied by Eastern European labour force when we actually have unemployed Danes who could fill those jobs. It is strange, then, that instead of ensuring that unemployed Danes get to work, it is strange to import Eastern European labour force.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214615	Yes, we can agree on the latter. But the Danish People's Party is not prepared to do what it takes, namely to say that Danish employers should not be allowed to import labour from outside, in the event that there is a job available at home. You can only talk. This about your policy here expressing respect for the people who go to work is probably the saddest argument that has been raised, because the low-paid SOSU assistant or warehouse worker is not getting richer or happier by the fact that the neighbour or the unemployed colleague is getting poorer. It is precisely the same groups that are most exposed to unemployment themselves, which will be the fastest worn out, as are those who will end up in the cash aid system. Your bill is not just an attack on the unemployed, it is an attack on all employees in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214655	Thank you! Sir. Pelle Dragsted, please! I would ask you to keep to your speaking time. I am actually very patient, but speaking time is being exceeded quite a lot. Now it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214712	I was a little distracted because there was that exchange of words and that interruption at the end, but of course I know what this is all about in relation to, among other things. Eastern European labour force and the rise in employment. I think it is very significant that a large number of parties do not recognise that there is actually an increase in employment and that it is not clear that much of the new jobs that are coming are being filled by Eastern European workers. Why don't you just admit it? Put it honestly that this is the case and do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214752	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214800	Thank you. I therefore think that the rapporteur is very good at that style, which is called to ignore or to answer something quite different, or not to answer at all, in relation to the questions which I think are being asked very relevant from down here. What the rapporteur says is that cash benefits must be a temporary benefit. That is very interesting because the rapporteur can then try to explain to the thousands of people who have spent years on cash benefits without having had the opportunity to come from there, and that is among other things. people who are sick and who are disabled. The rapporteur himself has helped to receive deputies in our committee, and that is one of them. representatives of the Danish Deaf Society, who explain that the mighty would like to work, but that they have an unemployment rate of 60%. What happens in this country is that when you've been unemployed long enough, you end up in cash. These are the people who are affected by precisely this reform without having had any chance to work their way out of it because there is no labour market for them. Does the rapporteur not think that we should really help the sick before taking the cash benefits from them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214908	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315214911	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen asks a little different things, which are still about the same thing. Of course, if you are either so ill or disabled that you cannot take an ordinary job, you should not be in the cash benefits system. However, I am also aware, of course, that the Socialists have introduced early retirement and flexible job reform, in which the demands for early retirement have been tightened up. This has meant, unfortunately, that there are some people with disabilities who have been squeezed into this system. We are aware of this in the Danish People's Party and, as I heard earlier from the Social Democrats' rapporteur here from the platform, the Social Democrats were also aware that a great roar had been made in this area. But we are now starting to rectify this, and I hope that the Socialists will also contribute to this, so that it is cleaned up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215014	In fact, it seems that the rapporteur does not understand at all what this is all about. When you go out and talk to the people who are on cash aid, it is true that you hear that some of them are temporary, but that there are also plenty, thousands of people who are it lasting. Does the Danish People's Party have no eye at all for this situation? That's what this is all about. When the sick people land on cash aid and go on it for years and cannot take it because there is no such thing as here but cannot get
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215053	Well, employment is growing and the number of flex jobs is also increasing, and that is really, really positive, so there are actually jobs to get, also in relation to what is called the inclusive labour market. It is positive, and I wish that instead of being so negative, the jahat was put on. I would say that the ceiling on cash benefits is a good old-fashioned social democratic policy. It is evidently a role that we in the Danish People's Party have taken over, because it will certainly not be recognised by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215123	Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215131	Like arrogance from Parliament's platform, I think there is a long way to go. Here we have a rapporteur who himself pulls $50,000. a month home plus 5,000 kroner. tax-free plus Denmark's most lucrative pension plus a remuneration from the city council, who stands and tells people, as society has said, cannot work • sick and disabled people who cannot work • that they have to get their act together and that they have to take a job and that financial incentives are what make the difference for them. Honestly, I would say to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, I think Mrs Marlene Harpsøe should be very pleased that there is going to be a ball with the royals on TV and not television from the Folketing. For what the Danish People's Party is showing here is really rude to people who are sick and have a disability. And I wish there were more that came with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215222	I would like Mrs Stine Brix to take more time to read the bill in relation to what it is actually about. It would suit any member of parliament before entering this debate. Because this is all about the fact that if you can't work, you shouldn't be hit by these rules either, because you shouldn't be on cash benefits if you can't work, you shouldn't be on cash benefits. And I would like to repeat that over and over again. So it has nothing to do with arrogance. It's kind of just a reproduction of the rules we're reintroducing with L 113.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215305	After all, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe is saying something that is a direct lie, because you are becoming and I understand that the Employment Committee has even had the appearance of people who have told about their situation. So I have no doubt as to whether the rapporteur himself has read the bill to which she refers. Because you stay And then I know that the Danish People's Party thinks you shouldn't be hit, but you do. And the Danish People's Party has had every opportunity to solve that problem, because you have laid down flat. You've even helped tighten up this bill so that those people get hit instead of doing something to trade with the government to solve the problem that people who are sick or disabled are also part of this bill. Once again, I think we should be glad that there will be a ball with the royals on television.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215356	I really don't see what a prom at the Queen's should have to do with this bill. It's all over the place. As far as cash benefits are concerned, regardless of whether you have been assessed as a job preparation or an activity preparation, cash benefits are, overall, a temporary benefit. And I think it is very good that we have a social safety net in Denmark that protects the weakest in our society to such an extent that, at some point in time, if you are outside the labour market and cannot support yourself, you can be picked up and get the economy needed to maintain a basis of existence until you can be self-supporting again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215437	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215445	Okay, then the country's deaf and blind jahats will put on, and there's supposed to be a lot of work to get out there. I think that's a pretty wild message to come with. Well, I wish it were that it would be amazing that you just had to wear a jahat, and then there was plenty of work to get. So, there was about 60% unemployment among the deaf in Denmark. Then it is said in this Chamber that they should not be on cash aid at all. We are actually talking about people who have a working capacity, they want a job, but our labour market is not inclusive enough to include them. That is what they have been visiting and saying in committee. Is the message to the deaf from the Danish People's Party, as I hear it? I can hardly believe it: Well, now we are cutting you in performance, and then you have to put on the jahat, and then there is plenty of work to get? Is that what the Danish People's Party has to say to the sick and disabled, who have a working capacity and who want to work, but who at the moment. can't get into the labour market... that they just have to wear the jahat?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215545	This is the case, and it is often the case with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil that she is trying to distort the words that are spoken here from the parliamentary platform, and this is also the case with this. What I have referred to is the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of issues. on behalf of the Socialist Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament should adopt this bill because it is good old-fashioned social democratic policy that those who can work should work. That is also what the Social Democrat rapporteur has said here from the platform today. Then I am well aware that there is a group of people with disabilities, for example. people who are deaf, who are outside the labour market and can also fall into the cash benefits system. But I actually thought that we had a common understanding that if it's that you have some kind of resource, then you have to look at people's personal resources rather than just say: OK, you have a disability, you can't hear, but that's why you have to look at early retirement. Is that what the Socialists want? Because that is a little what I hear, that is to say, you just want to exempt anyone who may have a disability or is simply deaf, and then say that they have to go to the early retirement system. At least I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215702	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215705	No, we simply need decent living conditions in our book, and we also need to be helped as close as possible to the labour market. I could understand that it was the Social Democrats who should wear the yeshat, but then I would like to ask what the deaf should do. Then what are they gonna do? They're the ones who get cut in benefits. They are in the cash benefits system because they are available for the labour market. They want a job. There's no work to be done. So what are they gonna do? We are wandering around in all sorts of things: incentive one, and incentive the other. They want a job, but they can't get it. The Danish People's Party's response to the people is to take money from them every month to give them an additional incentive to take the work they already want. Hello man ax handle!
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215751	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215755	How do you do, man? No, my name isn't ax shaft, nor is it a man. My name is Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe. In any case, that is the way in which the rapporteur should address you. I would like to say again that I had a belief that people actually thought that if people have some kind of resource, they should look at those resources and not just put people into different disability groups. I am well aware that for deaf people there can be a particular challenge in finding a job because there are some prejudices, but since when have we been able to legislate out of prejudice? I know they're there, but then let's work on them. Let us treat them with those companies that would really like to accept the people who have the qualifications that companies need, whether or not they have a disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215844	The next is Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215853	Thank you. Now, on several occasions, we have heard Mrs Marlene Harpsøe say that those who can work must work. In the Social Democratic Party, we also want more people to work. We just don't think that the way forward is to hunt people from house to home. I would like a concrete answer from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe: is it correct, as the Ministry of Employment has stated, that 77 per cent of the population are employed in this sector? of the people who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are not ready for work because, for example, they are ill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215928	It is true that, within the concept of cash benefits, those who are on cash benefits are divided into a category that is ready for work and into a category that is ready for activity. Now I do not exactly remember the percentage in the head, but I assume that exactly the figure that Mrs Pernille Schnoor is saying is correct. I have that confidence in Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315215954	Is it true that there is actually 77 per cent? of the people who are hit, who cannot take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220013	Now it is the case that if you are on cash benefits, it is a temporary benefit because the job centre has estimated that you need this benefit for a temporary period of time. It is true, then, that you may well have a disease, a mental illness or the like, but on the long stretch it should not have the meaning that you cannot in the long run get into ordinary employment, because that is what the municipality has decided that you can do in the long term. Then I would like to say that if it is that you are in the situation of having a mental illness or a physical illness and cannot work at all, you should not be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220051	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220056	Thank you. I would like to remind the rapporteur that the other day she scolded some colleagues for wanting to interpret. I think she's gonna have to watch the TV recording here after we finish the meeting, and then be a little self-critical. That's a really good thing. I have read the proposal twice and three times. And it can use a lot of myths about how big the cash aid is to legalize its proposal. We've gotten that figured out. DF uses a lot of myths about what salary in Denmark is. We have not yet been told that, but I can tell the rapporteur that agreements in Denmark give more than the minimum wage, and I do not understand why everyone on cash benefits without a pension, without all the other things that are in agreements, should absolutely be compared with people on minimum wage. Many, yes, virtually all, have a desire to support themselves and theirs and often go to work without any profit. I have 40 years of experience, I don't know if it's okay to use it. I've seen people go to work without getting any of it. Why do we have to hear all these myths in order to implement the most cynical policy we have put on the table while I have been sitting in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220213	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220216	I agree that, fortunately, the vast majority are too far, that they really want to support themselves and their families and that they really want a job where they can do just that. But I would also just like to see a little sense of reality in relation to the statistics that we can see have been pulled out. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If we look at the group of spouses in which both parties are on cash benefits, there is in fact 84 per cent who have a non-Western origin. I just wish you had a little more sense of reality in relation to this area, even when we have just seen a couple of documentary broadcasts on TV 2 in the best time on this particular issue, where there is imams and counseling women not to take a job, that it is much better to go home on public support, because then they should not worry that they can work with men and do not get into contact with pork either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220319	I would just like to say that all those I have met with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish would also like to support themselves, I can say that also with 40 years of experience, and also after the old wave of immigration that we had. Unemployed persons are pr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. The government is trying to hetze against the unemployed in powerlessness that it cannot ensure that there is work for everyone. If there was work for everyone, you'd see that people went to work. We know this from the good times, and that is why I think it is so cynical and cold to hetze against the unemployed when you cannot create a society where there is work for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220400	After all, it is a clear Communist-Socialist view that there must be work for everyone. There will never be a hundred percent, but it is clear that there are very many job openings in Denmark. We have among other things. a growth that has a plus of 5,000 a month, that's positive. And then, compared to this, there are also people of ethnic origin other than Danish who want to work: that's quite right, and it's really, really good. I personally know several people who work and earn their wages every day so that they can support themselves and their families. That's really, really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220435	The last person who has asked for a brief comment in this instance is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220442	Thank you. We have mentioned several times in the debate here that unemployment among the deaf was 60%. How many of them do you think the Danish People's Party is helping with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220500	Well, I am well aware that there is a particular problem with deaf people who are unemployed and who would like to enter the labour market. And it is, as the questioner is probably also well aware, because there are some employers who have some prejudice over hiring someone who is deaf. It is clear that these are some prejudices that we must put an end to, but can we legislate out of them? No, we can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220533	Okay, we can't legislate out of it, I kind of agree with the questioner. Ergo, this legislation doesn't help a single one of them. On the other hand, it puts all of them in cash aid. Does the Danish People's Party think that's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220552	But I do not think that anyone should be excluded from the labour market at all, who can work who has a working capacity. That is also why we say that you can be disabled and have a working capacity, although I am aware that there may be some people out there who get a different picture. Some may get the impression that a disabled person can only be a person sitting in a wheelchair and having reduced mobility from the shoulder down. Of course, it is not some people that we are in any way forcing into work or that will be affected by this ceiling on cash benefits. But there is a very big difference between being disabled. In fact, I do not think we should look at deaf people as people to whom we should in any way create isolation by saying that they have this disability and should therefore not be regarded as equal compared to all kinds of others in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220654	Then we thank Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315220711	Thank you for that and thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this query debate. The questioners would like to know what the consequences of the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are. In any case, it can be seen that the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased in recent years, so that today there is 20%. more on the allowance than in 2011, and the number of married couples on cash benefits has increased by 50% over the same period, so we have a challenge. This is because the benefit of working too often is too low, and it is a development that we in the Left cannot and will not turn a blind eye to. We therefore need to get our hands out of our pockets, and with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, more Danes get a financial gain by working. As it is today, we must just be true that for some people it is just as rewarding to be on cash aid as it is to be in active employment, and we must do away with that. We must ensure that it is always worth taking any job, even at the low end of the pay scale. It must be worthwhile to make an effort, and it is quite unreasonable and untenable that Danes on passive support have something similar to an employee in a shop here at Strøget in Copenhagen who does their job every day. There must, of course, be a balance, so that we ensure that the right incentives are there for unemployed Danes to prefer a job rather than to be on passive support, but at the same time we must maintain our good financial safety net so that those who are involuntarily and unfortunately without work have financial security without it becoming a straitjacket to get back to work. But the cash benefits are intended to be temporary benefits. This needs to be emphasised very clearly, which is why it is also untenable that more people are on the service for decades. This is both unacceptable for the individual, but also very much in relation to the development of Denmark and to the social heritage. It is healthy for us to work, and that is why we must ensure that we have a system in which as many as possible become part of the working community, where the individual has something to stand up for in the morning. We are of the opinion that with the modern ceiling on cash benefits the balance has been found. Having said that, we are of course also responsive when the Municipality of Landsforening and Danske Handicaporganisations etc. warns against the risk that people who are referred to a special dwelling may not be able to pay their rent. These people should not get into trouble as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits, which is why we have tabled our amendments and the discussion on them today that they should be exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits. When the questioners want to know more about the consequences of the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits, I can say that this is, among other things, the case. means that a family on cash benefits with three children in the future has about DKK 15,000. back after tax and housing expenses. I really think this is a reasonable and reasonable amount of available money, which means that there should still be room for them to participate in birthdays, leisure activities and so on in the families of children. Of course, it takes priority when both parents are on cash benefits. We do not get around that, but I have to point out again that it should be a temporary situation where both parents are on cash benefits. With the government's cash aid ceiling and the agreement with the other blue parties, we ensure an economic incentive to take a job and, at the same time, we ensure a fair and sensible financial safety net if you are going to lose your job. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that, unfortunately, they were not able to take part in today's debate on the question, but that they also support the proposal for adoption which I will be reading in a moment and which has been tabled by the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Left. Proposal for adoption: The Danish Parliament notes that the government is working to ensure that fewer people receive public support and more enter employment, and that there is a fair balance between the level of remuneration and the financial incentive to work, that the municipalities have a duty to ensure that the citizens receive the right help and that municipalities systematically follow up through rehabilitation teams on whether a citizen should be visited for example. a resource cycle or flexible job, that the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party will ensure that special support and housing support for people with reduced mobility and 24-hour care in special housing, as well as for persons with a mental or physical disability who have searched and assigned a special accommodation, are exempted from the cash benefits ceiling and that persons with such a limited working capacity that the municipality considers that they cannot obtain an employment of 225 hours within a year in the ordinary labour market are exempted from the 225-hour rule. V 33). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221300	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. It gave rise to a number of brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221308	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur believes that it is right and proper for the many people who are going to work today to do so, for example. Takes 36,000 kroner. from a single mother with two children. That's about. one third of the family's available amount taken from them. That is right and proper in the interests of the many people who are going to work today. Can the rapporteur not explain to me how reasonable it is to the people who are going to work today? They get richer by taking 36,000 kroner. From the single mother? Do they get more available to themselves for that reason? What is this fair and reasonable thing? Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221356	We in the Left believe that there must be a tangible gain by taking on a job, that is to say, going from cash aid to having a job, and also a job which, for example, is paid to 17,700 DKK. We believe that there must be reasonableness in the way in which this society is organised, and I think that, overall, we are all best served by that, in other words, there is an incentive to make a difference. We stand by the fact that if, as a single parent with two children, you get cash benefits and have about 10,000 kroner. and a little more, when both the home and the tax are paid, then it is a reasonable amount of available money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221445	I would just like to try again: how does it help the low-paid person because there has to be some help for the low-paid person, since the rapporteur thinks it is right and reasonable to take 36,000 kroner. From the single mother with two children? What kind of help is that for the low-paid? And what help is it to the low-paid if the low-paid is now a single mother with two children who go and get unemployed and lose 36,000 kroner. A year because of those rules? What is the legal and reasonable thing for those who go to work every day by introducing such a bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221528	I think most people will agree with me that it must pay to work, that there must be reasonableness in the way we have organised this society. I also believe that people who are at work today share that view with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221543	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221546	Thank you. Well, you can say a lot, but after all, the Left has no hidden motives in this discussion. The Left says loud and clear what it is about: it must be worthwhile to work. What I'm thinking is that when we had government power, we chose to use some other levers than to put down the benefits. And we also created a situation where it pays to work, for the vast majority of cash benefits recipients have DKK 2,000. of taking even a low-wage job. It was some other handles. But the Left, as a government, has chosen to reduce benefits instead. What is the problem here is that we experience, as we discussed with the Danish People's Party before, that there are a number of people who, although they want to work and can work well, cannot get a job because, for example, they cannot get a job. are deaf. After all, we have been listening to them in the Employment Committee when they were in the deputy when dealing with the bill here. When I asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party what she thought about that matter, she said that they should wear the jahat. What is the Left's answer to the deaf who want to work but who cannot get a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221704	I believe that the Danish People's Party, like the Left, is concerned that if you can work and are on cash assistance, you must be helped to get a job, and you also have a responsibility to apply for a job. I therefore agree that too many people today are on cash aid and that we must make a special effort to help them in work. And we can do much better than that. Unfortunately, we have seen that in recent years the number of people on cash benefits has increased. Surely we should have reversed that trend. We need to do something to help people in work and we can do much better, including people who today have a disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221747	Well, that's nicely constructive. If the government here chooses to say that now... no, let me put it another way: we, both the Left and the Social Democrats, have together made reforms in the past, including some where we have been accused by all sorts of others that it is also terrible and that there are cuts and so on, but they all go on at least two legs. It may be that with one hand some incentives are given to people to go on training or finding work or whatever, but that with the other hand some tools are also given to the individual and to the municipalities, for example, so that they can start helping people further. The government just forgot about that in this situation. That's just the whip. So what does the Left think it takes, and when does the other part come here, because it is missing? That is what needs to be done, for example. The deaf in getting to work, as they would like, are missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221842	Well then, I look forward to discussing in the coming parliamentary year how we can get more people moved from cash benefits into jobs, too, people who today have a disability and where it has proved difficult, but not impossible. But I totally agree that we need to move people. We have to do that, and we can do much better. We need to support the work the municipalities are already doing, and we also need to get more companies to join in and take greater social responsibility. I very much agree with that. But that does not change the fact that we think that there should be a financial gain by taking a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221920	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221924	Thank you. In consultation with the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Social Affairs said: let us take the deaf, those who can work, those who want to, those who are ready and ready for work. Of them, the Minister for Social Affairs said that the reason they are not in work is because there are some prejudices out there. So I ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that taking money away from them removes these prejudices?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315221951	I don't think that's gonna happen right away. There must still be an economic incentive, and that is what we are establishing with the ceiling on cash benefits. But then we have a joint responsibility to influence and try to create a more inclusive labour market. We have a great responsibility to ensure that, if you have a working capacity but at the same time have a disability, you have to go out and help with a job. I think we can do that, and I think we should have the ambition. Because it's gone the wrong way, unfortunately. That's what we heard. It's gone the wrong way. We have received more people on cash benefits, including more people who have some kind of disability. We need to reverse this trend.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222035	So the rapporteur believes that if you give a deaf person a financial incentive to get started even though the deaf person has no opportunity to manage it himself, the deaf person will get started anyway. Is that what I hear the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222052	We basically believe that there must be a difference between being on cash benefits and taking a job, including a job in the lowest pay category, regardless of how inclusive the labour market is, whether someone is prejudiced or not. Then we then have a task, no doubt about it, in bringing more people from public support to work. I hope that the Socialists will also be involved in this. At least we want to make a difference there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222126	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222133	It must pay to work, even for those who have a low - wage job. But you'll always be able to find a small group for whom it's not worth working. That's how it's always gonna be. You will always be able to compare with a part-time group; you will always be able to compare with one who works only 20 hours a week. But what you're doing is punishing everyone you're doing is punishing all those employees who risk ending up on cash benefits. Because you're gonna solve this tiny problem, you're gonna make 30,000 Danes poorer, and then you're gonna hit over 36,000 kids who're gonna get hit by this cash aid reform. Is it a reasonable price to pay, because perhaps with your imaginative calculations you can find a tiny group that has three children and a special rent, and compares it to a group on the labour market that gets 17,700 DKK.? And as the people we have in the Chamber who have dealt with the labour market in trade unions and elsewhere say: there is virtually no such group because the 17,700 is a minimum wage. However, the agreement covers almost always other allowances, pensions, holiday allowances. These are fictional groups you're comparing. For the vast majority of Danes there is a huge fall when they go from work to unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222316	I still think we have a massive challenge when we see today that if you are a single parent with three children and take a low-wage job, you have approx. 30 kroner. That's the amount we want to increase. Our proposal ensures that you have approx. 200 kroner. out of it every day. We just disagree with the Enhedslisten about that. We believe that the economic gain must be there and it must be noticeable. After all, we are preoccupied with and would like to see it be true that some people, once they enter the labour market and are part of the working community, move up in pay categories and up the wage ladder, and that's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222410	It sounds like in Denmark you can choose not to have a job. You can't. In order to receive cash benefits at all, you must be available for the labour market. And by the way, there are so many other advantages to getting a job: you can, for example. own a car, you can own a colonial garden house, you can own a residence. You avoid all the limitations imposed on cash benefits recipients. In fact, I think that a lot of people inside this Parliament would benefit from trying to spend just a few months on cash benefits and experience the life that it is, the mistrust that you encounter in the system, the conditions that are being imposed, the demands you meet. In fact, I do not think that one would stand up here and speak as one does about the people who are affected by unemployment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222454	I am absolutely convinced that most of those who are on cash benefits also want a job. They're ready, too. But when we ask and also see in the statistics that a quarter of the jobs are really not available for the labour market, then we simply have to take stock of it. We would then like there to be a difference in moving from cash to the labour market, but the Enhedslisten does not want that difference, and there we have so basically disagreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222527	The next brief remark comes from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222533	I'm thinking that now, sir. Hans Andersen attaches so much of his arguments to increasing the financial incentives to get to work, even if it does not annoy the rapporteur that the effect is virtually impossible to measure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222550	The effect is that 700 changes the cash benefits. When you calculate it according to the Ministry of Finance's calculator, there are 700 people who change cash benefits for a job. That's good. That's really positive. Now they can also be role models for their children and get out of cash aid, because we have seen that historically the number of people on cash benefits has increased over the last 3-4 years. We must, of course, reverse this trend, and we can then start with the ceiling on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222626	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm gonna have to say to sir. Hans Andersen, with the most optimistic figures 650 people are involved. So it is virtually not registerable in relation to the number of people you go and bother with. It must be a pity if we are now building our argument on the fact that economic incentives should make people look for work, that we now agree that the effect is virtually absent. I would also like to say that, now that a rapporteur on the Left is showing interest in the low-paid, there is reason to pay attention. And then I'd like to ask Mr. Hans Andersen, if the rapporteur does not recognise the mechanism, that if we reduce these social benefits over time, it will also mean pressure on minimum wages, so that they will also be reduced. So the person who claimed care for the low-paid can quickly be changed to push the low-paid into pay over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222715	If the rapporteur takes a historical look at that exact assertion, it must be said that that is not what has happened. I don't think that's gonna happen either. I am quite sure that the social partners will again negotiate wages and that it will rise again, regardless of what the cash benefits are. So I actually think that it will continue to mean that wages in Denmark and also real wages will in fact continue to increase regardless of what the cash benefits are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222747	The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222750	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether he can confirm that with the introduction of the government's ceiling on cash aid, there will now be families with children in Denmark living below the poverty limit set by the previous government with a committee of experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222813	I do not believe that the ceiling on cash benefits leads to families becoming poor or cannot afford to participate in leisure activities, for example. Go to football. I simply do not recognise the premise of being poor in Denmark. In my view, the ceiling on cash benefits does not bring families into poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222849	It was a factual question that I asked the rapporteur and which can be answered quite factually. Because I am not so concerned about what the rapporteur sees. In fact, a poverty limit was defined by the previous government and the rapporteur can think of what the rapporteur wants. However, what I am asking the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur recognises that, with the introduction of a ceiling on cash benefits by the government, there are families with children who will live below that poverty limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222920	I reply that I do not think this is a relevant discussion, because we do not believe that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule lead to people being brought into poverty in Denmark. We continue to believe that there is a reasonable level of support, even when you are covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, even when you are covered by the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222950	The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315222954	Thank you. In BL, Denmark's General Housing, the consultation answer says that a total of approx. 14,000 families must be judged to be very difficult to maintain their present housing. I would like to hear: does the rapporteur disagree with Denmark's General Housing that there is a link between particularly low benefits and the number of postponements?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223021	I do not believe that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule in isolation will cause people to be evicted from their apartment. There are a large number of studies that show that there are many conditions that can cause people to be evicted from their homes. And that is what we need to take care of; we need to help people so that they are not put in that situation and there is a task for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223056	It is estimated that 34 500 children will be affected by this proposal, so I would just like to know if the rapporteur can give a guarantee that these children will not be forced from house and home, i.e. that their families will be exposed from their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223115	I think we should be very careful about granting guarantees. I think the rapporteur and the Socialists have also perhaps learned more about that. I say that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule do not, in my view, lead to any further postponements in isolation. One can be exposed from one's home for many different reasons. It may be that one is not able to manage one's economy, that one gets sick for a period or, by the way, cannot understand one's situation, but the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule should not lead, in isolation, to further delays.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223157	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen from the Left, there are no more brief remarks. And the next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223233	Thank you so much. Thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this debate once again. This must gradually be one of the most discussed legislative proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly at least for a long time. I think this debate is marked by the fact that one does not really have a look at the big picture, namely that Denmark is enormously challenged. We have the prospect of very low economic growth, and the whole foundation for our prosperity, the whole foundation for us to have a high level of safety in Denmark, is, of course, that we are an economically rich country. We've had very low economic growth over the last 20 years... the fourth lowest economic growth in the OECD... and that's why this bill is one of hopefully very, very many bills that can help Denmark to be a rich country in the future too. Denmark has not become a rich country to have high transfers and many on transfers. We have spent a great deal of our wealth paying very high transfers. This is what we have done with the very best intentions that no human being, even in the shortest period of their lives, must suffer great financial deprivation. But it is not free, because what we have got is also a model in which very, very many Danes and also immigrants from third countries find it extremely difficult to enter the Danish labour market and become self-supporting. And I actually think that is an expression of the fact that the model we have is also socially harsh. I do not think it is particularly sympathetic that what is offered to people is just a big check. There must be a balance between, on the one hand, a safety net and, on the other hand, there are some incentives to be in employment. In other words, it cannot be the case that one day we pay tribute to the Danish labour market model and say that pay and working conditions are something that is agreed between the social partners, and the next day we say that it may well be that a wage has been agreed, but that you can get as much on cash benefits. That is simply not sensible. A look at society also illustrates that the model we have is not sustainable. It no longer creates the wealth that is a prerequisite for us, our children, to have the standard of living that citizens of other countries will have, citizens living in countries where there is no one claiming that this ceiling on cash benefits solves all the problems that it does not. It is a small contribution, but it should be one contribution out of many contributions that can help to create a better balance between having a safety net that holds hands under people, but at the same time also to make sure that it does not become a network that catches people in, who would otherwise have been in employment with the opportunities it now provides in the dynamic labour market that we have in Denmark, where people really are increasing very, very quickly in wages once they get in. So that's how we see this bill, that is to say as a sensible step in the right direction... a small adjustment of the cash aid and, hopefully, if it comes to us, just one of many reforms to ensure that Denmark once again becomes a high-growth country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223653	Thank you. We have a few brief comments to make, and first it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223658	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur says it is a small adjustment. I would just like to ask the rapporteur how much additional cash aid will have to be reduced beyond what is happening in this draft law, so that Denmark can once again become a growing country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223722	I think, of course, that the starting point for setting up a transfer income system should at least be such as to take account of the salaries that have been agreed on in the labour market. When you also have different benefits to take into account, such as the fact that it has to pay to join an unemployment insurance fund, it can't be too many on cash benefits because the benefit they receive on cash benefits is as high as the one they will get by being on cash benefits. I think that you should start from the knowledge we have about what, like, affects employment. And by looking at those groups in society that have a high level of compensation, that is, those groups that get a little bit of work and which have a level of compensation of over 80%, we can only see that the employment rate for that group is falling significantly. Therefore, I think that a good starting point should be that no transfer income should have a level of compensation of over 80%.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223834	That's kind of abstract talk. Well, I was just starting from the rapporteur's saying that this is a small, sensible adjustment of cash aid. However, the rapporteur pointed to a major problem, namely that Denmark is not a growth country and all that. So I just ask: how much further does the cash aid need to be reduced so that Denmark can once again become a growing country? The rapporteur must have some opinion on this. Apart from that, I cannot come up here again. I would like to say that I am glad that, unlike so many others, the rapporteur recognises the link between the lowest social benefit and the minimum wage. But can't we get an answer to that? How much further does the cash aid need to be reduced so that Denmark can once again become a growing country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223921	Now you can put concrete crowns and ears on, but my starting point and what is important is that there is an interaction between the different family types that are and what benefits they gain from being in work. So I think you should have no more than 70% on cash benefits. of what you could get if you were at work, and if you were on unemployment benefit, no more than 80%. Because as soon as you get over 80%, we can only see that the employment rate is falling. I think that would be a good starting point for setting up a transfer income system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315223958	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224000	Now I know that the rapporteur does not recognise that the Scandinavian welfare model, with a fairly small inequality, is the best society to operate in. So I am not going to discuss this with the rapporteur again. We'll never agree on that, but you can just read about it in the books. Mrs Marlene Harpsøe of the Danish People's Party said just now that it was a particularly socialist idea that a society wanted to work for everyone. I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur agree that it is such a special socialist way of thinking that we should strive for work for everyone in a society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224038	I always feel that when you open up with a question you say you don't want an answer, I can hardly help answering it. It is absolutely true that Denmark is one of the best places in the world to operate. We have relatively good business regulation, and that is also why we are a rich country. That is what is important to hold on to. We are actually an open and free economy, and that is what is the source of our prosperity. What is dragging down in Denmark is that we have such a large proportion of the population who are not in work. It is dragging down, and so it is dragging down so much that the good business regulation that we have cannot compensate for it, so that we still stand to have very low growth in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224126	It wasn't much of an answer I got out of it. So I would like to ask once again: if we have such good conditions for growth and if we have some unemployed, what is the reason why the labour market is not available for the unemployed but for the unemployed to be available for the labour market? I do not recognise, however, that people do not want to work, that they do not want to work. We've had it up before. That is why I ask: when do liberals start to consider whether it was perhaps also an idea to pursue a policy so that there were jobs for everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224205	But we certainly do. We in the Liberal Alliance have presented a plan that will increase employment by 124 000 people. It is the case that when one discusses with Enhedslisten, which I completely recognise is made up of very articulate people, what they say is, just often really, really nonsense. You know, if you guys said it for a social studies degree in high school, you'd fail. You make it sound like there's a certain number of jobs in an economy. Where's the work? You ask. This is not one of the reforms that creates jobs now and here. This is a reform that increases employment in the long term, so that at any time, whether it goes up or down in the economy, several Danes are in work. It is a structural reform. And such reforms are, in fact, the most important ones. They are the ones that enable us, over time, to have a society in which prosperity increases over the next parliamentary term, which in turn is the prerequisite for taking care of those who need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224319	The last thing I have on the list for a brief comment is Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224322	It is not so long ago that Berlingske Business's panel of economists had to deal with who had the most realistic economic policy. I can then reveal that the Enhedslisten, in the eyes of the economists, was firmly placed above the Liberal Alliance. And when I hear what is being said here from the platform, the picture that Enhedslisten is supposed to be the unenlightened, slightly coincides. When Denmark has low growth, it is said that it is because we have a large proportion of the population who are not in work. Can the rapporteur confirm that Denmark is one of the countries in the world where the largest proportion of the population is in work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224403	I do not know what economists have been asked about the economic policy of Enhedslisten. It has been tried to calculate it in the Ministry of Finance, and it was not possible to do so. It was simply impossible. It is a policy that is not linked and therefore it is not conducted anywhere in the world, and where it has been conducted it has not gone well. It may be that the questioner can give a good example of where Enhedslisten's policy has led to prosperity. I can't. I'm gonna miss the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224434	I expect that the lack of an answer to the latter was in recognition of the fact that I am right there. The fact that Enhedslisten's policy doesn't work while Liberal Alliance policy works is a bit funny. That's the reverse picture we always hear from the Liberal Alliance. Now, for example, it will be. said that Denmark is a low growth country and has low growth, and that is why we need to implement reforms. But what has been achieved over the last 10 to 20 years? Let me just ask one question: was growth higher or lower in Denmark when we had a marginal tax that was significantly higher than today? Was growth higher or lower in Denmark as we had a significantly higher level of compensation than we have today? That's funny. The reforms that the Labour Market Commission wanted, as all your well-paid economists wanted, have been implemented, and what is the result? Has there been higher growth? No, there's been lower growth. And what do you come to tell us? Now we need more of the same reforms. Well, I hope people can see the comedy in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224530	It is again such an example of an incredible simplification of how an economy works. After all, nobody here claims that lowering the top tax or a cash aid reform will mean that we will have growth rates of 3-4 per cent, but in isolation it is something that is moving in the right direction. After all, there are plenty of things to do about the fact that there is a high level of economic growth. When we had a high level of economic growth in the 1960s, it was precisely an expression of the fact that among other things. It was a huge and far higher increase than any of the reforms that have been carried out over the past many years have given. Did all the people who entered the labour market become unemployed? No, they didn't. Since then, when much of the policy of Enhedslisten was pursued, things went terribly wrong, and eventually it had to be recognised that it was not sustainable unless one wanted to let the country go bankrupt or debt future generations. In the end, however, the Social Democratic Party was too clever for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224634	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224646	This query debate is part of a very long process, where the centre-left has fought against the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. And that is because the government creates so much social poverty in society by putting 30,000 people into cash aid to get 700 jobs. At a conciliation meeting on the ceiling for cash aid here after the second reading today, Leif Lahn Jensen from the Socialist Group said something which impressed me very much and which sums up why we think that the ceiling for cash aid is really so wrong. As stated in the text of the proposal for adoption by the centre-left here today, there are 34 500 children whose parents are put down as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits. Leif Lahn Jensen then calculated how many children would experience their parents getting jobs. His hip shots were about 1,400. Maybe it could be a little more, maybe 2,000. But how can it be said from the government that the ceiling on cash benefits is good for the unemployed and their children if some 2 000 children's parents get jobs and 32 500 children's parents get poorer? Another argument I would like to refute is that those who are in work will be happier for their jobs if the unemployed become poorer. I don't believe Danes are decorated like that. I do not believe that people in low-wage jobs will be happier for their work if the unemployed cannot afford to send their children to child birthday because there is no money for a gift for the birthday child. It is a bit like upgrading first class at DSB by removing the toilets and seats in second grade. This does not make sense, and meaninglessness seems to us to be the key word for the modern ceiling on cash aid. We've heard a lot of examples of this through this long process. Unfortunately, it will probably be adopted the day after tomorrow at the third reading, and that is with the great regret of the alternative. This whole process, however, has strengthened us in one thing, and that is that, with all its compulsion and control, the employment system is totally screwed up. That is why today, at a large Parliament of confidence here at Christiansborg, we have started to look at how we can base our cash assistance system on freedom and trust and motivation instead of freedom and mistrust and coercion. The whole process of the modern ceiling on cash benefits has confirmed us that the cash assistance system must be based on trust rather than coercion. We call it cash assistance without counterclaims.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224935	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315224956	Thank you. I think I have to take up the thread of a debate we had in Parliament earlier today. That is where we debated the benefits of integration. I am aware that I am repeating myself from the previous debate, but it is the same thing that is at stake here, because I quoted the Prime Minister at that time, President of the Left. I assume that the Prime Minister remains in doubt at times when you read the press, but at that time he was not also Prime Minister. It was in the election campaign, and the President of the Left replied in a debate with the then Prime Minister of the Social Democratic Party: you yourself have formulated some poverty limits. You can say that about what you want. I'm never going to pursue a policy that brings children below that limit. I therefore continue to believe that it is quite appropriate to maintain that it was the position of the Left; it was the position of the Left. That was the position of the Left in the election campaign. The Left believed that the Left would never pursue a policy that would bring children below the poverty line defined by the previous government. Now we have a question debate on the reinstatement of the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, which will do just that. That is quite clear. I tried to ask the Left rapporteur about this before, and the answer was that this is not a relevant discussion for the Left. In fact, I think it is quite fair not to think that this is a relevant discussion. It is quite fair to think that this is not where you want to put your strength, that is not what the Left means. I was very concerned about why, in the election campaign, it was thought that the Left would never pursue a policy that would send children below the poverty line that the previous government, of which I was a part, had formulated with expert help. You just gotta say, that didn't last. That's exactly what the Left does and then I just think that the Left should stand by it. I think that is the most important thing for me in this debate. There is no doubt that this is going to affect children. We have also said very clearly that it will make everyday life unfairly much harder for many benefit recipients with children. This will have a number of very inappropriate consequences for children. That is what Save the Children says, says all the children's organisations, says Better Psychiatry, who, in their hearing response to L 113, which is the draft law and the subject of this question debate, warns that it will hit many families, not least the children and particularly children who are already at risk of losing social foothold and living in tight conditions. Research in this area shows that one third of children with mentally ill parents are at risk of having special psychosocial problems later in life. This is one of the things that Better Psychiatry also points out, namely that well-being in the home is precisely a condition for families' financial and housing security and in families include children. I think that's one of the very sad things about this law. This is the basic safety net we have in Denmark. We all want us to get more people into work. In fact, I believe that, even though we have very different views on it, we are concerned that work is one of the most contributing elements to a well-functioning everyday life and to being something for our children. This is the safety net that the government and the Danish People's Party are now cutting a hole in. We in the Radical Left are sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225459	There is one brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225502	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very sharp speech, in which I might just add that you can also have a good life, even if you are cut off from working, for example. as an early retirement worker. As an early retirement worker, you can also contribute to society, not only by paying your tax, but by doing voluntary work to the extent that you can now do it and so on. However, I would like to thank you for your hard speech and, in particular, for the rapporteur reminding us all of today, as did the rapporteur's party leader in the election campaign on the clear promise made by the Prime Minister. I would like to support the rapporteur in pursuing this matter. And thank you for your good cooperation at all in the fight against this miserable bill. Since we are so in agreement with the criticism of it, was it not a good idea for the Radicals to take the rest of the opposition into their hands so far minus the Social Democrats, namely the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, who have clearly stated in our contribution to the report that as soon as we have the opportunity, will we repeal this bill? I would like to know whether the rapporteur will be involved in this and whether the rapporteur does not think that it would light up hope and light in the dark for the many, for example. children's families who are hit so hard by this if we made a clear promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225626	I think sir... Finn Sørensen is well aware of what the Radical Left thinks and thanks for the receipt for it. I also hope that everyone who listens to this debate and listens to the Radical Left when we debate around is fully aware that the Radical Left is opposed to this ceiling because it will give more poor families and bring very few people to work. I think the rapporteur made it quite clear from the platform: you do not choose not to take a job. It's not a choice you can make. When you're on cash benefits, you're available. If you are able to work, you have to work, and this also applies, of course, to cash benefits recipients who have been assessed on the labour market. But that is the big task. We are not so concerned with making a long list of exactly what future legislative proposals should look like. That is the position to be taken here. And I think the rapporteur is well aware that if we had 90 mandates, we would do what we could, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225740	I do not doubt the rapporteur's opposition to that bill. That will be reflected in the vote, it has already done so, and it will be on Friday and thank you for it. But sometimes, in politics, you have to make a clear and clear promise to the electorate before the election campaign starts. It's not a long list I'm asking for. I ask for the rapporteur's assurance that this bill will be repealed again, and then we will be debating what else is going to happen. That is a very modest demand. I think it will raise the hope of the many people who are hit so hard. And here it is, of course, twice obvious, because something is being reinstated, even in a tougher form, which we have together helped to abolish. So what would prevent us from jointly promising these many people that we will correct that as soon as we have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225835	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225837	Well, I very much hope that we will have enough joint mandates to be able to do what the rapporteur here wants. But I don't have 90 mandates now, and when I promise things, it's because I know I can implement it. And in connection with such things, you have to be able to count to 90.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225859	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315225901	I am still astonished that the Radicals are joining the extreme left in this matter. I have always seen the Radicals as an economically responsible party, which was also involved in making reforms that could keep costs down and ensure that working in Denmark was worthwhile. The Radicals have been involved in many reforms in the past, where we have achieved the goal of making it more attractive to work in relation to being on transfer income. I think it was such a very general speech, and I would like to go down in some figures and ask Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen: When a family consisting of a married couple with two children, both parents on cash benefits, receive nearly 22,000 kroner. After tax, is it really such a social disaster as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen makes it sound like? Is it not still quite a nice amount that we are giving here, which does not lead to poverty and the disappearance of the safety net, as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230003	Thank you for recognising that the Radical Left is a wholly responsible party which has just helped drive reform agendas in Denmark. We would like to continue to be. However, we are working on reforms because they are a means of achieving some goals. It is some goals of developing Denmark, creating more social mobility, affording to invest in education and research and the green transition • not to wind up Denmark. We are in favour of reforms that work. The whole thing about a cash aid ceiling is that it doesn't work. It doesn't get any more people into work. It proved it completely throughout under the former VK government. It is very, very few people who get to work because you take benefits from them when it is people who are on cash benefits who are unable to get a job if they do not get other help before. That's what this is all about, which is why it's basic to me to cut a hole in the safety net. I do not need to overdramatise and call anything poverty, but we have defined a poverty limit in the previous government, and it is, of course, about what it means to be below the poverty line in Denmark, and that will be much more families and children coming now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230132	The ceiling on cash benefits achieves three objectives: it gets a little more people into work; it saves some money in the Treasury; we also have to take good care of taxpayers' money; and then it ensures that, from a reasonable point of view, there is a difference between not being in work and having a low-wage job. And now I do not know the details of the poverty line of the previous government, I must admit that, but I cannot understand why a family with two children has DKK 22 000. After tax, really is below a poverty line. Is it really the view of the Radicals that then you are poor in a way that makes it almost reprehensible that you are all the way down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230221	I am sorry to say this, but I think it says a little about the rapporteur's question that he has no idea how the poverty line has been defined. We have high levels of income in Denmark when compared to all sorts of other countries, but we do, of course, because we also have high levels of expenditure. It costs a great deal to have a home in Denmark if you are a family with two or three children. And it is on the basis of these criteria that such a poverty limit is defined. And that means: What can you do in relation to everyone else in Denmark? I think it is quite fair that the rapporteur has some other considerations on this, but these are quite fundamental political differences: do we believe that this will work and that more children will have to live below the poverty line when we also know that it means marginalisation and reproduction of the same conditions? Because we know that from research too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks, yes, sorry, there came one just at the last minute. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230321	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the definition of poverty used by the previous government means that if all Danes had doubled their income tomorrow they could buy twice as many goods as they could yesterday, we would have the same number of poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230344	It is absolutely true that a poverty limit is never constant. It is a relative definition that was made by the experts that we in the previous government set out to define: What do we think economists are basic poverty in Denmark? This is not the same as poverty in Africa or poverty in Syria, and I hope the rapporteur will agree with me that this cannot be defined in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230417	But how much sense does it make identifying a problem, poverty, and saying that we have to put an end to it, and then create a definition of poverty that makes it impossible to solve it? Well, that's absurd. It is absolutely absurd to say that one has a big problem and that one has to measure how big it is, and then one makes a definition that makes that if we all got a hundred times richer and all could drive around Bentleyer then the richest could have ten, and the poorest could have one, then you would go and say: there are many poor in Denmark, and that is a big problem. That's what that definition means. Isn't that to be honest with you?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230501	I think the rapporteur is well aware that if that were where we were, we would have another debate. When we defined a poverty limit in the previous government, it was in order to have a goal of constantly paying close attention to and working for better opportunities for the most disadvantaged, for social mobility to be possible in Denmark, for real and not only on paper to be able to move. It's actually for me core liberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230535	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230545	However, at some point we could just get the right to make some honest announcements about the real reason why conditions have to deteriorate for thousands of people. Is that to get more people in jobs? It is hardly, for even the Ministry's own optimistic figures show no significant effect. Is it to get 500 million? kr., which one can dig down and which one can then after some time this autumn dig up again and use as a bribe to the Liberal Alliance, which they can give to their rich friends so that we can have a financial settlement? Probably. Is it to push down the minimum wage? I'm sure it is, but tell me. Perhaps I also think that the debate in this Chamber has sometimes been a little unfair. It is as if the impression has been given that it is the total opposition, together with virtually all organizations in society, that are against the government and this legislation. But it's not like that. Right must be right. In fact, there is a single organisation that is in favour of this legislation. This is the Danish Employers' Association. They're sitting right now at their headquarters licking their mouths. But maybe it's not really any of these three reasons that are the most important. Perhaps in reality it is just that when citizens who are unable to get a job receive money from the public, they get bourgeois evil in the bodily part that is highest when you pick strawberries. Then I would like to say about the so-called economic incentives here that we can only see that they only work when people are actually able to adapt to new conditions. And if you want to help people move, sometimes giving them a boost can actually help. So if you're able to move, you do it. But if for various reasons you cannot move, you fall. The vast majority of recipients of cash benefits are unable to adapt to economic pressure. It just leads to poverty, apathy, upsetness and isolation. Getting a job isn't just an opportunity for everyone. You can be held by many different chains. If you meet two broad-brought bikers on the sidewalk on such a dark night and they yell to you that you have to move, it's getting away. But if you are not able to move, perhaps because you are paralyzed in your legs or tied on your hands and feet, you are beaten up. It is the same now: there is a blue bully bank on its way to the citizens who are at the bottom of society and on the edge of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230854	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have one brief comment to make, which came at the very last moment, from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230903	I apologise to the President of the late signing. But I'm wondering, sir. Karsten Hønge always has this very crude rhetoric when we talk here in Parliament: it's just bourgeois politics, it's just about giving tax relief to some evil people, and bourgeois people have such generally bad intentions. - Sir... Karsten Hønge at all see some advantages in trying to keep spending a little down in this country and that one is trying to ensure that it pays off to work? Or are we completely blind to the perspectives and motives of the bourgeois side? I mean, if you were going to challenge mr. Karsten Hønge a little, can he even see something positive in this cash aid ceiling, or is it just pure concentrated evil?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315230952	I am quite sad that we have a slightly sore-skinned question over there that thinks the language is coarse. I think the questioner has to live with it. No, I don't think these people who need some money are evil. I think it's just some rich people who could do without it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231011	I will try again because I really think that it is also a very big challenge to try to see things a little from a different point of view than just to come up and hold such a very, very colored speech, where you just focus on the fact that the policy adopted here is probably due to bad intentions. Is Mr. Karsten Hønge is able to see some benefits of such a reform as this one, which gets a little more people into work, which creates a greater difference between being on passive support and being in work, and which saves the Treasury a little money, or does he just think that it is bad intentions on the part of the citizen that lie behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231047	No, now I don't know if Mr. Knox... Rasmus Jarlov just wants to call it bad intentions. I think it is a citizen's intention to push down minimum wages, and that is why we want to push down social benefits, I believe, in fact. I think 500 million people are digging here. kr. down in the woods, which you can then dig up again and give to the Liberal Alliance when they are going to give tax relief to their rich friends in North Zealand sometime in autumn. I don't know if it's evil. It is, I suppose, just a defence of the interests of the privileged in which both the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance find great honour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231120	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go to the last rapporteur in line. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231136	After all, we have had the debate on the ceiling for cash aid a great deal of times in this Chamber already, but of course I would like to explain the Conservatives' position on everything. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of the Left for having greeted me earlier, but fortunately I have come back, so I also have the opportunity to give my opinion here in the Chamber. We believe that this is a good reform. We think it is one of the best reforms that has been made in this parliamentary period so far, and we do so because we are basically a party that is concerned with creating wealth in Denmark. We are concerned that we do not have too many people on passive support. We are also concerned about keeping taxes down, and we are concerned about the moral aspect that lies in the fact that there is a reward for those people who go to work rather than being on passive support. These are the three objectives that will be achieved with this cash aid reform. It is achieved that a little more people are going to work; it is achieved that we save some money; and it is achieved from a reasonable point of view that there is a better relationship between what you have, if you are in work, and what you have, if you are on cash aid. Then we are fully aware that we must, of course, also provide people who are on cash benefits with a decent living basis, and we certainly do so with this ceiling on cash benefits. After all, it is a highly nuanced cash aid ceiling, which has different rates depending on how many children you have and what a family situation you are in. But to take one example, we can take this family with two people on cash benefits who have two children. They want almost 22,000 kroner. after taxes a month. And that is what we think is quite a decent basis for life. Of course, it could always be higher if the money grew on the trees. And, of course, if we had no problems with our labour market, it could be even higher. But we think that this level is perfectly decent. There has been some discussion over the last few days about whether this would mean that some people will have to move, and it may well be that it does. However, there is still the possibility that you can have a dwelling of a good standard. Maybe not the accommodation you had when you worked and had a higher income. It may well be that, if you are on cash aid for a long time, you will have to adjust your expenditure to the income that you have and which will be lower than when you were at work. That can't be changed. It cannot be that we can guarantee that all people can stay. If they go from being in work to being on cash benefits, then it would be natural for them to have to adjust their spending in the longer term. All in all, we think that the parties behind this are doing what is responsible. They address one of Denmark's major problems, namely that we have too low growth, that we have too few people at work, that we have too many people on passive support, and that we spend too much money on it. If you look at abroad, you can also see that the level will continue to be very high in Denmark compared to other countries, and we do not think there is anything to be ashamed of with regard to this ceiling for cash aid. We believe that this is a good reform that makes Denmark richer without compromising that there is still a good social safety net for everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231514	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231519	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to go home and read the Minister's answer to Question No. 63 because the rapporteur will then be able to see that the amount of money available, the rapporteur is standing and mentioning on the platform, is completely in the woods. I shall not tire the House of saying once again what I have already said. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to go home and do his homework. My question to the rapporteur is about that fairly. Can the rapporteur explain to me why a low-paid person who does not get so damn much out of work should feel better if an unemployed person gets worse? What's so amazingly reasonable about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231608	The figure I quoted earlier was from the Ministry of Employment's own website, where you can see that a married couple with two children, both on cash benefits, will have DKK 21,700. After baby. I don't know if there's a need for Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen goes home and does his homework, but unless there's something wrong on the Ministry of Employment's website, what I said before was correct. In fact, we believe that it is essential that there is a difference between what you get when you are on cash benefits and when you go to work. In other words, there are often a number of costs involved in having to go to work. You may need some particular clothes, you may have some transport costs, and sometimes you can also have some other costs, for example. a babysitter or other things you might need because you have a job. It's just weird that Enhedslisten has the attitude that people who work 8 hours a day shouldn't have anything to do with being on cash benefits. I simply do not understand that thinking. I think, from a reasonable point of view, that there should be a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231727	The amount available, mentioned by the rapporteur, is probably that amount because rent has not yet been paid, and that is why it is not a real picture of the amount available. So that is what I would ask the rapporteur to go home and study, but the Minister has answered that, so it is just reading that answer. Listen to me: the low-paid person will not be richer by the fact that the recipient of cash benefits becomes poorer, and especially the low-paid person will not be paid if the low-paid person ends up in the same situation as the recipient of cash benefits, because then the low-paid person will be punished according to the same rules. So what is the reasonableness of that? It doesn't add up at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231811	In other words, if you want to try to correct someone, you need to get your facts straight. It wasn't the amount of availability I was talking about... I was talking about how much you get paid after tax. So I cannot accept such an attempt to rebuke me when Mr. Apparently, Finn Sørensen hasn't listened properly to what I said. After rent, electricity, water and heat, this family will have DKK 14,400. a month. After tax, but before the fixed expenses are paid, the amount is DKK 21,700. I can see that the President is standing up, so unfortunately I will not be able to answer the other. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231850	We thank the rapporteur. Now we have finished the rapporteur's series and I am looking at the Minister for Employment who wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315231904	Thank you. With the ceiling on cash benefits, we put an upper hand over how much you can receive overall in cash benefits, special support and housing support. If the total benefits to the person exceed the ceiling, special support and housing support will be reduced. The ceiling does not mean that the cash benefits themselves are cut. With the ceiling on cash benefits, we ensure that it is better to work full-time, part-time or just a few hours a week. It is common sense that there must be a difference between being on public support and supporting oneself, and this will contribute to fewer people being supported by the public and more people becoming part of the working community. For the majority, this is approx. The total reduction in benefits will be less than DKr 2 000. The average reduction in benefits will be approx. 1,450 kr. per month for persons affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. With the ceiling it will be the case that a typical cash aid couple with three children will continue to have approx. 15,000 kroner. available a month after the tax and rent have been paid, or 406,000 DKK. per year in total public benefits, taking into account the average family type calculations. We in the government would like to be the target of this. The ceiling on cash benefits does not change the rates of the cash benefits system. In other words, citizens continue to receive the same allowance as hitherto. In addition, by working even a few hours a week, the individual citizen will be able to create space below the ceiling to receive again all or part of the special support or housing support to which he or she may have lost his or her right because of the ceiling. At the same time, the parties to the agreement have stressed that cash benefits recipients must be given the right help to return to the labour market. Therefore, municipalities must systematically follow up rehabilitation teams on whether a citizen should be visited for example. a sequence of resources or flex jobs, and if a cash benefit recipient is more permanently unable to work, he shall not be in the cash benefits system at all. Finally, the government will ensure that disabled people with special housing needs are exempted from the ceiling. This relates specifically to specific support and housing support for persons with severe reduced mobility and 24-hour care in special housing, as well as housing support for persons with mental or physical disabilities who are searched for and assigned a special accommodation. The draft law also introduces a requirement that those who can work 225 hours a year to maintain full cash benefits. The 225 hours of employment within 12 months can be achieved with 5-6 hours of work per year. week or approx. A month and a half of full-time employment. The rule is designed to ensure that cash benefits recipients are actually available for the labour market. If a cash benefit recipient, who is deemed to be able to obtain employment equivalent to 225 hours within one year, does not meet the employment requirement, the person will be reduced in the benefit. If an unmarried person fails to meet the employment requirement, the reduction in benefits will be either DKK 500 or DKK 1,000. per month, depending on the rate of cash benefits received by the person concerned. A married couple, where one or both of them do not meet the requirement, could be reduced by an amount equivalent to an adult benefit. I believe that the legislative proposal has struck a fair balance in matters where, on the one hand, we strengthen the economic incentive to work while, on the other hand, we ensure that everyone continues to have a reasonable dependency. Both the ceiling rule and the 225-hour rule contain the necessary exceptions to ensure, for example, that: disabled people who have necessary higher housing costs are not affected inappropriately and those who are currently unable to obtain 225 hours of employment within one year are not reduced in their assistance because of the increased availability requirement. I think it is a good thing that we are now creating an increased incentive to take a job with the capacity that a human being now has and that more people will become part of the working community. I would also like to thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232408	We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232414	Yes, the debate is not quite over yet, but I am grateful for the debate so far. I would say that, as a Social Democrat, I think that the only right way to get these people from cash aid was the cash aid reform we made when we were in government, and I still think it's the right thing to do. I know that the Minister replied to the consultation, but I can only sense that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has not grasped this at all yet, so I have to ask the Minister: the difference between what we did at the time when we cut down on the benefits of these young people or put them on an SU-like training allowance, and what is happening now is that the young people were ready for training but not ready for activity. In other words, the difference between what we did then and what is happening now is that what is happening now also affects the readiness to act. It did what we did back then, didn't it? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232505	It is true that there is that difference, but that does not mean that there are no labour incentives in what we are doing here. It is very much there. However, it is clear that the incentive to work is less for people who have other challenges than lack of work. But here we must be aware that with the other reforms we have and this proposal supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232547	I can hear the Minister say that it is true that the difference between then and now is that young people were ready for training rather than ready for activity. I heard the Minister say that was correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232558	It is quite true that massive reductions were made in cash aid for young people who were ready for training. It is also true that we can now see from the figures that it has had a very positive impact on young people. And I am convinced that, once this proposal has been implemented and phased in, we will also see much greater social mobility and very positive effects of this both in terms of helping those who are now passively placed on cash aid and in terms of more employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232631	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232634	Thank you. I think the Minister knows that I consider the Minister to be a really objective and proper person, so I would now like to ask him, and that is quite unoletical and purely factual: is it not true that there will now be more families falling below the poverty limit defined by the previous government than before the ceiling for cash benefits was introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232705	The question doesn't surprise me. I would say that the poverty threshold to which reference is made is, of course, a poverty limit which, as we have heard earlier in the debate, is, firstly, relative and, secondly, is based on the fact that, for a three-year period, we must have been below certain limits. What is very important to us with regard to the proposal being debated now is that we create more dynamism, both in terms of getting into employment with a few or many hours, and that we can get the support we need, in terms of resources or in other arrangements, and that means that we want to put an end to passive parking on cash aid. With this in mind, our intention is not that people should fall below that poverty line. It then no longer exists, but if we relate to it and respect it as a previously decided poverty limit, it is not our wish that part of this population should fall below that poverty limit. Because we do not want people to remain passively on cash aid for a long period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232826	I really have a great deal of respect for the Minister's intentions, and I also have a great hope that we all have that it will not happen, but is it not true that with the introduction of this ceiling for cash aid there will be more families below the poverty threshold defined by the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232853	Well, that depends on how you make it up. In other words, if it is the case that people continue to remain passive on cash benefits for more than a 3-year period, then it is true that one can well construct oneself to some situations where certain family types in certain situations fall below the threshold to which they are asked. But again: the intention is to break up what has been illustrated very well in recent months, when we have been debating this bill, namely that unfortunately too many people have just been placed in the cash assistance system for years without anyone helping them, and here I hope everyone is aware of the comments we have made in the draft law. We want the municipalities to take their commitment to help these people seriously and we want to measure the municipalities on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232954	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315232957	Thank you. We all want all sorts of things, but here we are dealing with something where everything is not in our hands. It is the municipalities that decide some of the things • whether they will at all exempt people in the situations where they are to be exempted, etc. It is politics we are talking about here. The current Prime Minister has clearly said in the election campaign: you can mean what you want about your poverty limit, but I will never pursue a policy that brings children below the poverty line. It's a promise made in the election campaign. If we can now document that and I have put a question to the Minister on the basis of the article today in Weekly Letter A4 that there are actually children's families falling below the poverty line by virtue of this bill, will the Minister help to comply with the Prime Minister's election promise and change the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233101	We are implementing this bill because we believe it is right to implement it because it will put a very large group of people in a much better situation than they have been in in terms of poverty too in recent years. Because we can see that far too many remain on cash aid for too many years and do not get help as they are entitled to. That is why we want to thin down the amount of cash aid recipients, either through their entering full or partial employment, or through the fact that they come into resource or other schemes that have been set up to provide them with the support they need. We cannot be aware just to look passively at the developments we have seen in recent years. We cannot be aware of this for the sake of their income, for the sake of their situation and for the sake of the situation of their children. What we are doing with this proposal is far more responsible than what has been done in recent years when we look at how the figures have evolved and look at the impact of the social heritage when parents are allowed to remain passively on public support for years without getting into employment or getting help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233223	Yes, thank you, but with all due respect, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And I know the Minister would like to believe it himself, but that is not what I am asking. I ask whether the Minister will take action to honour the election promise made by the current Prime Minister in the election campaign that he would not pursue a policy that sent children below the poverty line of the previous government. If it turns out that this is actually what you are doing, will the Minister ensure that the government's electoral vows are complied with, so that the bill is amended? Well, you can say yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233313	I think I have answered the question in the past. And the previous poverty line was based on the fact that for a long period of time you had to stay below a certain income limit. And I do not think that is what is going to happen with the implementation of this bill. To the question of what we will do if things do not evolve, as our intentions are with the draft law, it is clear from the comments made by the draft law. We call on the municipalities to give the vulnerable citizens the help they are entitled to. It's described. And we will follow the municipalities, and we will measure them by their actions as early as 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233352	We thank the Minister for Employment. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 17 March 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233410	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservative People's Party; a group of 89 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU), Tjóðveldi (T) and Javnaðarflokkurin (JF). The groups have appointed the following members: Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Peter Skaarup (DF), Jacob Jensen (V), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Henrik Sass Larsen (S), Morten Bødskov (S), Pelle Dragsted (EL) and Josephine Fock (ALT) The announcement of who has been chosen according to the group's recommendation will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160315233514	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 16 March 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
