ParlaMint-DK_20160121100100	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Merete Riisager (LA) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 54 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of open tax lists). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100126	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 15 by Martin Henriksen (DF), Dan Jørgensen (S) and Nase Khader (KF). A vote can be taken. In favour 79 (S, DF, V and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 7 (LA). The proposal is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 16 by Jesper Kiel (EL), Ulla Sandbæk (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Jonas Dahl (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100235	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100254	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100320	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100337	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100409	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100421	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100531	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100607	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100630	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100658	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100716	Thank you. We must now second-read the bill, which continues to allow jewelry and values to be taken from refugees and postpone family reunification to three years for a group. The reason why I am standing up now is that, although we are vertically opposed to all the changes that this bill entails, we have put our hopes in the fact that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament who would look at a tiny part of it, namely the fact that today we are still fortunate, and thanks for that, allow asylum seekers to be accommodated privately with family or acquaintances, among other things. because it is cheaper and better for refugees, if they have the opportunity to do so. But it remains the case that unaccompanied minors must remain at the asylum centre for the first six months, even if those children actually have the opportunity to be accommodated privately with an uncle, aunt or other. But that will not be allowed today. Today, it doesn't make any sense if they have an uncle outside who wants to take it. I would hope that there was a majority in the Folketing who could see that this part does not make sense to any of us. You can argue with everything else, but these are children who have come here, they sit at the asylum centre, they have the opportunity to be accommodated privately with family, and we will not allow that. Should we not just take exactly the small amendment in hand and show that some meaning can be found in making it give, including here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100924	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121100938	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 23 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (DF) and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. For the vote 22 (DF), against 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL, Alt, RV and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA, and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Nine, submitted and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10 and No 11, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101303	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101330	The draft law here proposes to strengthen regulatory cooperation...
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101337	I would just like to ask for some silence so that we can hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101341	Thank you. The draft law here proposes to strengthen the judicial cooperation between the judiciary, the social services and the police in relation to the exchange of information on signs of radicalisation and extremism in prisoners in the country's prisons. Let me make it clear that there is no mistake: we must do everything we can to combat the evil and destruction that radicalisation can lead to and, unfortunately, has practically the proposal means that the existing provision of Article 115 of the Code of Procedure will be extended so that the authorities can also exchange information on persons in custody who are deemed to be radicalised or at the risk of becoming so. It is necessary to ensure that this information is exchanged if we are to prevent radicalised hatred from taking off and developing. Therefore, the exchange of information between authorities is necessary and it is necessary to extend the exchange of information. We believe that we should exchange too much information rather than too few, and with this proposal we therefore strengthen the ability of the authorities to share knowledge, and we can support that and we support the proposal here today. And we also support further initiatives to prevent radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101515	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101524	Thank you for that, President. The draft law extends the possibility of cooperation between police, criminal services and social services in order to identify in custody persons on whom radicalisation or an extremist attitude should be a major focus. The desire for extra focus by the authorities on people who, because of a completely twisted world picture, may prove to be a danger to the Danes' safety weighs very heavily on the Danish People's Party. We must make it more difficult to be a potential terrorist, and much more action must be taken as soon as the first signs of radicalisation and extremism appear. One can hope that an early focus on people's extremism can help pull people away from a race that could potentially end up in attacks or help with attacks that could ultimately cost human lives. That is why we in the Danish People's Party can recommend the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101629	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101638	As has already been mentioned, we are today dealing with a legislative proposal aimed at strengthening so-called KSP cooperation in the exchange of information on signs of radicalisation and extremism in prisons. We must fight terrorism, threats from religious radicalised and extremism. And if an inmate shows signs of radicalisation, it is essential that information can be exchanged across the relevant authorities. We saw this very clearly with the terrorist attack in Copenhagen last February. As has also been mentioned in the previous speeches, the KSP cooperation today only includes the transmission of information on convicted persons released. In other words, under the current legislation, the authorities cannot in the same way exchange information when in custody persons are released. The exchange of information between authorities on an inmate shall not depend on whether the inmate has been convicted or is in custody. That is why this draft law provides for the law on the administration of justice to enable the authorities in the KSP cooperation to also exchange information on persons released from custody. And on that basis, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101806	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121101829	The proposal we are discussing here is, of course, described. In the Enhedslisten, we are particularly aware of the need to prevent radicalisation, and we believe that it requires a wide range of initiatives • something that already starts with democracy understanding and social understanding right back in primary school and involvement in the broad community by ensuring that we can pick up all young people so that they are not recruited into radicalised groups. Of course, there must also be action against people who are in prison and we must pay attention to people who are at risk of being radicalised or who have become so, even if they are in prison. And in this respect, of course, it may seem extremely pointless that the legislation today distinguishes between people who serve a proper sentence and people who are in custody, that is to say, who are waiting to be sentenced, but who are still, in principle, innocent. In the Enhedslisten, we are thus critical of the authorities' exchange of personal data when this is done without the consent of the person to whom the data are related. We agree with some of the objections raised in the hearings to this bill, for example. from the Council of Lawyers and the Institute of Human Rights, which points out that there are some imprecise descriptions, both when it comes to the target group for the bill and the efforts that can then be implemented. In fact, we think that the Ministry of Justice, in their consultation note, does in fact make amends in part by extending the description a little where they respond to the hearing response. However, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which actually gives the authorities a rather far-reaching power to exchange information, including personal data, without consent and on the basis of an estimate, that is to say, some kind of consideration as to whether it is good or not and not on the basis of objective criteria. Faced with this, then, is the need to prevent radicalisation and extremism, which, unfortunately, we have also seen can develop into very, very serious and fatal crimes. And in relation to the two considerations that are facing each other, we in the Enhedslist will ask some questions, but we will not reject the proposal. So, as a starting point, we are positive, but with the considerations that must always be considered when there are opposing considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102122	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102136	After Omar el-Hussein's attack on the Krudtunden and the synagogue in Krystalgade, it turned out that in the criminal services he was well known to have undergone Islamist radicalisation. It was noted no less than three times, but unfortunately the information never reached the Police Intelligence Service or other relevant authorities. The interesting thing here is Omar el-Hussein wasn't unique. In fact, he was so little unique that one of my very reliable sources in the sociology world contacted me with a warning that there were many in Danish prisons who looked like Omar el-Hussein. And here it is appropriate to suggest that we are talking about a source which was just in the process of a large empirical analysis of prisoners in Danish prisons. There it is, and this can be said with the support of social research. In other contexts it is called a clear and present danger that more inmates in Danish prisons are radicalized at the risk of Danish citizens in general and Jewish citizens in particular. That is why the Liberal Alliance can support the bill for enhanced KSP cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102303	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102320	The aim of the bill is to strengthen the judicial cooperation between the judiciary, the social services and the police... what we call KSP cooperation... in relation to the exchange of information on signs of radicalisation and extremism. Today, the KSP cooperation covers only the transmission of information with regard to convicted persons who are released. The draft law proposes extending the circle to persons released after detention. Overall, of course, the Alternative supports enhanced protection for the Danes, including strengthening the protection against terrorism. But such strengthening must not be at the expense of citizens' freedoms, international conventions and fundamental democratic values, such as legal certainty. This bill seems to us to contain several problems in this regard. The definition of the category of persons covered by the proposed extension of the KSP cooperation, i.e. those who are radicalised or at risk of being so, is imprecisely described both in the legislative text and in the draft law's observations. With an imprecise wording, we run the risk of citizens being unnecessarily branded as radicalised or extremists, and this concern is expressed, among other things. of the Lawyer Society and the Institute of Human Rights. In addition, we also extend the circle to persons who have only been in custody and have therefore not yet been convicted. But what about the situations in which inmates so later end up being acquitted, or where the charges are completely dropped? They could be innocent citizens. This is also an amendment to the Code of Procedure, an amendment which must be regarded as an exception to the Data Protection Directive's prohibition on the disclosure of information relating, inter alia, to: religious beliefs. This principle can, of course, be waived if sufficient guarantees are provided, as is stated in the directive. The legal community points out that they do not think it is sufficiently defined in the draft law. So what we can fear in the alternative is that the result of the proposed extension of KSP cooperation means that the mere statements, opinions or opinions of a person in custody may give rise to the exchange of information, even though the person in custody is not specifically suspected of committing unlawful acts in the future or has yet been convicted of unlawful acts. The alternative is therefore mainly against the proposal, but looks forward to the work of the committee and that there will be answers in committee to the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102559	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102609	As a starting point, the Radical Left supports closer cooperation within the public administration and the sharing of relevant information that can help to enhance the protection of the security of the Danes against terrorism, as long as the fundamental democratic values, freedoms and international conventions are not undermined. We note that, according to the draft law, the exchange of information must take place for explicit and objective purposes, that subsequent processing must not be incompatible with those purposes, and that the information processed must be relevant, sufficient and not cover more than is required for those purposes. That is why the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102651	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102703	During these years, there are two principles that are a little at odds with each other: on the one hand, the principle that we have an obligation to protect our society and the citizens of that society from violent extremism, assaults, killings, which we have unfortunately seen examples of. We also have another consideration to take, and that is the need for legal certainty, for freedom of religion and for the protection of the freedoms in general, which we value very much, and which we always refer to in toasts, especially when terrible things have happened. That's also why this government bill is complicated, because it's the two considerations that face each other a little bit. And that is why we from the SF are also not ready to prepare our final position today. We need to discuss in more detail some of the objections that have also been raised in the hearings of the Institute for Human Rights and the Lawyer Society, about precisely the definitions, or the missing definitions, and about the consideration of sensitive information. We have problems in Denmark with extremism; we have problems with which we have seen some terrible consequences. On the other hand, we also have problems with the fact that, in order to counter this, we have taken some very important steps in this country in terms of weakening citizens' legal certainty. And we from the SF are very critical of that. So these are the two concerns which are a little colliding and which we would very much like to have a constructive discussion with the Minister for Justice about, i.e. whether we can make the bill a little better, responding to some of the criticisms that have been made, so that hopefully we can all see ourselves in it, also in terms of responding to the criticisms that have been made. So I look forward to the committee reading and also to the further discussion with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102913	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121102924	We must take the threat of terrorism and extremism seriously. I do not think there are many people who believe that the challenges we are facing will be reduced. And that is why I think it makes very good sense for this law to now be extended so that information can be passed on when there is evidence of radicalisation and extremism. I think we simply have to say that the sleep of thorns in this society is over and that we must do everything we can to combat radicalisation and extremism. And I think it would be very strange if we could not pass on this information when we are fighting terrorists and people who are being radicalised. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103012	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Justice Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103023	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the generally positive contributions we have heard here today. There seems to be broad support for the initiatives we have put forward to strengthen the fight against radicalisation in prisons, and I am pleased about that. With the bill, the government intends to strengthen cooperation between the judiciary, the social services and the police, the so-called KSP cooperation, in relation to exchanging information on inmates showing signs of radicalisation. Today, KSP cooperation only covers the transmission of information in the context of action against convicted persons released from prisons. The government believes that it is an important part of the terrorist effort that the authorities share information on any inmate showing signs of radicalisation, whether in court or in custody. That is what the draft law will create better opportunities for, and I must again thank you for the debate, which is important. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103126	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103141	The debate is open, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103158	This bill ensures that criminal services are given better opportunities to place radicalised and extremist prisoners in prisons so that they cannot influence other inmates to take over both extremist attitudes and worst-case actions. Specifically, the provisions of the Penal Code on the location of sentenced persons in the criminal services institutions are amended, and this opens up, among other things, the right to a fair trial. • the possibility of applying sectioning to radicalised and extremist inmates. I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Justice for continuing the important work that was started already under the previous government in this particular area. For when it comes to the hatred and destruction that extremists can cause on our society and when it comes to the indoctrination that can destroy so many lives, we must stand together across the parties of the Folketing and we must ensure that our authorities have the tools necessary to prevent this evil. For me, therefore, it is not about who can be the strongest or the hardest in this area. It is about the fact that we are united on the measures that work, and this bill is an example of this. We in the Socialist Group can support the bill, and I would like to emphasise once again that we also support further measures that can stop radicalised and their spread.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103345	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103357	Thank you. We must make it as difficult as possible to recruit members of terrorist organisations or contribute to terrorist acts while people are in prison. The proposal we are debating now is precisely what we intend to do. By separating violent extremist inmates from inmates, they may have an interest in recruiting as new members to organisations that want to harm Denmark, we are on the right path to avoid new terrorists hatching. If you are able to get away those prisoners who, in a destructive way for society, are trying to get others into a career that can lead to extremism and terror, away from other prisoners who sit in there and are in a vulnerable situation, then many will benefit: the people who would otherwise have been led into extremism, and indeed also Danish society. The combination of gang crime and religious fanaticism, for example, is a deadly cocktail for an open and free society like the Danish one. Around the prisons there is a broad, solid knowledge of the people who are in prison for various reasons. We owe it to Denmark to use whatever knowledge is available to avoid radicalisation and the problems it causes. We believe that the measure here can prove effective. A day when laws can be dealt with that make the problems of religious extremists who may want to radicalise fellow prisoners bigger is a good day. With these comments, I can inform you that the Danish People's Party intends to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103532	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103543	We have just considered L 78, the draft law on the exchange of information on signs of radicalisation and extremism. Now we are dealing first with the bill on the sectioning of radicalized and extremist inmates. In addition to the enhanced cooperation of the authorities set up in L 78, it is essential that at the same time we reduce the ability of radicalised inmates to influence others to carry out these extremist actions. There are major challenges in Danish prisons and detention houses where radicalisation takes place on an alarming scale. This was also the conclusion reached when, in the wake of the terrorist attack in February, a survey was carried out among the trusted people of the Prison League. It is absolutely unacceptable that radicalised inmates in Danish prisons and detention houses recruit fellow prisoners for the extremist environments. Therefore, the purpose of this bill is to give criminal services a better opportunity to place radicalised prisoners in prisons in their own sections so as to minimise their access to fellow prisoners. The bill therefore opens the way for the application of sectioning to radicalised inmates, a practice that we already use when it comes to inmates from the biker environment. By separating radicalised inmates from other inmates, we can, to a much greater extent, solve the growing problem of radicalisation in Danish prisons and fundamentally contribute to the overall response to the threat of religious radicalised and extremism. Against this background, of course, the Left supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103740	Thank you for that, and then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121103750	As the previous proposal, this relates to the fight against extremist and radicalist attitudes, which may ultimately lead to killing or other acts of violence. And that is something we must do our best to stop, not least when it comes to people serving in prisons. Especially because in prison environments there are some problems with people influencing each other in a bad way, and it is clear that serving alongside some who have the same or perhaps even more far-reaching views in extremist thinking can be a problem. It has now been many years since the establishment of access to sections of inmates from and rocker gang environments, i.e. place them on certain departments, either on the grounds that they have to be removed from the other inmates, or on the grounds that they have to be spread as much as possible so that they do not sit together. And what has been the best and most appropriate has varied over the years. It must also be said, however, that with the spread of radicalised extremist attitudes in society and, above all, in prisons, it is natural to examine whether the same means need to be used against highly negative prisoners and whether more funds are also needed for radicalised extremists. I would say that one of the problems, however, is that it is not so easy to define who is then extremist or radicalised. It can also be a problem with people associated with the rocker gang environment, who sometimes wear back marks and therefore may be a little easier to identify, but it can be very, very difficult to define and distinguish. This has also been pointed out by several people in the hearings. We also have freedom of religion in Denmark, and we have agreed to the European Convention on Human Rights, and that is why it naturally provides food for thought when the Institute for Human Rights points out in a hearing answer that this proposal therefore poses a risk of violating the prohibition of discrimination in relation to religious freedom. It also provides food for thought. At least it should be said that the National Association of Municipalities writes that serving far away from family and friends, which the bill may have as a consequence, can damage the rehabilitation and perhaps even contribute to further exclusion from the community and community, which is the strongest counterweight to radicalisation. That is why I have to say that what concerns us most is that it is a legislative proposal which means that there is no right of appeal. We can see that there are some considerations that make it possible to section, but, on the other hand, there is also a risk of this in relation to the rights of the inmate. That is why we find it worrying that there is no right of appeal, and that is precisely not because the decision is taken at the centre of the Directorate and not in the individual welfare areas, and that is why there is simply no appeal body. Having said that, there is much evidence that radicalised and violently glorifying religious extremism is a phenomenon that exists in Danish prisons. It is important that we counter this and try to avoid prisons turning into recruitment bases for violent fanatics. At the same time, we must ensure that they are given the best possible rights, and therefore Enhedslisten will ask some questions, not least with a focus on redress. But as a starting point, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104216	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104229	In the Jyllands-Posten of 9 January, we read the following, and I quote: "The Western countries, including Denmark, are facing a growing problem with crossovers, i.e. young people moving from common criminal environments to militant radicalised groupings. A study by the Danish Institute of International Studies, DIIS, shows that three of the four perpetrators of terrorist acts in the West prior to the terrorist act had committed other, often serious crime. In a strategic perspective, this is an insight which, first of all, is not an immediate cause for doubt and, secondly, suggests that both time and money should be sacrificed to prevent young people from moving into crime at all. With the knowledge of criminology, I have acquired both through my education and a long professional experience, however, I have to be pessimistic. It is a difficult project to completely prevent people from moving into crime and therefore it is something that has very long prospects. In the short term, therefore, it is advisable to prevent extremist and radicalised inmates from spreading their ideology to unenforced souls, thereby increasing the threat to the surrounding society. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104407	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104418	Thank you. This bill aims to prevent radicalisation of inmates in Danish prisons, so as to avoid the development of extremist attitudes with the associated risk of recruitment of other inmates. This must be done by extending the scope of criminal justice to sections and placing radicalised and extremist prisoners in a way that minimises their access to other prisoners for extremist acts. The alternative is positive about the proposal. However, there are certain elements of the proposal that we would like to see clarified. We recognise the efforts to raise the level of protection against terrorism and to protect the legal certainty of the Danes. In addition, we are very concerned that our prisons can function to the highest possible extent as a place for prevention and rehabilitation, where the inmates can build up confidence in the system and their own opportunities to become part of the Danish community. Unfortunately, we know that in prison there is a great deal of criminal exchange of ideas and recruitment between prisoners, and we have a relatively new problem in relation to the so-called crossovers that go from gang environments and further into extremism. We need to focus on radicalisation in prisons, which is important, but we also need to focus on preventive action when they come out on the other side, so that contact is maintained. Resocialization is the best tool we have. We therefore call on the government to strengthen preventive action, both in prisons and outside prisons, as an important part of the solution to the problem of radicalised. The elements of the bill we would like to see clarified are: of course we are experiencing a worrying development in the militant Islamist environment, but it is important that the introduction of these provisions is applied to all prisoners, regardless of the religious or political beliefs underlying the radical or extremist behaviour in question. The draft law contains essential aspects of human rights in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the Prohibition of Discrimination and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. However, both conventions provide for discrimination where there are objective and reasonable grounds for doing so. That is why it is important for the alternative to meet precisely and safely the conditions of objectivity and fairness, and that is why we find it problematic that concepts such as radicalisation and extremism are very vaguely formulated in the legislative proposal. We do not believe that it should be left to the discretion of the individual criminal services staff and the individual institution whether an intense practice of religion such as prayer, fasting or recitation of the Koran can be seen as a radicalisation which can be dangerous in the return of the inmate to society. The examples of radicalisation and extremism mentioned in the comments on the legislative proposal are very wide-ranging. Here the consultation answers speak with one voice as regards the need to find unambiguous definitions. The alternative is largely favourable to the proposal, but would very much like to see clarification of the legislative text and/or clarification of the comments on the legislative proposal so that the assessment of what is considered to be radicalisation and extremism can be made on an objective and reasonable basis. We can, for example, here. Lean on the proposals made by both the Institute of Human Rights, the Council of Lawyers and the Association for Legal Affairs in their response to the hearings, precisely because of the concern about the imprecise definitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104745	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104757	We very much agree that in Danish prisons there may be a risk of recruiting inmates for violent and extremist environments. That is why we must do everything we can to prevent radicalisation and extremism, and that is why the proposed system of sectioning can, in my opinion, be an effective and workable means. We also recognise the need for central coordination of the location of radicalised and extremist inmates in order to ensure an appropriate distribution and distribution of these inmates into different institutions and departments. And because the proposed provisions are intended to prevent the influence of co-entities to violent extremism, whereas the provisions do not aim to restrict access to legitimate religious practice or the legal exploitation of freedom of expression in the institutions of the Criminal Services, Radical Left may vote in favour of Bill L 79.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104848	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121104906	Danish prisons should not be radicalisation centres for criminals, we must stop that. We want to help prevent terrorism in Denmark. We would like to help the Minister find new tools. There is no point in capturing and detaining people who are then radicalised in prisons and being put together with others. However, as the Institute for Human Rights and the Lawyer Society mentions in their hearing answer, we find that the proposal does not specify in detail what constitutes a radicalised or extremist, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned. That is why, like the previous rapporteurs, we would like to discuss whether these definitions cannot be specified. In the comments to the bill, the Minister and the Ministry also write that it is difficult to define this group, but we must recommend that it should not be up to the individual who is in contact with these prisoners to assess whether a prisoner is radicalised or extremist. There was recently an anti-radicalisation conference at the City Hall of Copenhagen, where there were several experts who just pointed out that we need to become more specific when we talk about radicalised or extremists, because taking anti-radical initiatives can in itself help to strengthen radicalisation, and none of us want that. I think we all have the same objective that we would like to achieve, but there is a need for further discussion of this proposal. Then I would like to sign up for the fine review which I think there has been, of the conventions and the problems and challenges that may be, and where the Minister discusses in the draft law's observations and in a sober way how this can be within the conventions. That is also something we in the SF are very concerned about. We would like to discuss whether, in specific situations, there can be a limit to the conventions, because I do not think that is what the Minister wants either. That is why we are looking forward to the committee reading and the further discussion with the Minister about perhaps being able to come up with some solutions to these problems a little closer so that we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105136	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. The next one is sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105152	Just as we have the opportunity today to section biker gang criminals, it makes great sense to be able to do the same when we talk about radicalised and extreme people. Again, as I said in the discussion of the previous proposal, we must take this deeply, deeply seriously and we must do everything we can to prevent these people from affecting others when they sit there. Then I understand that there may be border cases, but if we are just trying to focus on what is most important, precisely that you don't affect others, and that we can section these people, then I have to say that when I read the hearing from KL, it was just before I needed extra air. Because we are talking about people who are radicalised, who are extremists and who can influence others, and then KL is of the opinion that if the prisoners are to serve far from their immediate environment, it will be difficult to get visits from friends and family, and that will affect the inmate's motivation for cooperation and perhaps direct motivation to find other communities. This is, of course, a hearing answer that KL writes. I am glad that KL does not run legal policy in Denmark. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105319	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105331	I should like to thank you for the positive reception of the bill. I am pleased, as I have said before, that there is broad support in general for the initiatives presented by the government to strengthen the fight against radicalisation and extremism. The bill will give the Criminal Services a better opportunity to place radicalised and extremist inmates more appropriately in prisons, among others. by allowing for the use of sectioning to that type of inmate. The aim of the change is, in particular, to limit the possibilities for radicalised prisoners to recruit inmates to extremist environments, for the prisons must of course be used to bring the prisoners out of crime and not as a recruitment platform for extremist activities. With these comments, I should once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, as usual, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105426	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105439	The debate is open. It's the Attorney General first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105508	The motion for a resolution instructs the government to amend the Personal Data Act so that individuals, companies, associations, etc. may publish images and videos from surveillance cameras of suspected thieves and burglars. It must be possible to do so when the pictures and videos are preceded by a notification to the police. As the rules currently apply, images and sound recordings of personal data recorded in connection with television surveillance for crime prevention purposes may only be disclosed if, firstly, consent is obtained if, secondly, disclosure is provided by the law or, thirdly, if the transmission is made to the police for criminal investigational purposes. The reason for this arrangement is that the exchange of information resulting from television surveillance for crime prevention purposes poses a risk of misuse of information. Breaking and theft constitute serious violations of private property rights. It is frustrating if such offences cannot be solved by the police, and I shall be the first to express an understanding that you may feel the need and desire to do such a thing yourself in order to solve offences. I also understand if anyone finds it unfair that a burglar case ends up being punished while the perpetrator goes free. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of this. But it is also in a modern facebook reality very intrusive to be hung out as a criminal in shops, on social media or elsewhere. It may turn out that it is not the right person who is hanged out. Moreover, in many cases the offence committed will not stand up to being hanged out at all, considering how difficult it can be to delete information from the Internet or from the collective memory. In addition, there is the risk of misuse of the information involved in publication. All in all, it is my opinion and it has not been without consideration, I can then say to the Danish People's Party that it is a police task to investigate criminal offences. In Denmark, we have a permanent tradition that it is also a police task to publish description or other information that can lead to the perpetrator. The police can even do so only if the special conditions of the Code of Procedure are met. Against this background, unfortunately, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105728	There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105731	Thank you. And thank you for the answer or the position of the Minister. I'm sorry the government doesn't intend to support it, but I have to live with it. I want to ask the Minister something. Does the Minister not think that it is an occupational risk if, as a robber or a thief, you risk being filmed, recorded and, as a result, it is recognized and perhaps, if we are really lucky, also convicted? Isn't that the occupational risk of being a criminal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105758	It is one of many risks, fortunately, because we have a clever police in Denmark. But above all, there is the risk that it is a mistake, and I have to admit that I myself have plunged myself into the publication of things through my time, but I must admit that the thing we are looking at social media, with things that are gripping very violently with hateful attitudes and rhetoric, has made me increasingly concerned about what is going on, including the possible display of wrong people. I have to say that I think it poses some dangers. One could imagine an example where a camera has a wrong time indication and where the person standing in front of the window is hanged out where it is the wrong one to start out, for example. And I have to say that I have come to the conclusion that what weighs most on me is the concern for the risks associated with such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105900	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105903	I am interested in whether the Minister will deal with some of the cases that have taken place in the autumn, when ordinary people have had to put up with the fact that either their sports association, as I recall, or their business has been emptied by robbers. It's been caught on a camera. You haven't felt anything happened in that case with the police. We have been waiting for a long time, we have had patience with the system and hope that there will be clarification. Then you go to the last opportunity and you get punished for it. What will the Minister say to those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121105939	I would like to say that I should not go into specific matters in the Assembly. That could create some pretty unfortunate conditions, I should say immediately. But then I have to say that one must then complain, including to the Minister, about the circumstances to which one considers himself exposed, if the police do not investigate matters thoroughly. That's how we do it. The other things that we unleash hatefulness in this way in public space will bring some things that I simply mean in the long run are incalculable and dangerous to our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121110012	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121110022	With this proposal, the proposers would like to see private-recorded photos and videos from surveillance cameras made public by private individuals and companies. Specifically, in connection with theft or break-in, these pictures or videos must be made public when there is a police report. The proposers specifically write in the proposal that the image documentation should be shared on social media, on websites and in physical form. I would like to start by stating that we Socialists want to fight criminals with all possible means within the dignity of a society governed by the rule of law. This also means that we would like to look at how we can limit the number of break-ins. We'd like to see how the police work and whether the police have enough resources. However, because we are in favour of a community governed by the law, we are strongly opposed to vigilante action. This means that it is the police who, on behalf of us as citizens, are investigating crime. And that means that it is the courts that ultimately judge, not ourselves as citizens. When the Danish People's Party wants us as citizens to start searching each other through social media, it is a fundamental breach of the important principles of the rule of law. In this context, let me make it clear that citizens must, of course, be able to hand over image documentation to the police and should do so. So it is today. However, it is and must continue to be the police who assess whether this documentation should be published, whether persons should be sought. This isn't about protecting the criminals. Not at all. But the problem with the Danish People's Party's proposal is that innocent people risk being framed for crimes they have not committed. The Minister for Justice also mentioned this. On social media in particular, we must recognise that there are already major problems with people who have not understood how to commit themselves and who use the web for revenge or who otherwise hang out in an unjust way. I would really like to hear from the Danish People's Party how they intend to deal with the situation where, for example, an ex-girlfriend is hanged out on social media, and maybe ads will be included in the local newspaper where the person is wrongly accused of crime. Does the Danish People's Party believe that it is reasonable to hold innocent citizens accountable in this situation, despite the fact that there may be punishment associated with hanging out innocents? Social democracy cannot support the proposal here. We believe that photo documentation should be passed on to the police, and then the police can assess whether there is evidence to publish the documentation in connection with the investigation. We are happy to discuss how to further limit theft and break-in compared to today, but we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121110343	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then it's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121110349	We in the Left fully understand the background to the proposal, for the victim's situation is whether it is a store owner or it is a villa owner. There should be no doubt about that. If the Left still cannot support the proposal, it is due to different circumstances. The investigation must be in the hands of the police. This is how we feel here in Denmark. The proposal will mean that innocent people are at risk of being confused, at risk of being reported, at risk of being suspected of things they have not done. It's not nice to look like him in the picture... let me put it that way. Even for the guilty, having your image hung up in the community or being displayed on the Internet etc. In many cases, the crime that may have been committed is not at all the same as that which may have been committed. This also applies to the 15-year-old who stole a Yankie bar in Brugsen. It is difficult later to get the person resocialised when he has been exhibited on pictures, perhaps not just in Use, but also on the Internet, on posters and the like. As far as burglary is concerned, exactly the same considerations as I have put forward before apply. I think we should take this opportunity to welcome the fact that the number of break-ins has been decreasing and has been constantly decreasing since 2009 and it has fallen by 32%, and it has also fallen here in the last year and notes that in the recent police settlements we have actually prioritised police action in this area. Unfortunately, the proposal will not have much effect on many of the break-ins, which are carried out by foreigners who have come to this country and are not known in the local area for good reasons. So on this basis I must say that we have the great understanding of the victim's frustration, but unfortunately the proposal produces too many negative effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121110600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121110607	As others have explained here from the platform, this is a proposal which will allow civilian, ordinary people to publish images from surveillance cameras, for example. on Facebook or elsewhere with a related claim that this is a thief or a burglar or another form of criminal. I say "indict" on purpose because these are not images of people who are convicted, but of someone you think is the perpetrator. There are several reasons why I think this proposal is actually more crazy than one thinks immediately when one hears the background. It is not a proposal that merely increases the risk of vigilantness, it is also a proposal that will result in the privacy of some people being violated, so the rights under the Personal Data Act will be violated, and it is, in fact, rights which, despite the fact that some people think they have committed a crime, still have, by virtue of the fact that they are innocent until proven otherwise. I believe that the Danish People's Party actually believes that, but this is a problem in relation to that principle. Then we have also, it has to be said, abandoned the idea that public gadgets are a civil punishment which is applicable in roughly civilised societies. Then there is what other rapporteurs have also said: it can be abused, it can be both false reviews • that you simply do it deliberately • it can be part of stalking, and it can also be a mistake, but nevertheless something that will have great and rather insurmountable consequences for a person if he is hung out as a criminal without actually being so. That is also why the police themselves are very careful to publish pictures of people they suspect of having committed crime, even if they have those pictures. They only do so when they have a real, really good reason, because such a public accusation can be extremely difficult to get rid of again. When the police judge whether to do so, it is police officers who are trained and responsible who assess how much you have to stand on, how much you really think this person is guilty before they publish the pictures. And it is therefore a significantly different situation and some significantly more serious considerations that have been made in this situation than what the Danish People's Party is proposing, so that you can just file a complaint with the police, and then it becomes legal to hang people online to be criminals. Then there is the last thing which is quite practical and which simply puzzles me as to what the Danish People's Party has thought. Because what are they gonna do after that? That is actually the big question that I think has a little to be answered here. What if you find out it's the neighbor or you think it's one of them who lives a little along the way? I guess you have to call the police sometime in that situation. I do not think that this is the way to proceed and react to it in some way. It must be the police who still have to enforce the law. And if we accept that the police do not have time to react, which is why the proposers have even put forward the proposal they think that when the police do not have time to respond to the break-in, you have to respond to it yourself, then there is nothing to do if you first find the thief. So I'm kind of in doubt. Well, it may also be that you have to go down there with the pepper spray that you have picked up in the community service and sort out the situation yourself. I certainly do not know what the Danish People's Party intends to do. But if you think the thought to the end, there's not just a risk of vigilante, so is
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111055	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111101	Thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that, unfortunately, we do not agree on this matter, but so, peace be with it. I have one question I would like to put to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and it is a question of privacy, which the rapporteur mentioned at the beginning of his rapporteur's speech, I understood, the peace of the potential perpetrator. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether privacy is not violated for the first time when it is the case that a thief moves into a private home and robs it or a business or an association or whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111139	I shall start by correcting myself and saying that, of course, I meant the Personal Data Act. In addition, however, it is quite true that it is both a violation of property rights and that it can also be a violation of privacy if you go into other people's homes. What's so mysterious about sir? Peter Kofod Poulsen's argument is that you're not gonna stop breaking into this. You don't stop breaking and entering by people who aren't convicted of anything being hanged out on the Internet. And what does Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen then intends to do if it finally succeeds through Facebook to find the perpetrator? I mean, aren't the police supposed to be in the situation either? Or how is this going to end well at all? Has the thought come to an end: Why is it really a good idea to let people get hung out on the Internet? How do we prevent break-ins by that, how do we solve any more break-ins by that? In fact, there is no logical connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111233	Will Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen have a new brief comment? It's always best to get in there. And I assume that when you say "you" in this context, it's the same as when you say "man." Yes). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111244	After all, it is the privilege of the author of the question to ask the question and the privilege of the rapporteur to answer it. However, I look forward to taking the floor and presenting my thoughts to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and other interested parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111257	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111302	I also look forward to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party taking the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111307	Well, that's quite clear. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111318	The motion for a resolution under discussion by the Danish Parliament, B 29, is a classic example of a democratic dilemma. Because this is not a motion for a resolution in which it is absolutely reasonable to think that one thing is absolutely unreasonable to think the other. It makes sense both to be pro and versus. The sensible thing about being pro is that there is something illogical about not publishing a video taken in your own home. It may also appear illogical that such far-reaching consideration should be given to criminals. That is why we can see the prospects in the motion for a resolution. In contrast, we must also say that there is a very high risk of abuse involved here. You can find many examples of people who have had their lives poisoned by unfounded accusations, and if you are to be allowed to publish a video of crime, there must also be safeguards that protect against abuse and from common entanglements. In the worst case scenario, a citizen may find himself in a situation where the citizen has to prove that he or she is innocent, and that would be an absolutely crucial breach of the rule of law in Denmark. It is therefore reasonable to think that this is a good proposal and to think that it is a bad proposal, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance have not taken a final position on it yet, but are looking forward to hearing the authors' thoughts on how to avoid abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111458	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111509	Thank you very much. A healthy democracy does not harmonize with mass surveillance or vigilanteness, and the fight for the protection of citizens' freedoms and rights in general is an important battle for us in the alternative. This proposal is not about traditional mass monitoring by the state, but it is about citizens' monitoring of each other, and we are deeply sorry about that development in the alternative. This is a matter of principle for us, and suspicion between citizens and what we see as a call for vigilante is an important step in the wrong direction. It is clear from the Personal Data Act that you as a citizen have no right to share anything about other people, and that is how we think it should remain. We are also confident that our police are the best at investigating, and that it is still the police who should be responsible for that part, and not private citizens. It must always be the police's decision what should be published in connection with an investigation. With this proposal, we risk violating innocent people. We risk losing control of who is on display, and once the material is shared on social media, it is virtually impossible to remove it again. In other words, the risk of innocents being hanged out is too great, and we consider that in the alternative to be extremely problematic. We cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111631	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111651	We do not disagree with the authors of the motion for a resolution on breaking into private homes, companies and associations, etc. is a serious violation of private property. Nor do we disagree with the fact that every effort must be made to prevent burglary and theft and that efforts must be made to solve the cases and find the perpetrators. As others have said, it is today the case that the Personal Data Act prevents photos and footage from private surveillance cameras from being posted on, for example. social media and websites, and you should not hang them in physical form in the local area; in Use or Netto etc. It is only the police that may use photos and videos from private surveillance cameras in the investigation of a report of a burglary or a theft, and so the Radical Left believes it should remain. The fact that the police have scarce resources and therefore only to a limited extent investigate burglary and theft is not an argument for private photos and recordings to be able to be posted on social media or hung up in Kvickly or Fact. As far as I know, there has been no desire on the part of the police for this solution either. We are voting against the proposal because we fear that a suspected perpetrator may actually be the wrong person, so that the quality of these footage and photos can be so bad that a perpetrator could actually look like me, and then there might be a picture that might look like me in the Netto near where I live. Another thing we fear is the misuse of this information, because once they're out on social media, they're hard to make disappear. Once they have entered people's vaults, it is that information can be misused for many years to come. Last but not least, of course, there's this temptation to commit vigilante when you're standing with a photo. Clearly, we should try to avoid this, which is why the police alone need to use photos and videos from private surveillance cameras. That is why the Radical Left is voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111843	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121111851	The DF's proposal, which we are discussing today, we believe that the SF is a violation of the most fundamental principle of the rule of law, namely that it is innocent until proven otherwise. If this proposal becomes a reality, it will in future be up to the wrong person to hang a suspected perpetrator on the Internet at the expense of both the alleged perpetrator and his family. The video equipment you have today may be hacked, it may be flawed, there may be wrong time indication, it may be misused between some who have become unfriends, ex-boyfriends, or whatever it may be. It is already the case that the police can, of course, have access to private surveillance footage if needed in the context of the investigation and if they present it. Early publication of surveillance will not only help put the alleged perpetrator in a bad light towards the entire digital society in Denmark, but will also help to make the judicial process more difficult by giving any criminals a biased attitude towards the accused. It seriously offends me from my sense of justice that it will no longer be up to a judge to decide whether he is guilty, but up to each wrongdoer. As far as I am concerned, it is no better for the proposal to require that a police report be attached when the video material is published, because it does not say whether the person concerned is guilty or not. It should always be up to a judge and the police when it is necessary to use the image material to help an investigation. It should not be possible for the individual to further punish a suspected perpetrator by hanging out. It seems to me that the proposal is nothing more or less a virtual restoration of the yawning stick in Denmark. I hope there is no support for this proposal. We can all agree that it violates one's sense of justice and that it can feel like a huge abuse if one is burglarized or something like that, and there we have all read stories about it. In my own family there are several stories about burglary, and it really is an attack, but this is not the solution, and the risks of it are great, and the consequences are serious, so the SF cannot vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112129	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112137	I fully agree with the authors of the motion that it is deeply offensive when you experience break-in, whether it is in your own home or in a company or an association. In fact, we have discussed this quite in depth and the discussion of where we should stand in the Conservative People's Party ends up being that we do not support it. But it was not without careful consideration, and I would like to discuss why we are looking at what we are doing. So, first of all, I take it that the proposal is certainly based on. This is something completely grotesque, of which we can all give examples: some perfectly obvious examples where you can see that the cousin is running around with what he has stolen. But nothing happens, the police don't have the resources, so you're wondering if you could put up this picture. I think that all of us would want to do that, because one would have a feeling that it is simply unreasonable. It's not fair that anyone can get away with it. I understand that part of it. What makes us tip to the other side is that we just won't end up in a situation where it's either false notification or where you can misunderstand some pictures. For example: If it is a shoplifting in the daytime, it may be that there is a picture of three people, some of whom may be hanged out for something they haven't done. We do not really think we have seen that clarified in the proposal. So although we have a lot of sympathy for it, we simply think that there are some things that make it too difficult to measure it all the way through. Perhaps we could then join together in welcoming the fact that the police conciliation we have jointly set aside some more resources for the police to combat burglar crime. They must be fought, and they must be locked up, because it is deeply offensive when they take up the right to enter other people's homes. We are only concerned about this proposal if it hits somebody wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112349	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112420	Unfortunately, Denmark is at the high end, the wrong end when it comes to breaking and entering. In the autumn a number of cases came to the public's attention where ordinary law-abiding Danes had been the victims of a crime and were subsequently punished for putting a video or a picture of thieves on social media. The victims, who had been robbed and using modern surveillance equipment, had pictures of the thieves, saw that the cases were closed and that no real investigation was carried out. Denmark is one of the countries in Europe where the vast majority of break-ins take place. Although fortunately the curve is broken and is now moving in the right direction, the situation is still completely crazy. Too many Danes have plundered their homes and destroyed their security. We will do something about that. We want to go a long way to ensure security, order and order, because it must and must be in Denmark. Therefore, the Danish People's Party specifically suggests that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to take the initiative to amend the Personal Data Act or correct the parts of it that today prevent individuals, companies or associations from putting pictures publicly out of suspected thieves and burglars. Specifically, we imagine that the images can only be used if they accompany a police report. This must be done by faith and promise that the submitted and the later published pictures are related to a crime committed, which has therefore been reported to the police before publication. We still want the clear limitation, which is also set out in the comments, that, if adopted, the proposal will only make it possible to publish surveillance images of burglary and theft, but that it will still require the permission of the police to publish pictures of other forms of crime. The incidents that occurred in the autumn press made the victims of crime very much the criminals. A fairly high penalty was also imposed, and I do not want victims to be turned into criminals. I want the victim to be helped further and, at the same time, set all the sails to find the criminal and to have him punished and punished. The thief who in a foreign family's living room carries around on the flat screen or the children's Christmas gifts deserves to be caught. It must be an occupational risk that you as a thief run if you are caught on a surveillance photo, recognized and subsequently convicted. We would like to see more burglars caught and that the number of break-ins in Denmark could continue to come down so that we could thus have a safer country. Thank you for your comments and I look forward to answering any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112721	There is a brief comment. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112726	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen says we need a safer Denmark. But isn't a cornerstone of a safe Denmark that we have the police investigating and we have the courts judging?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112746	The questioner is absolutely right about that. And it must also continue, if you follow our proposals, to be the police investigating and the courts judging. When there is talk of security, it is vital for us that we, for example, should be able to do so. have the opportunity to be safe in your own home. This requires that we have the number of break-ins brought down further, and this requires that we like to have more of these thieves convicted. And there we believe that our proposal can help to move it in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112811	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112813	Now, let's pretend for a moment that we're going to go in on Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen's premises. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen draws up some examples where what has happened is real. There are some who have penetrated a private home or a company and have stolen some things. But we have to make the law equal for everyone in all thought examples. What about where it is abused, where it can be hacked, where there is wrong time, or where there is someone who has stayed in a home for legitimate reasons, but where the picture is then used for something else? In all these cases it would not be illegal to publish such pictures where people would be convicted by the People's Court, one might say. A few years ago, there was a newspaper hanging an innocent on the front page for killing a young girl. We must not allow ordinary people to do such things, let alone newspapers, but such mistakes can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112918	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112921	I don't want people hanging out. I would like to see the people to whom it may be interesting for the police to speak in connection, for example, with. burglar crime. And that's where we think this could be an active option. We can therefore ensure that the information needed is provided; that people are given the opportunity to tip the police with information that might be interesting. We believe you could do that with this opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112944	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121112947	The rapporteur says he does not want people to be hanged out. I guess that's exactly what this proposal is supposed to mean, that you have to hang people out to show others, to find these people. I therefore miss the rapporteur's view of the situation in which a person has been wrongly hung out. What is this going to mean for the person who has been hanged out on the Internet, perhaps in the local supermarket, perhaps as a picture printed in the local newspaper? What is this going to mean for the innocent person who has been hanged out because those who have published the pictures thought it was the culprit behind the crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113033	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113036	Thank you. I still have the merit of seeing this perfectly clear example of whether it is problematic in relation to the examples mentioned by the rapporteur or would like me to mention. I find it extremely difficult to see what these are examples in which people could be hung precisely if this proposal is put into law. Well, I don't see that it was supposed to be hanging people out if they'd picked the questioner's or my own TV down the wall, if that was it. That it was supposed to be hanging people in a negative sense, I find it very difficult to see. I find it very difficult to see the concrete example that the rapporteur is fishing for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113110	Mrs. Trine Bramsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113113	Does the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party not agree that there may be cases where images of an innocent person are published, even if it turns out later that there is no evidence to accuse this person of crime? However, when the person has been made public as a criminal on social media and elsewhere, it has an impact on the person who had to suffer improperly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113148	One can never guard against such a situation. If it were to arise, it would be gratifying that it was the police who had to investigate such a given situation and that, if it were ever to end in a trial, it was the courts that still had to judge in a case. So you wouldn't be hanged. You would have the opportunity to be cleansed. Who knows, maybe that person could also be in possession of information that could be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113216	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113219	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party believes that it should be legal to publish all pictures of convicted persons, i.e. pictures of all those convicted of crime, so should also be posted on the Internet?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113243	It was a strange question, primarily because it is not what we are dealing with right now. So, what this proposal is all about is making sure that more people who break in and steal can be convicted. For the challenge now is that we see a lot of break-ins in Denmark, but that relatively few people are judged for it. And there we would like the police to have the opportunity to find more people who could be brought before a judge and convicted, so that we can curb the number of break-ins in Denmark. So I do not quite understand what the questioner is going to say, but the questioner has a second chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113318	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113322	There are two things wrong with that, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen says. 1) He does not answer the question, and 2) of course we all agree that the police should catch some more criminals, and we would also like to have the opportunity to have some more convicted, so there is no content in what is being said from the platform right now. What is the problem is that the police do not have enough time to respond to the complaints. And this proposal doesn't help at all. What I asked is, of course, related to what all parties in this room are concerned about, other than the Danish People's Party: the fact that you want to hang people in a public yawning stick and have no problem with it, even if there is a chance that they are innocent. And so, of course, I would like to ask: how far is this going? Would the Danish People's Party like to publish pictures of all convicted people? Would that be okay, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113411	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113414	It is commendable that Enhedslisten thinks the police lack resources. After all, we have been saying that for many years, and that is something we would like to keep the Enhedslisten firmly on when it comes to it. But to return to the question, I simply do not understand the context, because the proposal we are putting forward has to be seen in a very limited framework. These are quite simple forms of crime. This is not the general picture of what you should be able to do. Because we want to try this idea out. I really do not want all sorts of pictures and horror scenarios to flourish on the Internet that the questioner can suggest. What matters to me is that we get more burglars convicted so we can hopefully bring down the number of break-ins.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113459	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113523	The debate is open. It's the Attorney General first.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113534	It is central and crucial for the government that Danish veterans receive the support and recognition that is in line with their great efforts for Denmark. That is why the government has also written into the government base that we are doing a service check on veteran policy and other veteran initiatives. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion that we, as a society, have a duty to take good care of the people who have been sent out and who have contracted wounds on body or soul as a result of their deployment. That is why I am also pleased that the proposers have taken the initiative to look at the negotiating opportunities for former police officers. I think the resolution is both good and sympathetic, and that also applies to the intention behind it. However, if I am unable to support the proposal in the form proposed, it is because there are some elements in the proposal that need to be examined in greater detail. The National Police Office is now making available a number of offers to police officers sent to international service. These offers include various psychological support measures before, during and after an international service. The support measures are offered to both the staff member and his immediate relatives. It is the case that the offers and services of the veteran centres are adapted to the needs of the Ministry of Defence and are based on experience and research from there. Therefore, there are issues that need to be clarified before the proposed scheme can be established. Among other things, it has to be done. is clarified how the Veteran Centre's offer can be coordinated with the existing efforts of the National Police, and it should also be clarified which group of persons should be included in the scheme and which parts of the Veteran Centre's offer the included group of persons should be able to avail themselves of. The National Police have recently set up a working group to assess whether there is a more general need for additional support measures for police officers who have been or have been deployed. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice are in dialogue about a service check. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and the National Police will therefore as soon as possible examine how best to establish a system in which the offers of the veteran centres will be available to police officers who have been deployed. In this way, we will ensure that the former police officers are given the treatment that is best for them. In conclusion, in other words, I am very positive about the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, but there is a need for a study of issues before a system such as that proposed can be implemented. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution on this basis, but I hope that the committee procedure can lead to a good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113836	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113840	I would like to thank the Minister for his fine words and say that, overall, we want the same thing. One of the things the Minister mentioned was that there is also a psychological service in the police. But since there are far fewer police officers than soldiers being deployed, there is not the same insight into ptsd for people who have been deployed as police officers. That was one of the reasons why we thought that there would be that expertise at the Veteran Centre. Policemen could get off to that if they got the same veteran status. That's where you've built up that expertise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113925	I have nothing bad to say about the initiative. My expectation is clear that the studies I am referring to will lead us to achieve the intentions behind the motion for a resolution. I also think that in a moment, when the rapporteur of the Left goes into the floor and elaborates on the view I have, things might be a little clearer for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Now all I can say is for the time being, on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113953	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121113956	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party also welcome the Minister's positive attitude towards the intention. How would the government feel if an amendment were made to include the whole circle covered by the flag day, so that we also have the dispatches of the Emergency Response Board and hence their veterans included in the offers made to the veterans of the defense?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114026	I think it is important to consider that this is an issue on which many parts of the Danish Parliament are concerned, and which is, of course, anchored above all in the defence settlement, where a great many parties are involved in the joint work that is about these things. When it has sometimes been a bit difficult to deal with veteran issues, it has been because individual parties have had individual proposals to be worked through by the others. My best advice in this context is that you try to raise it in the defense circle. Now we're gonna use this procedure. We will examine the matter thoroughly and hopefully it will end up with something sensible in the committee responsible for dealing with the matter. So I think I will refer the question to be answered in the circle by which it should be answered in the first place when it comes to the Emergency Response Board, namely the relevant minister or the defence committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114127	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114137	We must ensure our veterans the best possible treatment once they have returned, no doubt about it. It's great, and it should be appreciated when you serve Denmark both here in the country, but also during other skies. This is also the reason why the latest defence agreement secured new veteran centres and that, right now, new soldiers' homes are also being built around the country in addition to those already there. At the soldiers' homes, which are run in cooperation with the municipalities, all veterans can get help, whether they have been sent from the Defence, from the Home Guard, from the emergency services as health professionals, from the SKAT or from the police. We fully agree that it is essential that there is help for the veterans, but frankly and frankly we have some doubts about the basis of the proposal we are discussing here today. On the one hand, there are soldiers' homes throughout the country, where everyone is welcome and everyone can get help, which is also often closer to where the veterans live than the veteran centres, and on the other hand it is not quite clear what the need is from the police. At first sight, I have not understood the desire of the police here as a broader desire, and there are also some defence-specific issues that apply to the efforts of the veteran centres, which I think it is important to consider carefully before opening up to other professional groups that have been deployed, for example from the police, the SKAT, the health service or for that matter from the Ministry of Justice. I think that we should have a solid basis for the need before taking decisions that may end up having an impact on the professional effort and the security of the veterans at the centres. That must be the first step, and therefore there is full support for what the Minister of Justice has just explained is the approach. Let this be the first step in dealing with this proposal. Thus we cannot immediately support the proposal as it stands here, but we would very much like to be involved in submitting a report in committee or pushing the proposal so that we can follow up on any recommendations that may come from the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114416	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114422	Thank you. This is an extremely important agenda for our veterans and our veteran home. For people who make themselves available in Denmark's service and for Danish interests out in the big world to help secure world peace in one way or another, they need the help and treatment they need when they get home. We note that the veteran homes, for which we in the Danish People's Party have also been great advocates, and which fortunately there are more and more people around the country, have a beneficial effect especially for veterans affected by ptsd. We also see that the veteran homes are now building shelters around the forests, in other words out in the open, so that those who need to be alone and have high ceilings can also do so. The traumas and scars you get on your soul after sending to the war zones are exactly the same, whether you are in the military, the Home Guard, the police or the Emergency Board, as we mentioned before. That is why it makes sense that, for example, the police and the Emergency Agency can also make use of the veteran homes and the expertise that has been built up there. So if there is no obstacle from the military or the police to finding common ground around these veteran homes, we in the Danish People's Party see no obstacle to the use of these homes by police veterans and veterans from the Emergency Agency. However, like the previous rapporteur and the Minister, we would like to have this analysed in detail, and so we would also like to see this proposal kicked a little to the corner and wait for the Minister to come along and then perhaps make a report or take up the points at a later date. However, we are in favour and glad that the proposer addresses this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114625	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114637	Thank you. The SF has made a good proposal and the intentions can be supported by the Left. Thus, it is also clear from the government's constitution that the government wants to give priority to veteran efforts in connection with a service check, as the Minister also mentioned. It is a service check aimed at recognising and supporting the veteran efforts in general. The effort must be made with equal seriousness, whether you have been dressed in a military uniform or a police uniform, whether you are a nurse, CFs, or in which connection you have been serving for Denmark, and you have been injured on your body or soul. The National Police are engaged in a series of support measures, as the Minister also mentioned, with the resultant working group, and the same applies in the field of defence. The Left awaits their proposals, including details of needs, coordination, groups of persons, offers, etc. Special groups of people are central. We must have a holistic system that is free and open-minded, a system that includes all traumatized and disabled groups. As I said, I see no reason why certain groups, such as health professionals and others, should be excluded from a common system. In order to get the proposal amended, extended and clarified so that it can be supported, the Left looks forward to the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights having a reading which should end with a joint report. However, as I have said, this requires that we can agree to organise, extend and clarify the proposal. We owe it to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114815	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121114821	Like the other parties that have been up here, the Enhedslisten is of course also positive about this proposal. Ptsd is a very, very serious disease that can affect and affect many who have been sent out and who have had some incredibly unpleasant experiences with home in their luggage. This has serious consequences for those suffering from the disease and has serious consequences for their families and relatives. It is something that has been inflicted on them while they have performed a service they have been entrusted to, not just by society, but by politicians inside this Chamber, and we owe it to the people who are injured, whether physically or mentally. I believe that most people know that the Enhedslisten was a major opponent of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, for example, but we have always maintained that those wars are never the fault of those sent forth. On the contrary, we owe it to the people who have been there to look after them properly. So I won't put anything behind all this and just say that Enhedslisten will fully support this proposal and help the SF keep an eye on the fact that the Minister of Justice is living up to the things he has said on the platform today. Thank you for a good suggestion and a good focus on an important group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115012	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115025	Like the other parties that have expressed their position, we in the Liberal Alliance also believe that this is a good and sympathetic and in many ways necessary proposal. It is obviously a good idea to provide defence capacity for veterans treatment to officers who have been deployed internationally. It is logically justified that the Defence has been able to build specialized skills to deal with ptsd to a greater extent than the police have been able to. We also believe, however, and it is also, as most people have said, that it is necessary to continue working on this proposal. It is certainly not to be understood in that way that we reject it, but it is not quite so fixed and finished in the form it has. The Minister of Justice has mentioned a number of points which need to be looked into, and we can agree with that in many ways. But is there a demand on the part of the police at all, and how does the defence actually stand on the proposal? These are some of the things that we would like to see clarified. But we have a fundamentally positive attitude towards it. However, we would like clarification of various details of the proposal before we can make a final decision on whether or not we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115202	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115211	Thank you very much. Like the other rapporteurs, I can say that in the alternative we fully support the intention and direction of the proposal. We are also interested, as we have heard several other parties, in looking at whether this proposal cannot be extended further, so that people who have been sent out from Denmark become equal to the treatment offers and the opportunities they have when they come back and may have scars on their body or soul. We therefore support the SF's proposal as it is, but we would like to see it extended even further in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Emrah Tuncer, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115305	It will be difficult to avoid repetitions when you come as the last one in the line. We agree that some of our veterans return from a broadcast with severe psychological injuries and that they are unable to make everyday life work, and therefore there are some veterans who need help to get a good everyday life and move on to the labour market. As a society, we have a duty to take care of these people who have provided their services in the interests of Denmark, and this also applies, of course, to police officers who have provided their services. There are already good measures to help veterans, and the Radical Left thinks it is a good idea for police veterans to have the right to use the Defense veteran centre so that they can get the support and treatment they need. We immediately support the proposal, but we are prepared to wait for the analysis that the Minister mentioned. But I would also like to suggest that consideration be given to a larger model that they have in the Netherlands. A veteran institute has been set up there. Try to imagine a place, an institute which of course includes treatment, residence, rehabilitation, help with matters with the municipality and to apply for a job etc., i.e. that you simply have an institute for veterans. And there it would be obvious that they are soldiers, policemen and, as Jeppe Jakobsen mentioned, people in our preparedness as well. So we think the proposal is very good, but we are also very interested in seeing what the Minister of Justice is returning with, and I think we should consider the model they have in the Netherlands, where they have an institute. There I am sure you can help even more faster and even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115446	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115451	The text, which is here, simply has to be tried to oppose it, and we do not have it either, because it is a very good text and everything that is here we can support it. We just have the challenge that we think there is something missing that needs to be investigated, as the Minister has also mentioned. Well, we'd like to find out what the police are really saying about this. What are they thinking? What are the cops thinking? What's the police union thinking? And now that we are in the process, could we take the broad debate on the other groups that we have sent out? Because the only thing we can't do is leave someone without proper help when they get home. But it is a very good proposal, and I hope that we will be able to clarify it further in the further work so that we can find out, both where the police are actually themselves in this, whether there is any obstacle to doing it this way, and whether we can extend the group a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115554	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115600	Fortunately, in recent years, more and more attention has been paid to how we as a society treat the people who have been deployed internationally in the service of Denmark in conflict areas. And regardless of what my colleague from Enhedslisten said about how to look at the wars and the areas of conflict in which we have been involved, we all agree that those sent out on the basis of political decisions must do everything we can to help. There have been many good initiatives in recent years to give the veterans as good conditions as possible after returning to Denmark. Some municipalities have formulated and implemented a veteran policy, and many voluntary private initiatives have been taken around the country. One of the measures taken by the Defence Department is the establishment of the Veteran Centre in Ringsted, which also employs several of the defense's establishments around the country. The Veteran Centre provides a wide range of services to defenders, and the centre has a great deal of expertise in handling ptsd. However, the services provided by the Veteran Centre are reserved for veterans of the Defence Department. Police officers who have been sent and wounded in the soul have no access to help at the Veteran Center. Of course, the police psychologist service provides assistance to former police officers deployed, but as I mentioned earlier, it is clear that since the number of police officers deployed is significantly lower than the number of soldiers deployed, the same expertise in dealing with ptsd and other mental diseases is not being developed. However, since ptsd of a police veteran is as serious as ptsd of a veteran of the Defence, it does not seem reasonable that previously deployed police officers cannot gain access to the ptsd expertise available to the Veterans Centre. It is a small group of police officers who have contracted ptsd or a similar suffering, and it would hardly be insurmountable if the services of the Veteran Centre were also made available to former police officers. I would like to thank the parties for their support, at least for the intention of the proposal. It has been mentioned by several rapporteurs that perhaps we should also look at other professional groups with veteran status. I am very open to that, but when it is only one professional group that is included in the proposal here, it is because the more professional groups you include in the same proposal, the more complicated it is in relation to some of what the Minister also mentioned, namely that you have to ask the professional group how they feel about it here, so you have both the police and the defence assessment of it. So we are very open in the SF to look at the other professional groups, because for us it can have the same serious long-term consequences, whether you have been deployed as a soldier, a policeman, a health care professional or the like. I am also very pleased with the Minister's remarks and am very interested in following them up in committee, possibly with a report, because the most important thing is that we do something in this area, and I thought the Minister was very positive about that. So I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121115913	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13:00 today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130009	The sitting is resumed and the debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130034	There is no doubt that we all want victims of rape to be received in a good and proper manner by the police and specially treated there by people who have sufficient professionalism and professionalism. That is why I am sympathetic to the fact that the authors of the motion for a resolution propose a number of specific amendments which have precisely this purpose in mind. I am not going to examine the proposal in detail, but I would like to have the opportunity to raise a few of the points which make it impossible for me to support it on the basis of the resolution before us. The motion for a resolution goes one way or the other. • the need for special training for aid lawyers. As it is now, aid lawyers are being looked at on the basis of existing lists for beneficated lawyers. This means aid lawyers, lawyers with considerable experience from criminal proceedings, from the investigative stage to the judicial process. In other words, special demands are already being made on lawyers who act as aid lawyers, and I am confident that the beneficated lawyers are adequately trained to carry out the task. I do not think that there is any basis for introducing a further training requirement, a requirement which could, moreover, lead to a lack of aid lawyers. In addition, the proposers suggest that rape victims should only be given the opportunity to dismiss an aid lawyer once the assistance lawyer has met at the police station. I am not sure that it is necessarily a good idea and a sensible use of resources that a victim who, after being guided by the police and who does not want an aid lawyer, should wait for the aid lawyer to come to the police station before the victim can refuse the offer and have his complaint further processed. However, I am prepared to look into whether there is anything else we can do to ensure even more that aid lawyers are appointed to the victims who wish to do so. It is also proposed in the motion for a resolution that the so-called 72-hour rule in the victim compensation law should be abolished. The reason for the notification deadline in the law is, among other things, that a police report must be made quickly, so that the police have the best possible prospect of finding the perpetrator and solving the case. Not least in rape cases, a delay in the investigation may determine whether the case is resolved. I think it is a reasonable starting point to demand that those who want compensation from the state report the attack relatively quickly so that the perpetrator can be held accountable. As I also mentioned at the outset, I, like everyone else, want victims of rape to receive the best possible treatment from the police. That is why, in September last year, I launched a major study to look at that very issue. The study will look at a wide range of things, such as: police record-keeping practices, police reception of rape cases, investigation of such cases and appointment of aid lawyers to the injured. It is the primary focus of the investigation to identify whether we can do something more for the victims, so that we ensure that the police have the tools to handle matters in a good and reassuring way. However, I am concerned that the initiatives that are being taken meet the needs that are actually in this area. That is why, as part of this study, I also met with a large number of the relevant actors in the field, in order to have their comments on where, from their professional point of view, they see opportunities to improve the handling of these cases. The comments I have received from this have been included in the study. So it is among other things. organized on the basis of input from professionals dealing with rape cases in their daily work. That is why I intend to invite the legal rapporteurs to the Ministry of Justice in a very short space of time for a detailed account of the study in question, so that we can promote action in this context. I expect us to meet in a good atmosphere and have a sensible talk. What will also appear is that a number of the concerns mentioned here in the proposal are with us, and a number of others are not with us, as I have mentioned here, and therefore I look forward to that discussion, but therefore cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130453	There is a short comment from Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130456	Thank you, Minister. There are, of course, a number of questions in this which the Minister does not take a position on. I can hear that we will then perhaps find out a little more about what the Minister really wants to know next week. But I would like to ask two specific questions. Firstly, it is also a proposal to draw up an action plan together with the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality to prevent rape. And this is, of course, about the fact that if we are to try to prevent so many women from being abused, then we must also work on prevention and not just in the area of the Ministry of Justice. So what does the government think of that part of the resolution? Secondly, and more specifically, it's about this 72-hour rule: the proposal isn't about removing the rule completely. The proposal is aimed at eliminating it specifically for victims of sexual crimes, including rape, because precisely this type of crime is so violent that you see time and again that the victim comes to himself only many days later. Can the Minister not see that consideration behind the slight deviation here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130622	What I am really going to say to that is that we will have the opportunity to elaborate on this in a large way next week, when the government's proposals on how this area can be dealt with together will be presented. And I would really like to reserve the right at that time to present what the government's policy is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130639	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130640	So, excuse me and with all due respect: we have a motion for a resolution down here in the Chamber, and it may well be that it does not fit in with the Minister's media strategy to deal with the proposal now. But, frankly, it is not possible to get an answer as to what the government's position is on the resolutions that are being tabled in the Chamber. I'm gonna try one more time. Point 1: What does the government think of an action plan across ministries? And paragraph 2: Can the Minister not see that one consideration, of course, is that things must be reported quickly and that the other consideration is that we are dealing here with very, very vulnerable victims, who often do not report within 72 hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130726	I know that Mrs Pernille Skipper is impatient, but I have been working on this since September, and I would really like to present it in its entirety. This is not so much about a media strategy, but more about respect for those members of the Folketing who agree to come over and hear what the government wants in this area. And I think that's more true. In relation to the 72 hours, I would say that my experience of this case is also that the victims of rape in question have a great interest in resolving the matter. And that is the easiest way to do that is by making a notification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130758	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121130805	The proposal here requires the government to amend the legislation so that victims of rape are given better and more considerate treatment, among other things. through the training of special aid lawyers, the training of officers, the abolition of the 72-hour rule, joint action plans across ministries, etc. Let me start by stating that we in the Social Democratic Party, hopefully, like all the other parties in this Parliament, condemn rape and want it to be brought down far too large. It is quite unreasonable for women to be subjected to this type of abuse, and that is why we are also prepared to use virtually all possible tools and means in the fight against such cross-border and destructive behaviour. First of all, our wish must be that we stand together and across the parties of the Folketing in this fight against totally unacceptable crime. Just over a year ago, the former government, led by the Minister of Justice, launched an investigation into the area, because there are many cases that never turn into cases and there are too many women who are subjected to abuse and it is worrying that there are so many cases that do not end up in a judgment. The results of this work were available in the autumn, and it is gratifying to note that the new Minister of Justice has chosen to take the lead in bringing down the number of brutal attacks, that the work continues and that we are working together in the field of rape. It must be understood from the Minister that in the very near future he will be presenting proposals on how to strengthen the area and these proposals will be made on the basis of knowledge of where to take action. We look forward to it. And we support the so-called 360-degree review announced by the Minister, and we support the involvement of the organisations that are experts in this area, because there is, therefore, when we reject the proposal here today, it is by no means and let me repeat it by no means, because we do not support strong action in this area, because we do. However, we want to ensure that we find the best possible solutions and therefore make the most sense to let the Minister present his proposals based on knowledge based on where there are gaps in the current effort before we from the Folketing impose measures that may not have any effect in the real world. At the same time, may I not say that it is absolutely essential for us Socialists that we prevent rape from taking place at all, and that is why it is important for us also to give priority to this action, in addition to helping victims, in addition to the procedure and in addition to punishment, which we will be discussing in the Chamber tomorrow. So we are rejecting the proposal at this stage, not because it does not need to be strengthened, it must certainly do so, and we are very much in favour of submitting a report to the Committee on Legal Affairs in this area, but I think the most real thing is that we are basing our efforts on the great and very extensive work of facts, study work which was initiated and which is now to lead to a 360-degree review, involving organisations which, moreover, represent the victims. This must be the best way to find solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131211	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131213	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I can reveal that it is not Enhedslisten's parliamentary group that has sat down in a dark room and devised this proposal alone. It's copied from some people who work with the victims every day. I also believe that Mrs Trine Bramsen, as the legal rapporteur, who has dealt with this subject quite a number of times, can recognise some of the suggestions made here from e-mails and hearings and meetings with interest groups working with victims of rape. Having said that, of course I have respect for the decision to wait. I heard a narrow hope in relation to a story. I would think that was a really, really good idea, especially because we don't know what's coming from the Ministry of Justice. I would like to ask specifically about the part about the 72-hour rule, that is, the rule which means that if a victim is to be compensated for a crime, he must report it within 72 hours. And, of course, it is to get people to report it quickly, but that means that there are many victims of rape who cannot actually receive compensation. What do the Socialists think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131330	First of all, I have to say that it is clear that if there is no good work from the Minister for Justice, there will be no solutions that we can use for anything, yes, then we must certainly instruct the Minister, on the part of the Legal Affairs Committee, to take further initiatives. But I think this is so extremely important a matter that we must first and foremost stand together across the parties and not make it a competition for who can come first in the various areas. Compared to the 72-hour rule, it is part of the study that was initiated, and I look forward to finding out and obtaining the knowledge of how many victims of rape do not report within the 72-hour period, what is the basis for any change to this rule and what is the basis for maintaining the rule. And there we are again about having the knowledge-based approach to the area, so that we actually find some solutions that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131429	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131430	There is little more to be said about that than it is good that work has got under way. I believe that there has been some knowledge in this area, at least if you have been listening for a very, very long time now. But then I would like to ask another part, the one about the multidisciplinary approach. For the investigation that is under way is set in motion in the Ministry of Justice, and one of the things we point to and hope for, and which we have, yes, stolen from interest organisations working in this area, is to get a plan of action across the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Children, Education and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Justice. What do the Socialists think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131511	Well, I certainly would not deny that this could be a very relevant initiative. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, preventive action is absolutely essential. You can't solve this by yourself with severe punishments or by yourself with a police effort. The more rapes we can prevent, the better. So it could well be a place to take action and something that I think we should discuss further if the Minister for Justice does not make that proposal himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131541	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131551	Let me begin by commending Enhedslisten for a proposal that is so good in several ways that it could have been put forward by the Danish People's Party. Rape is a very, very serious crime in which it is the duty of society to ensure that the victim moves forward and gets the help needed to return to a tolerable life. I think we can do something better in Denmark. In all cases where rape is reported, an aid lawyer should be called upon. As it works today, there are a large number of cases in which the victim does not avail himself of this opportunity for an aid lawyer who would otherwise strengthen the victim's ability in the judicial system. Of course, something needs to be done about this. In this case, the proposal contains a number of interesting and concrete ideas which we will look into shortly. Training and retraining of staff to address the needs and challenges that the victim may have is also important. This point in the proposal goes well with the thoughts of the police conciliation, which places particular emphasis on continuing training and specialization of police officers, who will in future be even better able to deal with the situation when the victim of a rape reports and the whole process begins. It is also a fact that too many reports of rape end up with provisions and never come before a judge. In this context, I can welcome the fact that the government has launched a major investigation into the whole area in order to find out how we will get more cases before a judge and hopefully get even more people convicted and at the same time help the victims further. At the same time, the motion for a resolution calls for an end to the 72-hour rule, which effectively obliges the victim to report the crime within the first three days. I understand very well that the crime is becoming more and more difficult to solve, the longer it takes, from the time it is committed, until the actual investigation can begin. What I have a greater understanding of, however, is the condition in which the victim must find himself, which guaranteed to make the road to the local police station very long. It is therefore the clear wish of the Danish People's Party that the 72-hour rule be made the past. Fear, guilt and shame and probably many other things can so paralyse the victim's ability to make a proper notification within the current time frame. It must therefore be in the interests of society that we change the rule, which hopefully can also mean that even more victims of rape report the crime. It is my hope that the government will listen to the thoughts of this proposal and to a previous proposal to come up with the long-awaited package, which hopefully will make life easier for those victims who are so badly destroyed by ruthless criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131847	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121131853	Regardless of political stance, we cannot disagree with the fact that we must ensure the best possible response to rape victims. Those who are exposed to such an offensive crime as rape must be guaranteed the most professional and appropriate treatment and handling. As has also been mentioned in the previous speeches, the authors of this motion for a resolution wish precisely to implement a series of initiatives designed to ensure a better response to the victims of rape. It proposes, among other things, that special assistance lawyers be trained to be summoned in all reports; that the so-called 72-hour rule be abolished; and that a thorough study be carried out on how to ensure that a majority of rape reports are convicted in court. There is no doubt that the intentions behind the resolution are both good and sympathetic, but I am sceptical about the content of the concrete initiatives. Among other things: I do not think there is any need for training of special aid lawyers, since the right competences are already present at the functioning of the aid lawyers. Furthermore, I do not think it is advantageous to abolish the 72-hour rule. Despite the scepticism about the concrete content of the initiatives, however, the Left supports the intention of a better response to rape victims. As the Minister for Justice also mentioned, the Minister for Justice launched a major investigation in the autumn which focuses precisely on how rape victims receive the best possible treatment by the police. Here it is examined, among other things, how the police receive rape victims and how the process of the appointment of aid lawyers is carried out. The process of this study is already very long and very much responds to the initiatives of this motion for a resolution. The Left will therefore await the results of the study so that we can take concrete initiatives on as enlightened a basis as possible. Against this background, we cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132120	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132123	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his fine words. The Left says no to abolish the 72-hour rule for rape victims. I understand that we have a rule that says that you have to report as soon as possible. What is such a funny consequence is that the 72-hour rule does not just mean that an investigation is delayed; it also means that the victim, although there had been a crime and everything was true, cannot get his compensation. I also believe that the rapporteur from the Left knows that just when it comes to sexual crimes and rapes, it is a kind of crime that is surrounded by so much guilt and shame that victims are sometimes even years old and therefore the limitation period for some of these crimes has also been very, very long, because we know that as a victim we can take a very long time on it. Is it fair that you lose your compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132235	I recognise that rape is a terrible crime and that it is difficult for the victims to relate to what they should do when they have suffered such a violent attack. But I also believe that it is a reasonable requirement that, when they are to receive compensation from the state, they should report it within these 72 hours. Then I would just like to say that we will await the investigation by the Minister for Justice, because we in the Left believe that there are some good initiatives coming, and we would like to wait to hear them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132309	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132311	In other words, I also believe that a crime should be reported as soon as possible for purely practical reasons. There is no doubt about that. What, as I think, can be rightly questioned is whether or not one's compensation should actually depend on it. Do you have to make that clutch? You do not need to remove the 72-hour rule in reporting crimes, but should you really have your compensation made dependent on it and why? What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132350	It is no secret that we actually believe that it is appropriate for the State to be liable for damages to be notified within 72 hours. We can then disagree on that. As it is right now, we support the 72-hour rule. But we'll wait and see what the Justice Department brings. And then we have to take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132415	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132439	As all the previous rapporteurs have said, it is of course very important that strong action is taken to prevent rape from taking place. And if the unhappy should happen anyway, it is also very important that you do everything you can to solve the crime. Nor is there any doubt that it can be done better than it is done today, and that is why both the previous and the present governments have taken initiatives along the same lines. So there can be no doubt at all about the starting point. Then there are a few elements that we in the Liberal Alliance would like to hear more about and learn more about. The demand for special training for police officers and aid lawyers is a major and complex step, and it certainly cannot be denied that it is appropriate. However, how the system is to work more closely, we believe, in any case, that we need more additional consideration. In relation to revising the 72-hour rule, it can also be said that there can be both arguments and arguments against. It is reasonable to dispense with the 72-hour rule in rape cases. Victims, as several rapporteurs have said, may find it difficult to process the experience, feel guilt and the like, and therefore it is necessary to have a lenient practice in terms of compensation for rape victims. What speaks against has also been mentioned by several rapporteurs, and I would like to mention that too. It is, of course, reasonable to report crime within 72 hours if you want compensation. This ensures that crime is reported quickly so that the guilty person can be apprehended and the compensation case can be settled in the best possible way. But since there are both arguments for and against, that is also something we would like to look at. So we will not refuse to support the proposal in advance, because there are many both sensible and necessary ideas in it, but we also believe that there are a number of elements in the proposal which should be examined in greater depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132710	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132711	Thank you for the fine words. We may be able to ask some questions in the matter, but I just want to know if the Liberal Alliance would then be prepared for us to come up with a text together. Now I can also hear that the Minister for Justice is bringing up some things that might well be needed to follow up through the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132735	In other words, what we would of course consider ideal was if we could achieve some form of common legislation or a common set of rules that could be adopted by everyone in the Folketing. But how exactly does the matter end up depends on how it is dealt with and how the issues I have mentioned are resolved and clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132802	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121132808	The purpose of the Enhedslisten resolution is to ensure better action for the victims of rape. And the mere fact that the proposal is aimed at helping the victims means that it is a proposal that we can only support in the alternative. In the alternative, we are concerned with creating a legal system that focuses on understanding and respect for the victim and that focuses on prevention and rehabilitation to a much greater extent than is the case today, where it is easy to deal with punishment. Sexual abuse is very serious and has major consequences for the future of the victim. Rape is a serious crime, but it is also a very difficult crime with a lot of inherent dilemmas in terms of both the accused and the victim. Although Denmark is already well advanced in the treatment of victims who have been subjected to sexual abuse, major challenges remain in this area. For although the formal framework is in place, this does not mean, unfortunately, that the same applies in practice. And it becomes clear when you look at the large scale of rape cases that are not brought to justice in Denmark and the low number of people who are found guilty of rape annually. The proposal is very positive in the sense that several of the points are aimed at increasing information on rape, but also at raising the quality of the proceedings and investigations. We also welcome the call for a political action plan to prevent sexual abuse. With regard to the 72-hour rule, which has been debated a great deal, we fully support the removal of the obstacles that make rape victims unable to receive compensation. We also believe that the fact that it helps to recognise the abuse can have a major psychological effect on the victim. We must recognise that victims of rape may find it very difficult to make a notification in the days following the attack and that three days must not be decisive for the victim to be able to receive compensation. We therefore fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133010	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Emrah Tuncer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133015	Thank you. I would also like to begin by commending the proposal. Rape is a serious crime, and those who are raped run the risk of having lifelong scars on their souls. That is why we must, of course, do everything we can to ensure that rape victims receive the help they need. That is why I find it difficult to disagree with the fact that we need to train special aid lawyers. We must train and train police officers so that these victims are properly received and given the treatment they need. We're also in on the 72-hour rule. You can do both, I think. That's common sense, because the sooner you report a crime, the more likely it is to solve the case. So I think we can discuss it and say that we can do that, because many of these rapes are not reported. Over 3,000 rapes a year are committed in Denmark, but only around 400 are reported annually. If you opened this up, it might be that more people would take the chance to see if they could solve this case and get the perpetrator to trial. I think the prevention part is most important. It is that very, very early and across sectors, efforts are being made to prevent rape. So from the point of view of the Radical Left, we are very open to this proposal, and we will of course also wait, as the Minister said, to look at what they are coming with, and on that basis we will take a position on it. But as a starting point, we can say yes to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133155	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133202	I would also like to continue and commend the proposal. It overlaps somewhat with the proposal that the SF made in the autumn, and that is probably because we think there are good ideas in it, and I would like to draw some of them out. There's this strong focus on the presence of an aid attorney. All figures show that more cases are being brought to trial and more convictions are being committed if there is an aid lawyer present. Fortunately, we have got training and further training by policemen into the education system, that is, this is a focus point, but there are many policemen who might need some further training in dealing with some of these cases. I will also draw it forward on a comprehensive investigation, more statistics, harmonised procedures and knowledge of how more cases can end up in court. There are different practices, I think you can call it, in the different police circles in Denmark, and I hear Enhedslisten is very concerned to look at that, i.e. where you do it best, because unfortunately there is a big difference between how the cases are handled and actually also from officer to officer or from one policeman to the next. I am not sure whether it is a good idea to train aid lawyers, but on the consequences of it, but it should not in any way prevent me from supporting the Enhedslisten's proposal. We are really happy from the SF that there is this great focus on the whole area, also that there are a large number of media that help us, and in some cases reach further out than we do from Christiansborg in relation to focusing on this here. Then I have no doubt that the Minister is sincere when he wants to come up with some proposals that will benefit in this area. But a slight upbringing here at the end: I do not believe that it is for the parties of the Folketing to be a water carrier for the government in office at all times. It is 14 months since we made our proposal in the SF for the first time. Then there was a choice, and then we retabled it... Enhedslisten makes another proposal, and we hear all the time, we have to wait for more knowledge. It is Parliament's job, if there is a majority, to say to the government: we want you to implement a bill on this basis. And that is not directed at the Minister. It is always a minister's wish to be able to put forward his own bill, but it is for the parties of the Folketing to vote according to conviction. We even saw in the Committee on Legal Affairs that there was a process that was obstructed and extended for the sake of this. Having said that, I would just like to say in a good mood that I think it is very gratifying that, after all, we agree that this is a really important area and that we would all like to make our own case that more cases can end up in court and that there are more rape victims who dare to stand up and also have their case tried. Once again, I do not think the Minister can misunderstand it, but I have every confidence that the Minister will have to present a package in which SF can see itself and in which Enhedslisten may also see itself in the light of that we will see when it is presented. But Enhedslisten has at least SF's support, and now we have to see if it even gets that far. But it will certainly be exciting to see what the government has in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133541	There is one brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133544	It was Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's song that just made me take the floor. That is just a comment and a question. Surely it is not up to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen to judge how much knowledge we other parties want to have on the table before we decide what initiatives to take. Surely it is not Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who can decide whether other parties would like to take decisions on an informed basis. Then I just have one question: is it not true that the SF's proposal, which we discussed in the autumn, was given positive expression all around, but that virtually all the parties were opposed to the element of negligent rape, that is to say that you are going to commit a rape, even if it is not on purpose? And wasn't that why there was no support for SF's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133637	To the end, the answer is no. I made it very clear that I did not want the other points on which there was great support to fall because of it. That is why I also said that I would like to table an amendment and take that part out. Because there was support all around to the other points. Now we are stranded in a committee process because a party would like answers to some questions. Not a single question has been asked in the two or three months that have passed, and that was part of my criticism, namely to obstruct a committee process for the sake of a government. Again, it is not a criticism of the Minister, but a criticism of a somewhat bizarre committee dealing with a proposal. No, I would say to Mrs Trine Bramsen that I am not going to decide what the Socialists want to vote on, but when we hear over and over again that there is a lot of support for the various points, but that we are awaiting the government's investigation, I just want to say that it is the Danish Parliament that should decide what to do about the government. So it was alone that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133743	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133744	I see that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen acknowledges that it was precisely the point of negligent rape that caused the other parties of the Folketing to oppose what was being put forward. I would just like to hear from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen whether it is not true that all the parties of the Danish Parliament have been convened in a very short space of time for a meeting, a discussion, with the Minister for Justice on proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133814	I cannot understand why Mrs Trine Bramsen continues to talk about something that was taken out of the SF's proposal. There was my criticism, actually, that there are some things I am talking to, and it is not Mrs Trine Bramsen at all, but other parties who abuse a committee process and actually put everything at a standstill for several months for the sake of a government that I do not even know has asked for it. But it is certainly not the role of a parliamentary party to act in this way. I just think that you can again today give your support to the Enhedslisten's proposal, regardless of what else the government does. But to state in advance that you will not support a proposal which you may support in general terms, or where you can at least point out very precisely where you want amendments, was just what I thought was a little special.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133908	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121133913	Thank you. As one of the parties of the Folketing, we can at least say that, for our part, we would like to await the discussion we will have with the Minister. This is not because Enhedslisten has made a bad proposal and so I have seen sympathy for a great deal of what is in the proposal but I just believe that we could perhaps go further with the work that has been started since September and have a discussion with the Minister, and then let us hope that we can make an agreement here in the Danish Parliament that can be really good and strong. After all, we are all interested in doing something for the victims, and I fully agree that there can be both blame and shame that makes you somewhat hesitant about the reviews. I would also like to accommodate Mrs Pernille Skipper so far that I agree that we need to have a discussion on the 72-hour rule. I cannot tell you where it should be, but there is, in our opinion, one point in that we will have a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134021	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134036	I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the kind of positive comments they have made on the proposal. I think we should start the place, which is perhaps the worst, and that is the fact that there are about 4 000 rapes or attempts at rape in Denmark each year, and just about 400 are reported, that is to say 10%. Only about 145 are actually charged, and approx. Fifty will be convicted. So that's 50 out of the approximately 4,000. The small proportion of women who have been subjected to abuse and who actually appear before the police is not always very well received either. Cases are closed or are not registered correctly. For years, it is certainly not only since September, when the Minister of Justice began to deal with the issue heard from women's crisis centres and others dealing with the victims, and from the victims themselves, that the police ask women to go home and think about whether it was now a rape, and victims are asked what they had on how they behaved and whether they were drunk by the way. This suggests that there is a cultural problem in the Danish police, and we simply have to realise that. It is also the same problem, which is why at the Danish police stations among the policemen who sit at the counter and meet the victims when they come through the door, there is a myth that there are far more false reports among rape reports than when it comes to other forms of crime. But that's not true, it's a myth. But it is a myth that flourishes, and it means that one can apologize for not taking victims so seriously when it comes to rape, and it excuses the fact that one should suspect them of lying or having some sort of guilt itself, and it maintains the guilt and shame that several people have mentioned, which means that very few women are reporting it. Yet only three out of ten reported rape cases ever reach a judge and they get some kind of justice, you might say. I find it creepy that it is an expression of sexism, an anti-women attitude in our society, if you will, and I think it has been allowed to exist for far too long. What is more, when we talk about a woman being attacked, we rarely talk about a woman walking on a dark road and being attacked by a stranger jumping out of a bush, it happens, unfortunately, too, but the vast majority of rapes are actually contact rapes. They're being committed by someone you know. It is therefore not only a question of threatening higher penalties; it does not actually do so at all, but it is a question of demanding that, in all social contexts, we respect borders, that we talk about consent and that consent should be given and that women should not be objectiveised. Therefore, this work is not only something that should be done in the Ministry of Justice, with all due respect for the study that has been started, and I am also looking forward to the meeting of the Minister of Justice, but it is also about a multidisciplinary work where you have the Ministry of Education with which you have the Ministry of Gender Equality and where you work with norms, limits and consent, for example. in sex education in primary school. That is why our proposal today is about all the things that we have heard from other experts in everyday life, saying that there is a need if we are actually going to do something to prevent rape and help those who have then been raped. It is not about how many months the 50 people who are actually convicted will have to sit behind bars, but it is about making women feel safe and reporting it, having the guilty convicted and giving them proper treatment afterwards. Those are all the things that can move something. I understand from everyone in this Chamber and from all the quotes I have sat and collected that we need to talk a lot more about this proposal when we sit over in the Ministry of Justice. I am quite sure that we in the Enhedslisten are not the only ones who remember well enough that we will also bring these concrete proposals to the Ministry of Justice when we are invited for coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134607	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134609	It is just now that I think I am really saddened by some of what the rapporteur said. Did I hear the rapporteur correctly say that the problem here is that there is a cultural problem with the police when it comes to reporting rape? Well, I guess we agreed that the big problem here is the criminals who commit something criminal. Then, of course, the police must accept the notification and ensure that it is done well and properly. I fully agree with that, but there is also the balance that, as well as being subjected to rape is deeply awful, it is just as terrible if we run the risk of someone being falsely reported. So I guess it's a balancing act, but it's not the police who have a cultural problem, is it? This isn't the police's problem, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134659	It is clear that it is not the police who are committing the rape that is not in any way what I am saying. However, when we are dealing with so few women who dare to report when we can still hear that there are women who are asked by Danish police officers whether they should think a little about this, and whether they were wearing a short skirt, when we can see that the police are laying down too many cases, and when they only get a very small share in court, then it is also a cultural problem in the police that rape cases are generally taken less seriously than other cases. That's a problem with the police. I think that is also the premise underlying the investigation that is being carried out in the Ministry of Justice right now, namely that we have a problem with the authorities dealing with these cases. And yes, I also believe that this is a cultural problem. I mean, it's dangerous not to dare say it out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134806	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134807	Well, there's nothing we shouldn't be able to discuss, I totally agree with that. I think we should just be careful to make this a debate about whether the cops and the police are now responding properly and doing their job well enough. I think it is more about having a discussion about what kind of signals you need to be aware of, that is to say, ensuring that people are well-trained and are skilled enough to pick it up. Yeah, I get that. But this is so sensitive, so I just think it's really important that we don't make it some kind of blame game about who should do it better, but that we target and make people even better at their work if that's where the problem is. That's just the little flag I'm lifting to say that I think we should be very careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134847	That is also what we are proposing, in other words, that we should have specially trained police officers who know exactly how sensitive it is to have been raped and that we should not always react as they do on film, and that the police should certainly not ask women who have finally gone down to the police station to go home and think about things again. So we can call it a cultural problem that one can educate oneself or a problem that is about lack of education, but that does not change the fact that there is something wrong with the behaviour that also unfolds behind the counter at police stations. And I would also like to say that there are more policemen who actually believe in the myth that there are more false reports of rape than there are about other crimes. It is also a cultural and knowledge problem in the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134939	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121134941	This is a very serious issue we are discussing, and the joint effort is something that all parties in the Folketing would like to ensure that we strengthen. That's why I'm gonna give Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is right that we should not start by stating that the police are not taking this problem seriously and that it should be the police's fault that rapes are not being investigated. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur if she does not recognise that there is a need here for a proper discussion based on knowledge, which many of the parties in the Danish Parliament have today set up. Let's discuss this issue from a knowledge base and no prejudices about what we think the police are doing and are not doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135038	I have to admit, frankly, that I am a little bit stunned by the complete fear of touch to say that there may be something wrong in the Danish police. That doesn't mean every cop has stupid intentions, but that means we can do things better. But friends, come on, there are far fewer who report rapes than other crimes. There are far fewer rape crimes at all when they are brought to justice. There are rape reports being put in a dusty pile. There are cops who believe in • as I heard in a quote • that most rape reports are fake. And there are still reports from women's crisis centres, which are those who welcome women who have been beaten up and abused, who say they cannot be allowed to report it. I'm not saying it's police officers who have committed rape, but if it's not a problem with the police, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135152	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135153	What I think gives rise to the reactions is that we do not have much knowledge of this area, and it is on the basis of this that a major study was initiated that should point to different points in the process, where there may be problems and where there are solutions. That is why it is perhaps a little surprising that Mrs Pernille Skipper starts by saying that it is about the police not taking these problems seriously. So I would just like to ask again: could there be anywhere else in the process, could there be several places where solutions and initiatives need to be taken, rather than just finding that it is the police that are not taking this seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135237	I don't know where Mrs. Trine Bramsen has been. This motion for a resolution is about aid lawyers. It's about action plans. It's about compensation. It is about ensuring further training both by the police and by aid lawyers. It's about sex education. So if I have come to say in any way that if we just fix the problems with the police, everything is fine, then I would like to say that I am sorry because it is not right. There's a lot more trouble in this area than that. But I am outraged in my foundation that there is such an unwillingness to recognise that there are also problems and cultural problems with our police officers. We'll do better. This does not make them vicious people, but of course they can also improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135327	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135328	When Mrs Pernille Skipper now claims that there are these cultural problems in the police, I would just like to hear: where is the evidence? What are you building this claim on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135345	I'm building it on what I said before. First of all, we know from studies that only about 10% of people actually report and dare to report. I am based on the fact that even fewer cases are brought to justice, that even fewer are convicted, and I am based on the input, at least for years, that I have received from women's crisis centres, from human rights organisations working with victims of rape, which also tell us quite specifically about situations where women are sent out of the police station again and are told that they cannot report or that they have to go home and think about it again. I would very much like to invite Mrs Britt Baker. I am sure that together we can be allowed to visit a women's crisis centre or other organisations working with victims of rape, which can tell some of the very terrible stories that women have about meeting a police officer. There are also some good ones, of course there are, and we have very fucking police officers in Denmark. But if we do not recognise the problem and dare say it out loud, we will never solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135457	Mrs. Britt Baker. And I just want to remind you that we're not yours in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135500	I'm sorry. Thanks for inviting me. I would also very much like to invite Mrs Pernille Skipper to the Centre for Victims of Rape and Violence, which I will be visiting on Monday. We can go there together. Once again, I would like to ask what studies Mrs Pernille Skipper is basing her claim on. What studies is Mrs Pernille Skipper referring to when it is the case that Mrs Pernille Skipper claims that there is this culture in the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135533	I may now be missing an education as a researcher, because I am not sure how to investigate the existence of cultural problems. It is, of course, a position that I think it is a cultural problem when these incidents exist. When there are still cops out there and, by the way, it is an investigation that I can send out who believes and believes in the myth that there are many more false reports for rapes than for other crimes, then I think it is an expression of a cultural problem. I have not said anything that is factually wrong, but it is clear that the cultural problem is an opinion I express.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135614	Then the Minister of Justice has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135620	I think that if Mrs Pernille Skipper does not understand why this brings the blood of the respective rapporteurs in the Folketing, it must be based on a lack of understanding of what it means when it is said that there is a cultural problem with the So, it is simply an unreasonable charge against the Danish police. I do not understand the slightly wrong view that the Minister for Justice has only started in September, and that is fine and so on. It's actually because I want to provide proper knowledge for the entire Parliament, which can enable us to make a decision. Nevertheless, I shall see here very shortly before this happens that Mrs Pernille Skipper, without being able to refer to any studies, is talking about cultural problems in these teas. I cannot understand why Mrs Pernille Skipper cannot understand why we are going over it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135711	I shall be very sorry if the Minister cannot understand what I am saying. I have just told the Minister for Justice's party colleague that it is clear that not all police officers are involved and that there are fucking police officers. But when we see such a big problem as this, that is, when we see not only isolated cases and not just a single story that appears every two years, but often and often and consistently hear these stories, well, then we have a cultural problem. Do you have to generalize? Never should. Of course. So I must immediately regret if I have come to do so. But I certainly believe that we have a problem that is spreading, it is not just a single case and one that needs to be taken seriously. If you don't dare say it out loud, yes, then we won't solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135807	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135808	That's why the government has been dealing with this issue since September and has had meetings with almost all the relevant organisations involved in this, in order to present that knowledge to the Folketing. But then, when Mrs Pernille Skipper looked at the question from a rapporteur and replied that one of the reasons why you find that there is a cultural problem with the police is that only one in ten reports rape, or what figure it was that Mrs Pernille Skipper used, can I just say: how can it have anything to do with the police? But now we'll see. So we're gonna present these numbers very soon. I do not rule out, certainly not, that among but I simply have to distance myself from the fact that it should be general or many or a general trend in the Danish police. On the contrary, there is a warm desire to investigate rape. What we now need to find out is how to reverse the current in which so few people are brought to justice. And I think we all agree on that. So let us not bring too many prejudices to the marketplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135908	I think I will almost just say that if I have offended the Minister of Justice by saying first in September, I will hurry to praise and say that it is better late than never. Nevertheless, I would point out that this problem is bigger and wider than that. The stories and stories that come about victims who are rejected are not taken seriously and everything else is not a single swallow. It is not something that has come up with a single story every two years or every six months. That is consistent, and that is a huge, huge problem. And by the way, the Minister of Justice has no further brief comments, but... The Minister of Justice I can have all I want). Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121135956	That is absolutely right. The Minister of Justice can easily come back to the platform if he wishes. He doesn't. There are no further brief comments to Mrs Pernille Skipper, so thank you to her. No one has asked for the floor at all, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140025	The debate has been opened, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Cryer. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140041	Thank you. We have winter now and hard frosts out there, but in a few weeks' time farmers will have to start cultivating their land, and this requires both drifting out and spreading some manure. And both are good enough if it's on land where it's okay to do it. However, we should not go back more than a year before it was the case that the Folketing dealt with the same proposal, just in the opposite direction, namely that both manure and manure should be limited in certain areas. This bill had been issued with the number L 94 and it was a green proposal which was in line with the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. In fact, it introduced the Green Denmark Card to increase the protection of our natural areas, and it was a great day for nature and the green transition. A lot of water has flown in the stream or under the bridge since then, and when we were in government, we worked hard to ensure both employment and growth in agriculture without destroying nature and the environment. We are still banners for this approach, and this is in line with the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. Now Denmark has a new government that talks about green realism. One can always discuss how much realism there is in it, but at least a campaign has been launched against any green initiative launched by the previous government. In this light, the problem may be that the number of green-colored people is significantly higher in government offices than in the rest of the country. For green the government's policy is absolutely not, even though it is called green realism. So today, when we first deal with this bill, it illustrates in an excellent way that the government is rolling back the ban on spraying and fertilizing in the nature protection areas, the § 3 areas, before it even came into force. The government thus scraps a substantial part of Nature Plan Denmark, which the SR government had adopted here in the Danish Parliament. What are § 3 areas? It may be be beaches, it may be lakes, it may be waterholes, heaths or fresh meadows etc., and according to the Nature and Agriculture Commission these very areas are crucial for the biodiversity of Denmark. Against this background, the previous government wanted to spare the land so that good biodiversity could be ensured and that EU legal obligations in relation to the Water Framework Directive and the Marine Strategy Directive could be safeguarded. And that one could fulfil the commitment to halt the decline in biodiversity by the end of 2020. The draft law states that compensatory allowances are to be considered in the water plans for the period 2013-2021. That is why it would have been a good idea for the government to have already put forward proposals, for the sake of agriculture and nature, on what these compensatory measures should look like, so that no gift is given now, and then there will be just a bill later. Among blacksmiths we have an expression called making it all in a heat. In this way, farmers would know what they had to comply with, and everyone would know that no more came after. So here it is, because the government itself says so. We just don't know what it is. It may be that we can clarify it today, if the Minister can explain it, and then we might as well get it on the table. 'Cause you gotta take the pissed off with the cute thing, like you used to say. There is hardly any party in the Folketing that is more concerned with ensuring good and stable conditions for agriculture than the Social Democratic Party we proved that when we sat in government so that agriculture can work its way out of the crisis and help ensure a high level of employment in those parts of Denmark that need it and where it is particularly difficult. Having said that, we think it is a little unambitious that the government is not even trying to find this balance where the agricultural framework conditions are improved without our nature, environment and drinking water having to pay the price. We therefore believe that there is a completely wrong approach in this bill, although very, very many Danish farmers are interested in a proper environment and a proper nature, but also want to ensure growth and employment. This is simply a wrong balance and therefore the Socialists cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140520	Someone has, for the time being, submitted for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140523	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about something that the rapporteur himself mentions in his speech, and that is that it is important to focus on growth and development and jobs in rural areas as well. In relation to the proposal that we are rolling back today, which the previous government chose to implement, can the rapporteur say something about the consequences that would have had if it were not the case that we chose not to roll it back in relation to precisely growth opportunities and jobs in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140558	I think this is a very, very small area in relation to agricultural growth. That is why we have a certain obligation to ensure that there are some areas left, and that is what was the genius of having a Committee on Nature and Agriculture built on professionalism, as opposed to the time in 2009 when Mrs Anni Mattiesen's government had the power last time, and where only peripheral zones were introduced without anything else and it really seemed to be a gift to farmers and boasted of it everywhere. However, we have become wiser, and that is why we have today voted to have them abolished. But it all has to be seen in context because we have some obligations. I do not think that, overall, it means much, and I am also really sorry that the government was not more firm in terms of securing a very broad support for this agricultural package. This is only part of it. But I think that it means very, very little in relation to employment out there. But to the birds and frogs it means a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140702	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140704	I would also personally have liked the Socialists to have stayed at the table and, for that matter, had also supported the recently decided agricultural package. I would like to ask a few questions about biodiversity. It may sometimes be a difficult thing to discuss, and at least I think that the rapporteur and I can easily agree that it is important to spend the money in the best possible way, and the proposal that we are going back now was not exactly an example of how to spend the money in the best way possible. Can the rapporteur say anything about how long it would actually have taken to get the benefit of the legislative proposal that we are rolling back today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140746	Yes, I can easily answer that if it is the case that the rapporteur will tell me what is involved in the fact that after this bill we will come and introduce compensatory measures for the very same farmers for whom the demands are now being made. It's playing with blind buddy. In other words, the government and the party to which Mrs Anni Matthiesen belongs say that there will be a follow-up to this, that some compensatory measures will have to be taken. Why can't we get them to know now here? At least we knew what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140816	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121140826	Thank you, President. As was briefly mentioned, this is a roll-back of a proposal which we had a very big debate on last year, L 94 - I remember it clearly. One of the things that puzzled me, and some of what I think is very good, knows that we are rolling it back, is that at that time it came out that the areas, § 3 areas, which were no longer allowed to fertilise, applied only to traditional farmers and not to organic farmers. And all the other things being equal, it must either be something you want to get rid of, or it must be something you don't want to get rid of. It was at least one of the things that we from the Danish People's Party pointed out that we thought we were very strange. That's one thing. The second point is that if you want biodiversity, I think there are other ways of doing it; I have to say that. Some of the things that at least came out in connection with the draft law, L 94, were through the deputies of people who came to the committee and showed maps of where they might have a small oasis that could easily be a section 3 area and that these farmers had actually been protecting for a while. But when the bill came forward, they got checked up on their lands and found out that it was whole fields that had been designated as § 3 areas. And it was fields that had traditionally been cultivated for a hundred years, had fertilized for a hundred years and so on. etc., which had suddenly been designated as § 3 areas, which they were no longer allowed to fertilize. I have to admit that I find this very problematic, that is to say, you own a piece of land on which you do not actually know the conditions and which you suddenly can no longer cultivate. And that is why, of course, we from the Danish People's Party opposed it when it was introduced with L 94, and then we also promised that we would have power as we had observed, and we would roll the law back. That, then, is what is happening here and, of course, we support that wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141030	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sorry to the rapporteur, because there is just one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141040	I am sorry that I pressed in a little late, but I thought the rapporteur would continue and I would have liked to hear the whole speech. I did. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party a little bit about nature and into biodiversity, because the nature we want to protect with this bill is one of Denmark's most endangered habitats. This is about our meadows, for example. a whole lot of Danish birds, who have lived in Denmark for many years, live in; it is the only place they can find food. This also applies to butterflies and insects. Does not the Danish People's Party also believe that our children and grandchildren should experience starlings, copper-snippets, brushans, butterflies in our meadows, or is it only something that should be reserved for our generation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141127	No, of course it must also be something that our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren should experience for that matter. I think that what has been problematic when L 94 was proposed and, as I hope I was also highlighted in my speech, was that section 3 areas were not necessarily the only meadow that the rapporteur is talking about, but were suddenly expanded to be areas which, in my optics at least, have nothing to do with land that we should protect. That's one thing. Another thing is that if you want to have biodiversity and want to promote nature, it is at least important to me that you do it in the right way, and so there are places where you see things being left untouched, including meadows that are suddenly taken over by nettles, etc. Well, maybe there's more beetles downstairs, I shouldn't be able to say that, but at least in my optics maybe that's not exactly what I think my great-grandchildren should be jumping around in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141229	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141230	This protection of the meadows, of our section 3 areas, was not introduced for fun, and it was not introduced to bother the farmer. It was introduced because we have an extremely great challenge in protecting our nature and in protecting any nature that is in very serious decline and where a whole lot of the animal species and plant species and flowers and insects and fungi associated with that nature are threatened with extinction. So I think it is really important when we deal with this bill today that we can at least agree that the protection of this nature will have to be dealt with in a different way. And it's urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141317	I do not think we disagree, but I think we should do so in an appropriate way. After all, we have discussed something like untouched forest before, which we know most people say provides significantly more biodiversity for perhaps less money • what do I know? But we can always talk about that, because I would say that the calculations are, at least for me, black speech. But what is important, I think, now that you have such a case as this, is that if it is nature that we want to protect, then it is surely everyone who has to protect it, and I must admit that the illogical thing in L 94 was for me to see that if you were an organic farmer, you had to fertilise, but if you were a traditional farmer, you could not. Then I find it hard to find out what you really want. That's one thing. The second point is that, when you want biodiversity, you have to make it as appropriate as possible, but also as cheaply as possible, I think, in relation to some people having to live off the profession they have as a farmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141418	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments, and this time we mean it. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141428	Thank you. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 82 on the amendment of the law on planning and the law on nature conservation, I would say that the Left will of course vote in favour of the proposal. I have to say that it is a pleasure for me that we are discussing this bill today. I am pleased that we can now lift the ban on fertilising and spraying on section 3 areas, and I have to say that, even when we dealt with it here on L 94 in the last period, we were also against the ban at that time, and there are essentially two reasons for this. Firstly, this proposal for a directive would have a huge impact on the agricultural industry, and secondly, a ban simply does not fit in with our aim of making more targeted regulation, in which we will have the most environment and nature for taxpayers' money. The ban was actually intended to impose a financial burden on the industry which was so great that for some farms it could simply have such major consequences, so that, for example, they would be able to do so. could be forced to go bankrupt. The Danish Nature Agency actually calculated that the ban would have negative financial consequences for the industry of as much as 47 million. kr. annual. This is partly due to the fact that this ban would result in a reduction in yields on the various areas and an increase in the rent, but also in the abolition of land subsidies. In addition, the ban will also result in land value losses of up to several billion kroner. In this way, the Left will not be helping to impose these extra burdens on the food industry. We simply believe that it is contrary to what we would otherwise like to do, namely to make targeted environmental regulation. However, as I said, the ban would not only be unreasonable and costly for farmers, it would also be poor use of public funds, since the funds would not be focused where the impact is really greatest in terms of achieving increased biodiversity. The University of Copenhagen submitted, among other things, that for one eighth of the price of a sixth of the area, it was possible to achieve exactly the same biodiversity in forests as for initiatives in the open country that L 94 went on. Many of the § 3 protected areas on which the previous government imposed a ban on fertilising and spraying have been in farming for many, many years, and I can say that I myself visited some of the farmers who would be affected by the previous bill in an earlier period, and I must say I was shocked to see how their map suddenly looked significantly different, how large areas were suddenly entered as § 3 areas. When I spoke to those farmers, they described that they had cultivated the land, had been given the meadows of their cattle and actually cared that there was a beautiful nature and that they had also ensured that there were good opportunities for among others. Beach birds etc. to breed. The previous draft law can be said very badly, but I can conclude by saying that I am, of course, pleased that all the bourgeois parties support the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives here today and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141837	There are some brief comments. The first in line for a brief comment is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141841	Thank you very much. I simply have to correct some of the nonsense surrounding biodiversity. The nature of our meadows, our heaths and our excesses is seriously threatened, and so are the species that live there. These are starlings, they are larks, they are butterflies, they are rare orchids, they are brushans, and I could go on. None of these species live in the woods. It is absolutely pointless to talk about protecting forests in order to save the biodiversity we are losing in the open country. There's no connection there. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that we in Denmark must have a more diverse biodiversity than the one that is in the forests, and we are also obliged to protect the one that is in the open country, and therefore also in our meadows, which this bill, which is now being rolled back, had exactly as its purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121141946	I can then say that some of the species of birds which the rapporteur has just listed are precisely some of the species of birds which were in danger of not having any place in the future if we had retained this draft law on these meadows, because many of those meadows would simply be in danger of growing into a reed and alfred. Many of these meadows would not be greedy for the future, because farmers simply could not economically operate the properties in these areas. The cost to farmers would be so increased that they would simply have to close down these farms, and it is really the farmer who has cared for them so far. Fortunately, they will be allowed to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142034	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142036	The rapporteur makes it sound as if this bill would throw much of Danish agriculture beyond the edge of the abyss. I would ask the rapporteur to confirm that for 81 per cent. of the farms the cost will be just over DKK 7,000. per holding. I hope that this is not a cost that would cause agriculture to go completely bankrupt. Then I just think it is important to be aware that spraying and manure, especially spraying, but also manure, harm these natural areas in a way that makes the species feel really bad, and that is why we have to take care of it and ensure that we have meadows that are free from spraying and manure. Will the rapporteur in any other way ensure that we have these habitats protected in a way that is in the future in a different way from this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142125	I am sure that the current government and the current minister are precisely working to make some very good moves, which perhaps the Minister himself will also discuss a little later today, and which can indeed help to increase biodiversity significantly more for less money than this bill, which we are now rolling back, would have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142148	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142150	Thank you. I have asked a little about it earlier when I myself was on the floor as rapporteur, but that is about the thing about the bill. When will it come and how big will it be? I think you should've told me everything. After all, it is recognised that concrete measures must be taken. And if the rapporteur knows that, will she tell the Danish Parliament and, if so, tell us what it will cost for the entire profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142217	There may be many desires to also get a lot out in the Parliamentary Chamber here today. I have to say that I respect the importance of taking good time to process what kind of package or legislative proposal needs to be put forward. I have to say that it is better than risking us doing something similar to what the previous government presented. And I do not think it was well worked out when we dealt with L 94 in the previous session.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142248	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142249	Now you have to be careful what you accuse others of, because it is exactly the same thing you do here. A proposal is put forward which removes only one element, and then it is written in its legislative proposal that there will be compensatory measures in order to comply with some provisions. So I'm just gonna ask you again, when is it gonna be, and how much is it gonna cost? It may well be that Mrs Anni Matthiesen is basking in an agricultural package where agriculture nods and says it was good then, etc., but there will be a bill afterwards. Is it not reasonable to tell them, and if so, can we not just be told that there will be compensatory measures? Because isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142327	I have great respect for the impatientness of the Socialist rapporteur. Sometimes, I would say, maybe the Socialists should choose to stay at the table, for example. During the food negotiations. In this way, you might have had insight into things a little earlier. But now I simply have to say to the rapporteur that one has to be a little patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142355	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142358	Thank you. I just have two brief questions for the rapporteur. One question is about the difference between nature in Denmark. The rapporteur mentions that something is expected to be done in the forests soon, and I just want to know whether it is not true that there is a great difference between nature in the forests and in the open country. The second question is this: I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we really expect 47 million. kr. a year will be able to help significantly on a farm that is in crisis, as it is in Denmark at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142437	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, there were several reasons why we took the decision to roll the bill back. It was, of course, as the rapporteur mentions here because agriculture was and is in crisis, but indeed also because we believe it is important that we get the most nature and biodiversity for the money. Having said that, I can say to the first question put by the rapporteur: yes, there is a difference between nature and biodiversity in the open country and in the forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142513	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142515	Is there not a need, then, for action to be taken both in the forests and in the open country, and for action to be taken before a good proposal like this is cancelled, what you want instead, and to present it, so that we are sure that something positive will happen to nature in the open country as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142535	Yes, it is important, and I also think personally, and I can say this on behalf of the Left, that it is easy to work on increased biodiversity in the open country, but also in cooperation with farmers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142550	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142552	Thank you. These are exciting times. The Committee on the Environment and Food was on a study trip to Lolland-Falster last week, and we know that we are going to talk about forest and nature and all this, and even if we are some people who are not in the food package, we are at least some who have opinions on it. And I would like to supplement both my colleague from the Enhedslisten and the alternative in the view that biodiversity cannot be exchanged. I am glad that the rapporteur actually said: No, it does not matter whether it is biodiversity in forests or in the open country. Therefore, if the rapporteur now acknowledges this, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can point to some researchers who believe that this proposal will not harm biodiversity, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142642	Well, what I can at least say is that there have been a lot of scientists out with different opinions on what is best to do for the money. That, among other things. It has also been suggested that the red-listed species will be protected even more if action is taken in the untouched forests. That is why we simply believe that if we as a responsible politician are to look at how to get the money as quickly as possible, it is precisely in the forests that we must also tackle it. That does not exclude the other, but at the same time I think it is possible to focus on the open country, but in cooperation with the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142726	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142728	It is true that in the forests there are not so many farmers who want to shout out. That's true. However, I believe that there is always a false link between the crisis in agriculture and quite real legal requirements to protect nature, especially vulnerable nature and biodiversity. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge, as the Minister has done in several consultations, that the economic crisis in agriculture is a debt crisis that exploded in the '00s when land prices rose and debts were incurred?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142811	The reason why we are rolling this bill back is not solely because agriculture is already down. This is also due, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, to the fact that we believe that the money can be spent significantly better in order to achieve much better biodiversity significantly more quickly. So I have to say again: in the examples I have been looking at around the country, the farmer has actually been a naturalist who has ensured that there was also a very good biodiversity, among other things. In the meadows.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142845	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121142859	Thank you. The crisis in agriculture is deeper than ever. I think that is clear to all of us. The government has on many occasions, among other things: by presenting this bill made it clear that they would like to help the farming community recover. That is precisely what we cannot possibly disagree about. There is an obvious need for this. But the question is what is the sensible way out of a crisis that seems to grow bigger and deeper day by day. The logic behind this bill, and moreover the growth package recently launched, is that a true agricultural gift area, in the form of a series of relaxations of environmental regulation and the law on plans, should give artificial breathing to a profession so far beyond the edge, without it seemingly considering what the root causes of this crisis are and how agriculture should be able to hang together in a sensible way in the long term. What is to be feared is that with this bill and with the growth package, agriculture is lulled to sleep and brought deeper into that crisis, instead of taking political leadership and making sure that a real change in the agricultural industry is initiated. With this bill, the government will give agriculture a minimal economic boost. This will be done by abolishing the protection of some of the most vulnerable nature in Denmark at all. Our heaths, our meadows and our excesses have, for the most part, what is called unfavourable conservation status. In other words, it is very threatened and the species associated with these habitats are also threatened with extinction. It is a nature that has a unique significance for many endangered birds, animals, mushrooms, flowers and other plants. These are species that cannot live anywhere but the meadows, and that is why it is so pointless that we talk about forest when we talk about this nature. I think it is important also to remember that the birds associated with the meadows are among the most endangered bird groups in Denmark and Europe. These are species that we must protect because we are obliged to do so. This applies both for the sake of the international conventions that we have signed up to, but certainly also for the sake of our children and grandchildren. It is because we want them to be able to experience the starling, the lark, the copper chip, the brush, the stork and the vibes when they go for a walk in the countryside. Or they can see the typical Danish meadows with day butterflies and beautiful flowers, for example. The rare orchids. All these are central parts of the Danish nature, which we must take great care of. And that is what we are about to lose right now, because agriculture has spread far too much. The small amount of protection put in place by the previous government, which is being rolled back today with this bill, could ensure a small increase, could provide a small part of the necessary protection, because according to researchers, a ban on spraying and fertilization on section 3 areas will mean that there will be a slow progressive increase in biodiversity, and the improvements will be seen already within 4-10 years. We must stop the decline in our protected nature. We should already be in the process of implementing action plans, nature conservation measures and conservation measures. We're just not there. On the contrary. What we in the Folketing have spent the most time in this area over the past six months is rollbacks of protection. It is the removal of peripheral zones that was finally adopted today, and it is now this proposal that will roll back a small but necessary protection of our § 3 nature. Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143334	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143353	Thank you. Although Mrs Anni Matthiesen has already made a little advance on the joys and promised the full support of all the blue parties, I would still like to give a rapporteur's speech right here. And let it be said straight away that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposed non-implementation of the intention of the previous government to ban fertilization and spraying on § 3 protected areas. The legislative proposal here is therefore a matter of maintaining the current level of nature protection and not a deterioration. Let it also be said straight away that the Liberal Alliance of course believes that we in Denmark must, in general, comply with international commitments in the fields of nature and the environment, for example. prevent the decline of biodiversity. In this context, however, I do not see that those obligations necessarily have to restrict the opportunities for agriculture to pursue their profession. On the contrary, I believe that farming and a variety of nature can easily exist together in the open country and still develop away both for agriculture and for nature. In fact, the extensive farming, which most often takes place on these § 3 areas, is part of the necessary nature care to preserve meadows, overland areas, etc. This is, in fact, a good example of the coexistence that may exist between agriculture and nature. Moreover, a ban would also have meant that the operation would probably have become uneconomic on part of the land, which would have meant less or no maintenance and nature care and consequently possible loss of the habitat types covered. Another loss, which I think we should also address, is the loss of operation by a ban, which is estimated to be around 50 million. kr., which is probably not highly rated. Moreover, a ban would have meant a significant loss of value on agricultural land of well over 1 billion. kr. Just before Christmas the Liberal Alliance concluded an agreement with the government, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on an agricultural package. And with this package, we have given a start to a significant paradigm shift for the targeted environmental action in the open country • an environmental effort without production restrictions and without general crop restrictions on agricultural land, where environmental regulation does not necessarily have an effect and at least has no documented effect. In future, therefore, we will ensure that farmers can fertilise optimally and not maintain peripheral areas where they have no effect. In other words, we ensure that we get the most environment for money and that Danish agriculture is not burdened with unnecessary environmental rules that reduce competitiveness. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that Danish regulations on nature and the environment must follow EU rules and directives in order to avoid distortions of competition for our companies. Only in exceptional circumstances should Denmark go on its own and introduce special legislation. We also believe that, in order to create the most nature and biodiversity for the money, the state must give priority to nature care and improvements to existing nature, including on the 3 protected areas outside the cultivation area, rather than trying to create new nature by means of increased restrictions on agriculture. That is why, as we have already heard, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143805	There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143810	Thank you very much. In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur that we need to think agriculture and nature together in a good way, because precisely our meadows, which are the ones we are talking about today, are dependent on being nurtured, and this is done best by grazing animals. So far we agree: agriculture and nature must play together constructively in the future. But we will not stop the decline in biodiversity if we do not stop fertilising and spraying these areas, and precisely because the natural areas here are so dependent on grazing, they cannot be placed outside the cultivation area. We need to ensure that this positive interplay takes place precisely in relation to agriculture. So I would just like to hear how the Liberal Alliance imagines we can stop the loss of nature and biodiversity on meadows to be nurtured by grazing cattle if we do not stop spraying and fertilizing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143906	As I said, there is no change in the situation today, and I believe that the focus, which I also mentioned at the end of my speech, must be that we identify some specific areas, existing section 3 areas, on which the effort must be focused rather than having this general approach, which can be said to be the expression of the previous draft law. Instead, we should move to targeted action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143935	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121143937	It is true that there is no change compared to today, but we also have a very big problem today, because 96 per cent. of the habitat types we are talking about are threatened, and thus the animals, plants, mushrooms, etc. that live there are also threatened. So we are forced to do something to reverse the decline. We are forced to make some changes to ensure that many years of decline in these areas are turned into progress. You have to make some suggestions about how it should be done. If you do not want to do what the researchers are suggesting, it is obviously right to do, namely stop fertilizing and spraying, what will you do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144020	As I said, a focused effort is necessary rather than general rules and restrictions over and above the entire area covered. Then there is a debate on a natural park in the pipeline this spring, at least as far as I am informed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144039	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144040	I'd like to ask Sir. Carsten Bach one question, because it was just before Mrs Anni Matthiesen got the bag laced and had the Liberal Alliance put in it: we agree on everything. And I was just wondering if those beautiful paintings we have down here in the back, with the place of things and Guldborgsund in the background, were getting the upper hand on Mr. Carsten Bach. After all, these are such motives where you can see that there are some areas in our society that require special protection. That is why I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance also shares what the government is putting forward here and about which we cannot be told. What compensatory measures must be taken and, if so, must they cost something?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144124	I think I have said earlier here from the platform that simultaneousness is not necessarily a demand from the Liberal Alliance, and neither is it in this context. I am fully confident about the negotiations we have had on the agricultural package that has just been completed and the negotiations we are going to have on the nature package, in other words, that the compensatory measures are being organised so that they comply with the EU directives that we must, of course, comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144152	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144154	But it doesn't have to be right away, that is, one could imagine that one had had a parliamentary election. That's what we have with the government, that is, that it distributes gifts and then lets others pay the bill. And we can see that in 2009 peripheral areas were the best that could be given to Danish farmers. It has been so regrettable, and that is fair enough if you have become more enlightened now. But it is a little interesting that you only put one part out and then write: There will be more, and you will have to be aware of that, but we do not know what it is and what it is going to cost. You only tell the positive story. Why don't you tell them everything? And, if so, in the negotiations that have taken place, has it been asked what measures could be taken as compensatory measures? Because it says you have to live up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144240	I certainly do not agree with Mr Seligman. Bjarne Laustsen in that it is not pointed out that at a later stage there will be more targeted regulation in this area. I think this is clear from the agreement that came out of the agricultural negotiations before Christmas. On the other hand, I fully agree with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen in that the present government party thought at an earlier stage that among other things: It was all-saving for Danish agriculture. So the Liberal Alliance has never agreed with the Left on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144316	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144329	It is all the small lakes and streams and meadows etc. that make up the small nature that is very close to all of us, the nature that very many Danes know and use every day. We also need to be careful about this nature, and we can do that, among other things. do by refraining from spraying and fertilising it. That is why the alternative seems to us to be a very good idea to keep these areas free from spraying and fertilizing, and that is why we cannot now agree to the draft law that is before us. We would like to discuss in committee whether organic land could also be exempted and thus meet somewhere on the road. We could also look at whether we should continue to fertilize the areas called culture; it could also be a place to discuss some solutions. Finally, you could look at the cattle that run nature care. I think there are some pretty rigid requirements for feed mode that you could also look at in this context. However, as the proposal stands here today, the alternative is therefore against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144444	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Emrah Tuncer, the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144453	Because our environmental rapporteur, Ida Auken, could not be here, I have been given the task of expressing the opinion of the Radical Left, and I would like to start by saying that we cannot vote in favour of the bill. I would like to explain why biodiversity is, after all, a word we use to highlight the wealth of nature. It describes the wide range of animals, plants, their habitats and their genes, but biodiversity, as other rapporteurs have said, is at risk. Plants and animals are threatened by extinction, especially because of human activities, and once biodiversity is lost, we cannot get it back. Because biodiversity in Denmark is threatened, one third of our species are on the decline. One of the greatest threats to biodiversity in Denmark is fertilization and spraying, and it is important for us that the current ban on fertilising and spraying the land remains unchanged. Because the ban will ensure that the protected regions really receive the necessary protection in order to promote the plant and animal life associated with these areas. If the ban is lifted, the protection will only include requirements for continued operation to date, which has not proved sufficient to counter the decline of the species associated with those areas. That is why the Radical Left is voting against the lifting of the ban on fertilization and spraying on § 3 protected areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144630	Let me also state straight away that the SF is against the proposal and that we are very opposed to it. The proposal before us today seems to us to be a direct disaster for the Danish nature. The proposal is also a dispute with the green Danish map. The green Danish map is otherwise internationally praised as an action plan for how we can once again bring our nature up to a reasonable level with coherent forests and natural areas and better opportunities for animal and plant life. The proposal will mean that, in the future, nature in Denmark will be significantly aggravated to the detriment of anyone other than those farmers who find it difficult to limit their manure to the land that can tolerate it. This will mean that a large amount of natural space disappears and with the wildlife and natural experiences that we have enjoyed in Denmark. Denmark is already one of the world's most intensively cultivated countries with almost two thirds of our area under plough. Only Bangladesh is more cultivated than Denmark. So nature needs space. We do not need more agricultural land, we need better agricultural land, and this proposal does not help. We are constantly talking about the crisis in agriculture, but what really did make agriculture debt? It was the explosive rise in land prices in the '00s, it was the speculation and also, in part, the bad choices that were made. That is why we are very sorry that I have also said several times to the Minister that instead of looking at how to get a sustainable agriculture that can be remunerated, where money can be made, one-sidedly focus on quantity and to derogate from the principle that we otherwise cultivate everywhere else, that the polluter pays. Denmark is extremely cultivated, intensively grown, nature needs more space, and when you say that we can get more biodiversity for the money by focusing solely on forests, it is not possible, as several of my colleagues have said, to play trade-trade-buyer, because there we will not live up to our commitments in relation to the Biodiversity Convention, and it is a global problem that biodiversity disappears, and there we should go ahead in Denmark and think new about how we can again get an agriculture where we can earn money, but on proper conditions and where we do not deliver the bill to future generations and to all other taxpayers. We are really sorry about this proposal, we think it is like peeing in farmers' pants, and that is not usually done, because it certainly does not help. Instead, we should look at how we can do better with the area we already have, yes, actually have more room for Danish nature. The SF is opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144956	There's a question. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121144958	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask how the rapporteur is going to ensure that these meadows are grazed if farmers can no longer make the economy for the operation they have today, i.e. the properties that are there today and where their cattle are grazing these meadows. How does the rapporteur intend to ensure that grasses are then moved forward and that birds, i.e. beach birds, etc., can continue to be nurtured on these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145036	From the SF's point of view, and we have said this several times, we would really like to cooperate with the farmers who do nature care. But it's not nature-care to spray and fertilize on already vulnerable natural areas. It's not and we need to protect these areas. I know that the rapporteur and the Left are consistently speaking about section 3 areas and say that it is not always a vulnerable nature. But if you have that view, you could start by giving some very specific examples of how the designation should be different. Instead, you chop it all up in one chop. Where those species live and where they can only live, if they are not sprayed and fertilised, they are removed in one cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145130	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145132	I think that somehow gives us some food for thought. It's not like all of a sudden, when we roll this back, it's gonna be different. Because the law that we're rolling back wasn't put into effect. This means that there are still the same flowers, the same insects, etc. that were there when L 94 was adopted. It is the case that many of these farmers are just some of the greatest natural carers. They are the ones who have ensured that there are both insects and birds in these areas. That is why I would like to ask again what I did not get an answer to: who is going to graze these lands if it is up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145217	But the premise put forward by the rapporteur of the Left is that this is not a problem for these animal species. That is precisely why we wanted the law to be introduced, because every year we see new bleak figures for biodiversity for these species that disappear. It is a global problem and it is also a problem in Denmark. In the long term, it will also be a huge problem for agriculture, because the whole ecosystem is linked, and we continue to see that because of spraying and fertilization there are species that disappear. That's why we wanted to introduce the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145255	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145258	Thank you very much. I think it is a really exciting debate we are having now, and I would like to ask Mrs Matthiesen's question a little further: does the rapporteur not agree with me that we really have more problems in terms of having our natural areas degrassed? One of them is that a great many conventional farmers keep their cattle, their dairy cows, in the barn because it is best worthwhile. They'll be close to the milking machine. And in reality, it is also a problem that we have to deal with, in relation to our meadows and our meadows, where the most obvious solution is to help agriculture to a higher degree of conversion to ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145339	I almost think the Enhedslisten rapporteur gave an excellent answer to his own rhetorical question there. Yes, SF agrees with Enhedslisten that things are connected, and you can both get more ecology and more animal welfare and actually also a higher value of the products that we have to sell and make a living on if you think about it here. Denmark cannot live on quantity. This is the paradigm that has been riding with us for many, many years and on which we do not make enough money. There are plenty of farmers who do not make enough money because they focus on quantity instead of increasing the value of the products that we have to sell both at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145417	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145418	I am very pleased with the rapporteur's reply, because I think it is important that we also have the emphasis that this is not a question of one side of the House wishing to have an agriculture and the other side of the Assembly, but that we in the red block are very concerned about ensuring that we have both agriculture and nature. And this particular bill is an example of how the chain gets off for the bourgeois parties because they think they have to choose. We simply need to ensure that the measures that are forward-looking ensure good conditions both for organic farming, where demand is growing, but also for our nature, which is in alarming decline.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145500	Well, I fully agree, and that is why I also believe that the heading of the nature and agricultural policy that the green block has should be green realism. Because there is little realism in what the government or the right is calling for, because that is not what really goes in and solves the economic problems of agriculture. The only thing we can live on in the future is high-value products and, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, ecology is precisely a parameter for which people will pay more money. This also applies to animal welfare, food safety, etc. We have a lot of problems with zinc, copper, antibiotics and everything that ends up in our food chain and in the fields. And that is why we must also reduce this if we are to have agricultural products that are worth the price they will have to have in Denmark with the level of wages and the level of costs that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121145601	Thank you. There are several rapporteurs today who have called for agriculture and nature to be reduced. I think it was Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who said it in order to promote nature. That is exactly what a majority in the Folketing has done by creating a new agricultural and food package. We have dared to think new and take responsibility for making a paradigm change in the way we regulate in Denmark. Well, that's a little interesting to hear, sir. Bjarne Laustsen refers to the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission when the Socialists chose not to be part of the Agriculture and Food Agreement. For that is precisely what is at the heart of the agreement that we are following up on the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission to think new in this area and target regulation. And we are doing exactly what the Nature and Agriculture Commission thought we could, namely to give better space to agricultural production while improving the aquatic environment. That's exactly what we delivered on. And that's why I have to ask Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, what is wrong with the balance? Sir. Bjarne Laustsen mentioned that there was a wrong balance. I think we are lacking answers from the Socialists on what balance this is that is unbalanced in that we are now significantly improving the aquatic environment in the coming years, while at the same time allowing for the expansion of agricultural production. What is interesting, even for those who are opposed to the legislative proposal now before us, is that we say that instead of the general regulation, which this is also an expression of, where you simply make a provision that section 3 areas should be banned from spraying and fertilizing, we would like to take a targeted approach to discussing also to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding how we can stop the decline in biodiversity and make a special effort to promote the endangered species. Several rapporteurs have also referred to the fact that we will be discussing a nature package this spring, which will then have to make a greater effort in this area. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen also spoke of a campaign against any green initiative launched by the previous government. It is further interesting that, as a follow-up to the Nature and Agriculture Commission's proposal for a targeted regulation, the Social Democrats, while in government, made a growth agreement in 2014, which gave each other a handshake that should be done. Apparently no more happened in that government's time, but now we are making sure to put it into effect. Now we're gonna make this paradigm shift that makes it more targeted. What I find a pity in the debate is how little some of the rapporteurs really have left behind what the significance would be of L 94, i.e. the ban on spraying and fertilising that would be introduced here in 2017. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding speaks of artificial respiration and of lulling agriculture to sleep. I think it is an arrogant approach to have us talking here about an industry where there is a cost of 47 million. kr. with the ban that we are now lifting with the bill. To talk about the fact that it is so minimal in terms of economic terms in relation to a profession which is really severely affected by the economy, I simply do not think it is fair. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen actually spoke of this being peeing in farmers' pants. In other words, if we were not in the Assembly Hall, but in a Assembly House, I would perhaps have used the rhetoric that with L 94 we really pissed on farmers in relation to imposing restrictions on operations where they have been in a situation where it has grown into a section 3 area. I miss the interest of some of the rapporteurs in doing exactly what is being said, namely to think about nature and agriculture together and to be more focused on looking at: what is the effort we want, and how exactly can we achieve some of the things we talk a lot about, namely to strengthen biodiversity and make an effort to maintain and develop the very beautiful nature we have in Denmark? How can we do this while at the same time having the deepest respect that we have a food industry that provides employment to incredibly many people in Denmark and ensures that there is a very high export income, namely with goods exports of around 150 billion. kr.? Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen may then wish that we should have more high-quality products and so on, but I really believe, when we look at the production delivered by agriculture, that we can say that it is exceptionally good quality compared to that of many other places in the world. And that is why we can have the huge exports of food products that are taking place in Denmark. All in all, however, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments and, in particular, to thank the parties who support the fact that we are now amending the provisions here so that L 94 will never really come into force. At the same time, I would like to say to the rapporteurs that I look forward to negotiations during the spring on how we can then proceed more specifically in terms of promoting nature in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150200	So far, four have brief comments and the first is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150207	I have to say that what I really think is arrogant is to imagine agriculture that if we simply remove peripheral zones, relax a little on manure rules and let them keep spraying and fertilising on § 3 protected nature, we will solve the deep, deep crisis they are in. It's an air castle, it's not gonna happen. What is the current challenge when we speak § 3 - protected nature and nature at all - is that when we are a small country as we are, we have to stop thinking that we can say that this is where agriculture is housed, and then nature becomes something we place somewhere else. It has to be the same areas where food production takes place and where there is nature and rich biodiversity • the same areas. That is why we need to have agricultural production that is capable of supporting rich nature and rich biodiversity, and unfortunately conventional agriculture cannot do so, but we have an agricultural production that can be called ecology. In connection with the fact that there has been so much talk about untouched forest when we had to deal with biodiversity, my question is: will the Minister ensure that meadows and open nature are thought into the nature package that is on the stairs so that we do not believe that we can solve the biodiversity problem by laying aside some unspoiled forest areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150340	I do not know to whom Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd refers, but at least I have not tried to convince agriculture that we are solving their debt problems with the Agriculture and Food Agreement. On the contrary, I have stressed at numerous meetings that this is not a package of crises, and it does not make a particular effort in relation to the debt problem, but it allows for an increase in agricultural earnings and, as such, means a fundamental change in the conditions for farming. And I believe that we really have the lead in the paradigm shift we are doing with the targeted evaluation. I fully agree with Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding that agriculture and nature must be considered together. I completely disagree with the fact that conventional agriculture does not contribute, I believe it does to a very large extent, and I think that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is wrong if you think that simply changing the form of production and moving away from conventional production could solve all sorts of problems. On the contrary, it would give us some serious challenges in Danish society. So there I disagree with you wildly, and I can say that meadows and open nature are, of course, one of the things we need to discuss when we want to look at how best we can make an effort in terms of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150456	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150457	Hopefully how we can all I hope the Minister is very aware that that is the challenge. We have four years left to live up to our commitments to stop the decline. That's quite a short time. I agree with the Minister that ecology, if it was the clue that was chosen, which is what has the greatest potential to ensure this co-thinking of nature and agriculture, must also be developed, and it must in fact be able to deliver much more than it can today. But I have to say: large uniform fodder deserts consisting of identical wheat fields, grazing animals kept in stables all the days of the year instead of coming out and grazing the nature that so badly needs it, the manure that has to rise to the detriment of our aquatic environment, so that you can get a higher yield to make it hang together, and we could go on and on. It is not a forward-looking solution to how we can both stop the decline and get an agriculture that can make money in the long term, which is what we all want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150610	I can hear that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is extremely enthusiastic about much of what is included in the agricultural and food package that was agreed before Christmas. We've got one of them. agreed that we are now making sure that there are appropriations for all those farmers who want to convert to organic production. It is actually something new, it has become possible through that agreement. That's one. The second initiative we have taken in relation to ecology is to set up an ecological business team to look at what is of obstacles, bureaucracy, rules and what it is that more could be done in relation to market-driven development in the ecological area. So there we are responding to a great deal of what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding wants, precisely to promote the possibility of being an organic farmer in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150659	Time's up. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150701	Thank you to the President and thank you to the Minister. I believe that, in addition to having difficulty controlling the flow of speech, the Minister also has the problem that she has a selective memory. She only talks about the things that others may have done that the Minister thinks are bad. I was then involved in the negotiations with the Minister on green growth, and there were no limits to how good it was with the peripheral zones and so on. But it was a bad political craftsmanship. In the end, we were thrown out, and it is a bad political craftsmanship if we cannot get a majority that is so broad that it can also hold up a change of government. That is what the industry is asking for, and neither has the Minister been able to deliver it at this stage. When you have a state-paid apparatus that sends out press releases that we should not now have peripheral zones and that there has now been a new agreement and so on, I think it is wrong that people should not be told the context and say: we have regretted the peripheral zones, they were not what we thought they were. That is why it is quite fantastic that the Minister is so confident that what you are doing here is simply good and, at the same time, in the same bill, there is a bill coming after it. Can't we get a little more information on what that bill is?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150818	Now I've heard sir. Bjarne Laustsen put that question to various rapporteurs. I do not know what it is for a bill to be picked up and what it is for compensation. Well, the bill we're dealing with here today, the L 94 is rolling back that's it! Then I'd like to ask Mr. Bjarne Laustsen: What is to be changed in the agricultural and food package? If there was a majority after Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's head, what was it that the majority wanted to change? Because I haven't figured that out yet. On the contrary, the Socialists have been in the negotiations all the way through, and I have so much responded to the wishes that were there. So it is very incomprehensible to me what exactly would be changed if it were possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150900	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150902	This has nothing to do with the food package. This has something to do with the legislative proposal we are debating, which is why it is very simple when it says that compensatory measures must be taken. That is why I have asked the rapporteurs who have helped to say that they will vote in favour of this, whether there will be some things afterwards and, if so, what is coming. That must be a quite honest question, and if the Minister cannot answer it today, we have ways of getting an answer to it. We have to ask that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121150929	I finally think so, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has to ask as a committee question, because we are not talking about compensatory measures in relation to the roll-back of L 94, which contained a ban on spraying and fertilising on section 3 areas. We're just gonna roll that back with this bill. But I can then say for general information that this spring I will be working on a nature package where we will look at how we can strengthen efforts on biodiversity and at least promote Danish nature. There are various elements, but this bill is similar to the original L 94.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151008	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151010	Now the Minister and I had just had a small debate on various forms of expression, but after I had expressed myself, the Minister said in a reply to my colleague that this obviously does not help the economic problems of agriculture. For what the Minister says it has a value for agriculture is one seventh of one thousandth of the debt in Danish agriculture, that is to say one seventh of one thousandth of the total debt. So you can say: if it is a drop in the ocean in relation to the huge, huge debt that in agriculture, is it worth it when it costs biodiversity when it costs nature and it also costs on the bottom line? Because it is all of us and future generations who will pay the bill. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151110	I certainly believe that this helps to solve the economic problems in agriculture. That's why this bill means that the industry doesn't lose 47 million. kr. in revenue, so it certainly helps. But what really helps is the Food and Agriculture Agreement. That's what makes it a big difference. What I said to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding was that it does not help the debt problem as such. But that will help to improve farm incomes, and that is precisely where I think we should express respect for all the various burdens that may be involved, and that is what I missed from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. I think this proposal is quite important in its substance as well. This is not a targeted approach, and I really think that Mrs Anni Matthiesen had explained quite well how this creates a lot of challenges, among others. in relation to the grazing of meadow areas, because it can no longer be linked to the operation. I am also aware that in many places it has been found out whether one could not get one's land taken out of § 3 status in order not to be subject to those restrictions. And then there was the whole approach that was taken, that there should be exceptions for organic farms. In other words, there are a great many substantive things in the legislation adopted under the previous government, which I think is questionable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151230	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151231	This is a well-known disagreement. However, one continues to say that an amount of less than one thousandth of the total debt, one seventh of one thousandth of the total debt, would save agriculture. I therefore think, regardless of what the Minister says, that the Minister continues to point it out that that is what must make the big difference. 360 billion kr., and it appears that it has been adjusted up to 370 billion. kr., is now in debt in agriculture. Everyone who understands this is saying that this is the biggest problem in agriculture. It is capital, it is the return on debt, it is the debt crisis that weighs on agriculture, and it means that the smallest fluctuations are needed in order for some to go beyond the edge. In the SF we want a farm, but we want solutions that actually work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151322-2	Now I will not repeat myself, because I have just answered all those things. I just find it difficult, even after today's debate, to see where the SF wants agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151335	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151336	Thank you. Now we have been talking a lot about ecology, and the alternative also means that we must have a faster transition to organic production, but I do not want to go into that any further. But I'd like to dive into some details and try to be constructive. Because we are now going into some committee work, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. could look at what has been highlighted several times about the organic areas. In this context, as far as I have understood from some farmers, there are at least some farmers who highlight the rather rigid rules in relation to cattle grazing in nature areas, and one could then look at the rules and make sure that the animals can be in a slightly worse state of feed in winter than what the requirements are today. One could also look at whether the culture should perhaps be taken out, so that we talk about naturege and we can maintain there some demands that we should not fertilize. Well, I'd like to go into the detail and see if we could meet somewhere in connection with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151445	I can hear that the alternative also welcomes the fact that the parties have ensured that we find land payments for those farmers who want to convert to organic farming instead. And yes, I would like to discuss what we can do in terms of specific areas and what it could promote, both in terms of the different types of production, but also in terms of biodiversity. So I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151509	Sir. Christian Poll? There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160121151528	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, January 22, 2016, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
