ParlaMint-DK_20160114100039	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100049	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100118	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100146	Thank you for the floor. The family law package, which consists of three parts, has been a long time in the process, and we are many who want to see this law finalised. However, we need to actively address a future law of such importance to so many people in Greenlandic society. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, the law on marriages between same-sex couples is a law for which we have long actively worked, and therefore we look forward to the possibility that it will finally become a reality. The extension of the existing possibility of registered partnership and civil marriage to the fact that two persons of the same sex can also enter into marriage by church marriage should be a matter of course in a modern democracy. With the entry into force of the law on parental responsibility for Greenland, it will still not be punishable to travel with your child between Greenland and Denmark when there is joint custody. I can't imagine anything more insulting as a parent than your child being taken from you, despite the fact that you have joint custody, without the other's approval of this. Governments should engage in dialogue on this in order to find a solution. A young girl once told Children's Terms that you should love your child more than you hate your ex. It describes very well the difficult situation for the child and the parents in divorce or in a breakup of the family. This is a difficult situation to face, and when one is clearer than the other, it can lead to a number of conflicts. Inuit Ataqatigiit has chosen to ask a number of questions about the bill on the family justice package. I myself have been on Inatsisartut's legislative committee when the matter was dealt with in our Landsting, and have among other things. the proposal for the introduction of guidance figures in the social field in Greenland. One of the key challenges in Greenland's society is that aid in the social field is unfortunately far too late because of the enormous workload in social services. The Social Advisor Association (NISIIP) estimates that out of the 240 trained social workers there is only a small share working as case workers today. According to their own figures from Greenland's self-government, a case worker can sit with as many as 300 cases. This is, of course, not acceptable, because at the same time it means that we have an inadequate offer of child-sacrificing advice. However, our problems must not be the reason why we are relaxing the laws of this Parliament which can help to ensure that improvements are made. I therefore believe that it is important for reasons of principle to be vigilant when a Danish government opposes a decision on a legislative work which has received broad support in Inatsisartut, Greenland's Landsting. In Denmark, for example, the state administration has. the obligation to provide child-sacrifice advice by dispute over parental responsibility, and this possibility has a single legislative committee in Inatsisartut also wanted the Greenlandic law to include ^ with the addition · as far as possible. The Danish Government has not wanted to accommodate this. The Danish Government has justified this by the fact that the competences of children's experts are not sufficiently present at this stage. However, let me remind you that the government in its government basis has a stated objective of • and I quote • to work for a standard on Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark, with the special derogations that can be justified in Faroese or Greenlandic conditions. Quote out. With this proposal, we are expected to accept a new law in Greenland that is lower than the Danish law. This is far from reasonable. It is not reasonable for the Greenlandic law on family law to be a deteriorated version of the Danish version, as an increased need for staff with child experts skills is probably not a particular Greenlandic relationship, but something that the Danish government also has to deal with actively. I know it remains a challenge in Danish society as well. Today it will therefore be children's families in Greenland who pay the price for not having adequate child-sacrifice advice and for not offering child-sacrifice advice early in the process, so that the conflicts are resolved early and with due care and without the loss of relationships between children and parents. Without changing current practice, therefore, conditions are not improved for families with children in Greenland. The argument that it is a special Greenlandic relationship cannot be used here. We must be the first to ensure a modern law that is not inferior to the Danish law, and then, with political priority, we must help to lift the area of family law. Since it is precisely a grey area between a Greenlandic responsibility and a Danish responsibility for families, it is obvious to enter into a government dialogue, as the Danish Government cannot renounce responsibility for family law. The Minister refers in question 11 to a letter to our Nalakkersuisoq for culture, but what is being asked about is in connection with the Minister for Social Affairs, as this will precisely help to give the opportunity to lift the social area and the social services, something that will provide the opportunity to offer child-sacrificing advice and conflict mediation as far as possible. That is why it is not considered an adequate response from the Minister for Social Affairs, and I regret that there is no desire to find a solution for an extended possibility of conflict mediation for the benefit of families with children in Greenland. I must conclude, therefore, by saying that, in connection with this long-awaited bill, unfortunately, there are some serious criticisms of the Danish legislative process: on the one hand, we have not listened to a united Greenlandic Parliament on laws which concern us in Greenland and, on the other hand, the laws with the linguistic adjustments mentioned on the Danish side are weakened and thus do not correspond to Danish laws. This is serious and should not be repeated in the future. Therefore, there is no doubt that IA would have liked to have seen Inatsisartut's contribution incorporated into the laws as they exist, and I will continue to work to get them incorporated through a dialogue with the government here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100854	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100901	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur recognise that there are currently no necessary competences in Greenland, why the wording should not make sense and that the wording can therefore offer advice to families with children makes better sense? That is also why the self-government supports it here, because the wording can then give autonomy the maximum flexibility to use the resources that are now available, either for advice in connection with a divorce or for other forms of advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100933	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114100934	Thank you very much for your comment. The problem is, of course, that the government in its government base writes that one would like to ensure the same standard, but in Danish legislation it has to be, and what ends up with is that one makes a deteriorated version of a Danish legislation and sends it to Greenland. I do not think that is acceptable, because what has been done is to write a letter instead of a letter, and we know, like those who draw up the laws, that it is of real importance in practice. I think it is really a pity that this is not taken more seriously by the government. We should try to find a common solution, because it is the outstretched hand that I think Inatsisartut has advanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101017	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101020	I believe that the government takes this very seriously and also wants to support as much as possible. In view of the situation, however, where only the resources currently available are at present available, would it not be possible, if one writes that those resources would then be used in an area where they might be better spent in another area and that the flexibility offered by the current legislative text would therefore be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101044	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101046	A practical solution could be found, for example. The Court of Justice was asked to consult children's experts or to help ensure that an institution was set up which could help to offer mediation. This is very important for a lot of families with children, and I have talked to a lot of them myself when I was a child speaker, and it is typically the children who will be the losers in this game. So I think you have a responsibility that you can't just renounce. One cannot just say that it is a purely Greenlandic responsibility; one also has a responsibility here on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101118	Thank you. Social Affairs and Home Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101129	Thank you for the comments made by Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. It is, of course, a bit surprising at second reading not to get an indication of whether you really intend to support the bill. We are in the process, a number of questions have been answered by the rapporteur, and for me it is important to make it clear that we clearly support and are very, very concerned about the whole update of the legislation on both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It is precisely the case that Greenland's autonomy has requested that the legislation on family law for Greenland be updated, and that is precisely what we are doing here, among other things. to put the law on parental responsibility into force for Greenland with the necessary adjustments in relation to the conditions in Greenland. And what I think is an important direction here, and where I would also have liked an indication of whether the support is there, is that the authorities in Greenland are now being given the opportunity to offer child-sacrificing advice by dispute over parental responsibility. It is true that it is a difference in relation to how it is in Denmark. But it is a difference that is necessary because Greenland does not currently have the necessary competences to make such an offer compulsory. And that's why it's for me to see an important step. This is an important step in the right direction and I very much hope that the rapporteur will vote in favour of it at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101308	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101313	Thank you very much. After all, it is Greenlandic responsibility when we talk about the social area, and we also have a debate on Friday, which is just about the same thing. We must recognise that there are a number of challenges in the social field in Greenland. There are a number of things we still need to get to grips with. I also know that the social workers' association NIISIP has been out criticising the conditions there are. But I think it is a pity that the responsibility of the Danish Government should be waived in relation to just listening to what Mr Inatsisartut has said. After all, it is a broad majority in Inatsisartut who wanted to extend the possibility of providing child-sacrificing advice. I would like to have the Minister's reaction to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101400	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101401	I believe that we are listening very much, and that is precisely why we are dealing with this whole legislative procedure now and the whole huge amount of preparatory work which, of course, precedes the fact that today we are at second reading of an extremely important legislative proposal. That's for exactly those things to happen. As family law is being updated, it is of course crucial that we have the opportunity to offer this child counsellor's advice. And I hear the rapporteur in the direction of wanting the large, complete model, but I also ask that the rapporteur recognise that the conditions in Greenland at this stage are such that the competences necessary to make this a compulsory offer are not there. That is why, in my view, it is not reasonable to call it a compulsory offer if the reality is that this is not what is happening in the first place. That is why I very much hope that the rapporteur sees this as the important and the right step.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101503	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101509	Now it's the case that we have a small handful of circuit dishes in Greenland, you could say, which could help lift this task. And there was a possibility that you could hire child counsellors in these courts to help ensure that there is a quick solution to this, instead of having to go through a whole series of conflicts and that the conflicts are actually escalated along the way. This would be of benefit to families with children in Greenland. Is this something the government has considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101538	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101540	Where employees carry out their daily work and how the conditions of employment etc. Is, for me, a matter for Greenlandic self-government. That is why I am still looking for an answer as to why, at second reading, we do not indicate whether we are going to support the whole of this great legal complex or are not going to support it. That is what a second reading is also about. I think it is crucial that we now take the important step of being offered child-sacrificing advice when there is disagreement and that we do so in a way that is reasonable in relation to local conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101617	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101636	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114101659	Thank you. When we first dealt with the bill on a better framework for school provision in the 27 small islands, I said that we in the Enhedslisten were and fully agree with the intention of the proposal. We have sympathy for the objective of preserving schools in the small islands. At the same time, however, I said that we were concerned that the proposal actually creates a risk that schools in the islands will actually be run out. It is not a concern that we are left alone with. We share it among other things. with the Association of Danske Småøer, who has warned in his hearing that the consequence of the bill may be that several municipalities shut down the current primary schools on the islands. They fear this because, with the new rules to run private schools in the islands, the municipalities will be able to shift responsibility for the closure of schools to their parents themselves, because now parents will be able to take the initiative to maintain a school on the island by setting up a free school or a branch of a free school if it is really so important to have school offers on the islands. I have heard in the debate under way that a natural objection to that view could of course be that one could not at all imagine that there were municipalities that might speculate on the parents' reactions in that way, but I think it will be very quickly that it may be an objection which will not hold when the municipalities are put under further economic pressure in the years to come. In fact, the proposal's provision that municipalities should pay a higher amount to the State for pupils in free schools in the islands than for free school pupils in general does not remove the financial gain that the municipalities will derive from the abandonment of primary schools in the islands. It does not do so because the actual costs of the current operation of primary schools far exceed the amount which the municipalities, following this bill, will have to pay to the State for the corresponding operation of a private school. There will therefore be a clear economic incentive to close primary schools and, at the same time, there will be a significant risk that in practice there will not be a free school ready to take over the school offer if a primary school is closed. It is, of course, the case that what is expensive for the municipality, what makes it expensive to run a primary school, is, of course, the same factors that will make it expensive for a free school to set up a branch on that island. I therefore believe that we will be right in our concern if the government's proposal is adopted unchanged, namely that the intention that has been will be affected by its contradiction, that is to say that there will be no better but a worse framework for running schools on the islands. By its very nature, as was also discussed at first reading, this will lead to difficulties both in maintaining and attracting families of children to the small islands. I announced at first reading that we would take the initiative to table an amendment to the draft law. We have had discussions in the Enhedslisten with several other parties, and I welcome the fact that, together with the Danish People's Party and the SF, we have been able to formulate a joint amendment, which means that a special grant will be given to the municipalities which run schools in the small islands and which means that we will use 3-4 million. kr. A year may provide security or, at least, a very high probability of removing the economic incentive to close the small schools. I can see that, in addition to the three parties mentioned, the parties have agreed to the government's proposal in the report that has been prepared. So I would urge that we reconsider the matter. I think it would be true to vote in favour of the government's proposals without any change in terms of creating a better framework for running schools in the small islands, that the result is that in some of the islands there is no school at all, and that would be a very sad outcome to a proposal which actually had a good intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102130	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102143	Thank you. That is just a brief follow-up comment on what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said. Because it is a bit to create a false premise when you stand up here and indicate that this bill will mean the closure of schools in the small islands, when what we have seen for a number of years is actually that there are a number of school offers that have been closed down in some places, because the number of children has become so small that there has simply been no such basis anymore; in some places, because perhaps in the municipalities you have weighed relationships against each other, professionalism, stability, economics, other things that lie in making municipal decisions. That is why it is not right, as the Enhedslisten rapporteur says, that if this proposal is adopted, schools will be closed down. There has been a closure over recent years. What this proposal makes possible is that we saw, among other things. Specifically at Fejø, where the school has been closed, will be able to set up a branch of a private school to ensure a school offer on the island. I think it's too bad you're gonna put your foot down. I also think it is a pity that we do not recognise that, in this proposal, there has been a great deal of work to minimise the financial opportunities for speculation, or whatever you might call it, which might be by saying that the municipality has to pay the full grant. As it is today, 100 per cent can be saved in principle. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for his excellent work. It will be possible to do so in the future, and I really think it is a pity that some parties will not be able to help the small islands, which have asked that the Folketing act, act, amend the law, so that a school offer could be created, among other things. Fejø. Something else we'll take care of with this bill, for example. the school offer at Fur, where there is a concern that the number of children may fall over the coming years, and that therefore one can get into trouble in relation to the free school law in order to maintain the existing free school offer at Fur. There we have listened and I have listened to what Parliament's parties have said, I think, a very good arrangement for the existing free schools in the small islands, so that they can also continue, despite the fact that the number of children can vary slightly from year to year, as we know. So I really think that this bill is very much an expression of the fact that the parties of the Folketing have listened to the wishes that have been expressed from the small islands, from the parents' circles, about whether there could be no better conditions. And I could really have hoped that Enhedslisten and SF would have fully supported that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102413	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102417	I am not going to blame the government for any school closure that happens on the small islands. There were ten schools left in 2012 AND 2013, and there are eight schools today. It will be difficult to criticise the Minister for that, so that is not my business. I would also like to stress that we have already indicated that we can actually support the government's proposal, including with regard to the Nur school, if we feel that our amendments are adopted. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that the Association of Danish Small Islands has expressed exactly the view I referred to on the platform, namely that they fear that the proposal will lead to the closure of primary schools. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102506	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102508	Well, I think that all the parties in the Folketing have listened to the concerns that exist. Because there is a broad recognition that a school offer on a small island in some places is disproportionately more expensive than running a primary school elsewhere. And that presents some challenges, even with the amendments that lie there. But it's not just about that. It is also about what professional considerations they make in a municipality, compared to how long they have to maintain a school offer. And I do not think that we should always make ourselves overjudges on just one parameter, but that we should also respect the fact that they often feel better locally, even if it is a school offer that has the quality that a school offer should have in relation to children and young people. It is my view that it has played an equally important role in the places where the difficult decision has been taken; it has been to close a school offer on the small islands. So I think it is wrong to reduce it solely to an economic discussion. But you can say that, as it is today, there is a 100 per cent. If we have to talk like this in pure financial terms, if a municipality closes a school. And there we now give both parents on the island and a parent company the opportunity to have some more tools in the drawer in terms of being able to create and take the initiative to create a school offer. This applies, among other things, to: on Fejø, where they have actually wanted to make a branch of a school on the mainland. And I do not think that, as a Parliament, we should tighten our ground so that good sustainable solutions can be found locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102629	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102633	I would like to stress once again that we fully recognise the intention of the government's proposal. That is also why we have indicated that we would be happy to vote in favour of it if we were to respond to the concerns of the small islands. Therefore, when the Minister says that she is sorry that Enhedslisten and the other two parties that are co-sponsors do not want to help the small islands, can we not say that if you want to help the small islands, it is natural to accommodate the views of the Association of Danish Small Islands, in other words, to accommodate them when they say that if you implement the government's proposals unchanged, there is a very great risk of closing up primary schools? Could it be said that aid to the small islands would be best given by meeting their needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102729	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102731	I have to say, there's a difference. This is also clear from the report. The Danish People's Party points out in the report that one would like there to be an extra subsidy. It is clear that such a thing must be financed, but if the extra grant does not materialise, one will continue to support the proposal because one can see that there are a large number of advantages in the proposal both when it comes to ensuring that there can be a school offer at Fejø and when it is actually about ensuring that there can be a good framework for a school offer at Fur. That's probably where the difference is. It is in that you will always have everything instead of looking at whether you cannot actually ensure some good conditions, even if Enhedslisten might have intended to go further. There I think it is a pity that Enhedslisten chooses to take the approach that you will not be able to support a school offer at Fejø and support a good framework for the free school at Fur, if you cannot get it through one hundred percent, which has exactly been the wish of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102823	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment. Is that a mistake? Is it also a mistake that Mr. Henning Hyllested wants the floor? No, that's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102835	Yeah, it's okay. It is true that there are, of course, a number of objective factors which mean that schools are closed down. It is not just on the small islands, but it is very much on the small islands, not least because of the decline in the number of children. But it is also true that the bill opens up the possibility for parents to invest in free schools, whereas Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti's amendments are more committed to providing an economic incentive to maintain the primary school offer. In fact, there is a request from the Free School Association, or whatever it is called, which points out that they are not interested in coming in and replacing the primary school offer. Free schools are, of course, schools, at least originally, which are created on the basis of a special basis to run them on ideological, religious, or whatever it may be, and not to go in and replace the primary school offer. That is what we must, after all, bet on the municipalities to try to maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102944	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114102945	We must therefore make a great effort to ensure that the municipalities not only maintain a school offer but ensure that there are good conditions on the small islands in Denmark. I have seen this in the eyes of all the parties of the Danish Parliament. This is also some of the basis for it, instead of being the ordinary key to what a municipality has to pay to a free school, being a completely different key we now have here, so the municipality, unlike the national average, pays 100 per cent. It is precisely to ensure that there is no economic speculation. I have not really experienced that there is one of the parties of the Folketing that is not interested in us keeping alive not only the rural areas but also the small islands. What this proposal specifically goes in and does is to make it possible, for example, for them to do so. At Fejø, where the municipal school is closed, can set up a branch of a free school. Do you want us to set foot for that? I don't think we should. And I think it is a pity that Enhedslisten will not vote in favour of the bill. It is also quite specific and ensures better conditions for existing free schools in the small islands, and it is extremely important for the free school in Fur that they do not run the risk of falling below critical pupil numbers because a family is moving from the island or because there may be a simple vintage where the number of pupils is declining but gets an exception from the general rules. I think that is actually a good solution to some very practical problems on some of our small islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103104	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103106	Enhedslisten has nothing against there being good school offers, but it does not matter what it is for some school offers. Does the Minister not agree that municipalities should, as far as possible, and should also be given financial incentives to maintain a good primary school offer? It's the general school offer, you could say, we offer in this community. It must also be offered to the inhabitants of the small islands, rather than bet on it being a privatised enterprise in the form of free schools or branches of free schools. That is really what this is about, and I think it is a little strange that we have a minister who does not rely on the primary school offer, which should be the municipal offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103154	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103155	I know that it is Enhedslisten's favorite discipline to attribute views to other parties they have never had. Neither the government nor any other party has I heard, and it is neither at first reading nor committee reading, that it is not about ensuring good conditions for municipal schools in the small islands. I think we all agree on that. However, what we have seen over a number of years is that there are a number of municipal offers on the small islands that have been closed for various reasons. And if you do not take the initiative to secure, among other things. good conditions for the free school on Fur and among other things. the possibility that they can maintain a different type of school offer on Fejø, and if you do not go in with a bill and ensure that there is not just a full financial gain, but that, if there are parents who take matters into their own hands, there is a 100 per cent. payments from the municipalities, so I actually think that the developments we have seen over recent years will continue. Now, in fact, I think that the majority of the parties in the Folketing go into detail and look at how we can actually help to solve some problems in the small islands and how we can help to support both the maintenance of municipal schools and the fact that where this is then not possible, there are some more opportunities for parents to be able to maintain a school offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103304	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Nicolai Amstrup, the alternative, who wants to give a rapporteur's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103316	We think that L 63 has been through a very beautiful committee procedure. The parties have approached each other, and consideration has also been incorporated in L 63 of what is called an economic incentive to maintain elementary school provision in the islands. We are not in the amendment, and we are not for a few reasons, which I would just like to outline. Firstly, we think that we would like to sign that L 63 has been through a positive committee procedure and that all round has been listened to. Furthermore, we do not believe that municipalities should be so suspicious that they should act solely on the basis of financial incentives. As compensation has been incorporated into the proposal, L 63, the financial incentive to close down a primary school on an island has become much smaller. There, too, we believe that the municipalities in general are sure that they will not close off well-functioning public schools on the islands. We also have a concern about the funding provided for in the amendment, where the money to go to the proposed extra grant must be taken from the free schools. This means taking the money from school offers and giving it to the municipalities, but without really guaranteeing that the money goes to schools or education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103508	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103512	Is Mr. Nicolaj Amstrup is aware of it, as Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj pointed out in Enhedslisten's rapporteur's speech, namely that one can probably expect to be expected and I do not think one needs to look in the glass ball, because I think there is a general expectation that the municipalities will come under enormously increased economic pressure, even if they are already under pressure? Of course, one can take the view that the municipalities have the best intentions, and that is what we believe in in the Enhedslisten, but an economic reality where they are under intense pressure, surely says that they will then of course also start to find economic solutions to the problems. That is what reality has shown so far. And if economic pressure is maintained and intensified in the years to come, we can expect that the good intentions of the municipalities cannot be fully fulfilled because of the economic reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103611	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103614	Of course, we are aware that in the coming years the municipalities will also be under greater economic pressure. We believe that this has also been taken into account in the proposal as it stands, with the compensation of 100%. So we believe that this has been dealt with here in the proposal and that a compromise has been reached which takes account of the elementary school provision on the islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103646	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103648	Of course, it is also about what a school offer is. And there is no doubt that today there are many good free schools that have great offers. But is Mr. Nicolaj Amstrup agrees that it is somewhere an obligation for a municipality to make available a primary school offer, that it is a priority and that the amendment that now lies, from Enhedslisten, SF and Dansk Folkeparti, is, after all, aimed at providing an additional grant for the municipalities to then choose as far as it is possible to offer a primary school offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103731	Sir. Nicolaj Amstrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103732	I can see the intention in the proposal, and so do I. We also want the municipalities to offer sensible public schools, including on the islands. We are sure that they will do so to the extent possible, and we do not believe that, with the change in the economic incentive already in L 63, the municipalities will dismantle well-functioning primary school provision in the islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103804	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103809	I'd like to ask, sir. Nicolaj Amstrup on an assessment of how the municipalities are handling school costs at the moment. Now that on several of these islands there is a school cost today in the region of a few million kroner and you will be able to cope with school operations by giving a DKK 700,000 800,000. instead of a subsidy from the state, Mr. Nicolaj Amstrup saw that a municipality that is really out to find the last crown would not be tempted to fetch a million savings by closing a primary school and thus tell the parents that they are then responsible for running the school business further through a branch of a free school if they think it is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103858	Thank you. Sir. Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103859	As a general rule, we do not think that the municipalities are interested in closing these school offers. If it is a well-functioning school offer, we are sure that the municipalities will maintain it. Nor do we believe that it is purely financial incentives that drive a municipality to close a public school offer. We think that there are already so many positive measures in Amendment No L 63, and that so much has been heard about the parties widely that we can support that proposal without the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103940	Here you go, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114103944	In our assessment of the case, we have listened a lot to the Association of Danish Small Islands. In fact, it is our concern that the school at Fur can continue as a free school. We have nothing against this, but we think it is bad if it happens at the expense of school provision in other islands, and that is why we have the approach to it, that we can secure the other islands, so we are happy to vote in favour of the overall proposal. But what I'd like to hear, sir. Nicolaj Amstrup about, is: What makes the alternative not share the concern of the Association of Danish Small Islands? However, it was obvious to listen to exactly those who live on the islands that have school offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104031	Here you go, sir. Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104033	I fully agree with Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj in that we must of course listen both to the Association of Danish Small Islands and to the rest of the hearing responses. We think we have done the same. That is why we also find it a pity if the Enhedslisten does not wish to support L 63, as it stands, as we believe that L 63 in itself creates so many positive opportunities for school provision in the Danish islands. It is good that the proposal has also incorporated a consideration of Fur. This is one of the positive aspects of the committee's work which we believe should be endorsed, and we should therefore vote in favour of L 63, as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104119	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104128	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF, EL and SF) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (DF, EL and SF), against 71 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104228	The debate is open. It is first Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104317	In Denmark, we are in many areas a leader in digital communication. Regardless of age, the vast majority of us have switched the stationary phone out with the mobile phone, and both citizens, businesses and the public sector are becoming more diligent and diligent users of mobile services. Radio frequencies, which are a scarce resource, must be careful to make the best use of them. It is essential for us to have a successful use of digital solutions, for our mobile networks to have the necessary capacity and for this to be done properly and effectively for the benefit of society. The central point of the proposal we are debating now is that it allows us to make use requirements when there is an auction of frequencies. It is crucial that we develop our digital infrastructure and therefore we will be absolutely sure that the frequencies are also used as intended. A usage requirement ensures at the same time that companies cannot purchase frequencies for the purpose of keeping competitors out of the market. This helps to ensure that the frequencies auctioned are used in the best possible way. The bill also repeals the law on the auction of licences for third-generation mobile networks because it is simply no longer applicable. In addition, the proposal also implies that the rules in force, which allow the exclusion of an operator from an auction or a tender procedure, cannot be circumvented. This may be the case in cases where a company which has been excluded from an auction is subsequently authorised by a strawman or another company which has participated in that auction. Basically, the legislative proposal must ensure healthy competition and efficient use of radio frequencies for the good of society. We in the Socialists are concerned that there is good coverage across the country, and the proposal helps to create a better framework for spectrum provision and thus better opportunities to bring everyone along. That is why the Socialists can support the proposal. And I must inform you that the SF also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104542	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104603	Thank you. The primary objective of this draft law is to ensure efficient and effective use of spectrum for the development of digital infrastructure. In this way, it will be possible, among other things, to do so. avoid the acquisition of frequency permits in order to keep competitors out of the market. The draft law also proposes, inter alia: the repeal of certain inappropriate provisions relating to auction and public procurement in the radio spectrum law. Digital developments with increasing use of mobile services and the need for increasing volumes of data, etc. reinforces the need for efficient use of radio spectrum, which is a scarce resource, as they are essential for the use of digital solutions by citizens, businesses and the public sector. The Danish People's Party therefore welcomes this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104659	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114104706	I believe that everyone who follows developments in the field of telecommunications, in the field of broadband, will have to re-evaluate their perception of the speed with which things are going. Technology is developing at an furious rate, and fortunately for that, because it means that as consumers and as a society we can make use of even more digital services and that we are seeing competition to provide broadband connections and mobile connections to citizens. It is clear that when we are dealing with a button resource, as spectrum is, we cannot just let everyone send everything out everywhere, because it has to do with influencing other signals. Therefore, it is fairly regulated which frequencies can be used. But it is the case that we have a good principle at home that when there are available frequencies, then the companies that are interested can register and say that there is a free frequency here that they would like to use for some purpose or other. After all, we are not interfering in what purpose it is. We leave it to the market and to the entrepreneurs and to the innovation that is, to find out what the market, those with their finger on the pulse, assesses the frequency in question can best be used for. That is why, as a starting point, if there are no more people on the field, you get your frequency at virtually no money. Of course, you have to pay some current frequency charges. But when there is a shortage or where there are more who bid, we keep auctions on the basis that this is the best way to distribute the resource, instead of sitting here and assessing in great detail what is best. We usually make some cover requirements in this area. Those who are willing to honour the politically determined demands must then bid, and whoever offers the highest wins. But, of course, there is a problem if you can just pull the frequency permissions home and put them in the desk drawer of a company. Now I have rounded the decade as a telecommunications rapporteur and remember from the past that we sat and looked at the spectrum policy framework mandate every year. And there it was in all modesty that I suggested that we should have such an anti-hamstring clause to prevent existing players from simply seeking it every time there was a free frequency and putting it in the drawer, thus preventing competition and new players from joining the field and new ideas about how the frequency range in question could be used. That, then, is what we are now making even more firm legislation, and when you have proposed it yourself, you should be a dungeon if you were not really happy that it is also included in the legislative proposal we are now debating. Similarly, in order to promote competition, we have also ensured that, when there are more people who are interested in certain frequencies, there may be players who, in the interests of competition in the market, we say that we are keeping out of that auction in order to ensure that competition is strengthened in the best possible way. And, as has already been said here in the Chair of the Socialist Group's rapporteur, it is of no use that the person concerned, who is excluded, should be able to access the frequencies that we have said, from the point of view of competition, by means of a strawman or by other means. Finally, the legislative proposal repeals the law which, as has already been mentioned, previously regulated the third generation area, because it is now regulated within the general framework law, and that is why we do not need specific legislation in this area. Basically, it is a very good proposal aimed at ensuring competition in the telecommunications market, and we have every reason to support this, because the opportunities are enormous, technology is developing rapidly, and we must, of course, ensure that the optimum framework is made available so that we can fully exploit the potentials that exist for the benefit of us as a society, but certainly also for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105119	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105131	Also Enhedslisten supports that there will be a usage requirement. I have looked into the bill here and wondered why it is not more comprehensive, because it is fine that some demands are made that there should be a demand for use in connection with tenders, but for the consumer the most important thing is that there is mobile coverage throughout Denmark. This bill could have included whether there was no need to tighten up to ensure that there were higher coverage requirements. If this bill is not amended, then we will have to note that it is the full responsibility of the Minister, which is the level of cover that is, because it is part of the current legislation. That is where I am a little puzzled that when you change the law, you do not take along if there are no cover requirements that should be adjusted up. The reality we have in Denmark is that there are some outlying areas where you can best talk on mobile phones outdoors. There may also be some places where there is simply no mobile coverage and where it helps to create an insecurity that you, for example, have. can't call for help if you need it. There is a business sector that works worse if there is no proper mobile coverage. It seems to me that when one finds that the legislation in force is not enough to ensure proper mobile coverage throughout Denmark, then this should give rise to tightening up, and that is why I am a little disappointed that the legislative proposal is not more comprehensive. We are in favour of this requirement being applied to those who receive the licences, but we have to note that in fact there are places in the municipalities where something as basic as mobile coverage is not present, which gives citizens an insecurity, for example. in the municipality of Syddjur, when they are not sure that if they are outside their door, they can call an ambulance if they need it, but that they need to enter a home where there is a landline telephone in order that they can have a connection to the outside world. That is where the Minister, with the current legislation, has full responsibility. It is then a new minister who is responsible here. This should also give rise to fresh eyes on the matter and perhaps to the need to tighten up further. So I hope that the legal treatment of this bill will help to unfold whether we do not need to look more closely at the coverage requirement that could be associated with the granting of licences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105415	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105418	It is not, in fact, because we disagree that some of the frequencies that are particularly suitable for this need to be covered. However, I would just like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur to confirm that this is what we are doing at home. When there are frequencies that are suitable for this, we are actually imposing massive coverage requirements. I think that at the last auction we had, we made a coverage claim of 99.8%, and I actually don't think at the risk that Detector will catch me in some comma error that there are any other countries that have made such massive coverage demands. But this cannot be done in general legislation on the frequency range, because without it being particularly technical there is a difference between the frequencies for which it is suitable. But the reality is just and I hope that Enhedslisten will confirm that when we put frequencies on auction that are technologically suitable for it, we make that coverage requirement. We have done so many times over, and there is broad political agreement that we continue to do so. However, it is in the application of individual licences that we do so, and not in general because there are some frequencies which are also covered by the legislation, where it would be technologically very inappropriate to impose large-scale coverage requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105531	Well, I'm pretty sure there are areas in Norddjurs and Syddjurs where they don't feel like they're up to 99.8% coverage. I think that there is something to work on, because it has an important impact on life, tourism opportunities and business opportunities in the outermost regions, that there is something as basic as mobile coverage. And there it is important that we keep looking for better coverage. I think it is essential to discuss how we can ensure that this is done. It is quite possible that over time we have moved towards improving things. I just hear that there are some citizens who are not satisfied with the level there is. And that is why I think it is essential to continue this debate, so that we can have better mobile coverage throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105618	Torst Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105620	Well, basically, there's no disagreement. We want the same thing. We are doing what we have broadly agreed politically. We make massive coverage requirements, but we do that when the individual frequency is auctioned and we see what conditions are attached to it. And there I have to say that I have no memory that we have missed any chance of putting that coverage requirement on the table because we fully agree that it is essential that we ensure proper coverage. Because in the year 2016, you can expect to use your mobile phone anywhere in Denmark. We are in complete agreement on this. It's just like that and that's just what I'd like to get recognition from Enhedslisten that we do that when we translate it, but that it's hard to write in as applicable to all frequencies, as there are some where it's technically not very logical to do so. But we are in complete agreement on the political wish and we are delivering on it and we must.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105714	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105715	Well, then, I think it might be interesting in committee to delve deeper into this and try to get a description of why you don't have better mobile coverage in, for example. The municipalities of Syddjurs and Norddjurs. Are there any particular geographical reasons, or is it because there are some coverage requirements that should actually have been set higher? I think that this could be essential in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105740	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105749	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the bill, which we see as a market-based guarantee of better use of frequencies, in order to avoid monopoly conditions at unused frequencies. And we really think that it is a very good principle in general that if you record frequency, something should also come out of it at the other end. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105817	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105825	The alternative is that this proposal is being cleaned up and dealt with some problems that have apparently been on the market in this area, and that is why we are, as a starting point, in favour of the proposal. I can hear that, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has some concerns about the level of coverage, and I have them too, so if there is an opportunity and it makes sense in this committee work to look at whether we can get a higher coverage in this context, we will of course also take a positive view of it from the alternative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105907	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105914	While the rapporteur of the Left has a 10-year anniversary, it is my debut as rapporteur on telecommunications, and it is good that it is a perfectly clear proposal that we are dealing with today, when the Danish Energy Agency is allowed to make use requirements for frequencies that have been authorised after bidding or auction. And it is quite clear that it is a good idea that once you have got and won such a frequency, you should also use it and that you should not have the opportunity to buy it to keep competitors out of the market or hand it over to people who have actually been excluded. So we support this on the part of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114105950	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party present, so it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110010	Thank you. In Denmark twitter, googler, instagrammer and streaming on an increasing scale. We do it more and more from our mobile phones, tablets and other devices that use the mobile network. It therefore makes good sense to ensure that the radio frequencies to be used for it are used in the best possible way and it makes good sense to prevent the possibility of circumventing the Radio Frequency Act with the aim of restricting competition. The proposal contains, as we see it, three elements. First of all, there is the element of repealing the third generation mobile network auction law, as it is currently governed by the law on radio frequencies. We can, of course, fully support that part as a consequence change. This is, albeit to a modest extent, a simplification of rules, and we like that. In addition, the proposal contains two other elements. Thus, a legal basis is given to the Danish Energy Agency to establish a usage requirement for permits issued in connection with auction or tender procedures. It makes sense, of course, that we want to ensure that these permits are not put in a drawer and collect dust. I do not know if this is a major problem today. I have to be honest with you. That is not something I have been reminded of. But if it's something you want to do just to be on the safe side, then it's okay with us too. In the comments on the draft law, we can see that there is a requirement for use that there should be an obligation to use the authorisation within 1-4 years. Here we may have a slight fear that it may be too short a time frame and that it may prevent some from bidding, because it may actually mean that a potential acquirer must have made an investment in something perhaps expensive technical equipment before you even know if you are getting this authorisation. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether we cannot agree that this should not be the case, because everything else will limit the attractiveness of obtaining these permits. There's also a little bit of a leap in this with the 1-4 years. We will find a solution to that, but I would like to know whether the Minister shares the concern or whether it is just a concern that I have, because then perhaps there is no reason for it. With regard to the last point on the restrictions on the possibility of transferring licences to other operators, we understand the arguments to prevent circumvention of the rules in relation to these companies, but we again have some doubts as to whether this is really a major problem today, precisely because the market is as competitive as it is fortunately. We would, of course, like to stick to that. The comments on the draft law also indicate that it is envisaged that the Ministry's limitation on the possibility of transfer will typically have a duration of 2 years. Here the telecommunications industry is proposing that it might be possible to operate at a maximum. 2 years because it will remove part of the uncertainty that may arise among potential acquirers and that may ultimately harm competition and price. So it's just a few small technical concerns. I am sure that we can easily find each other during the committee work. But, as I said, we have a few concerns about these time limits. And that is both in terms of commissioning, but also in terms of handing over.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110348	Thank you to the rapporteur. We just walked up here. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, on behalf of the SF, has been positive about this proposal, I understand, and it should be noted. Thank you. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110406	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their positive comments on the draft law and the issues raised by the Conservative People's Party on time limits and transfer. This is something that I propose that we discuss in committee and, if there are any questions here, I suggest that we have a closer look at them in this context. As has been shown, the legislative proposal aims to ensure the efficient use of frequencies by inter alia: to provide for the possibility of establishing usage skills in frequency permits. In addition, the 3G Act is repealed as it has fulfilled its purpose. The proposal therefore envisages that the Danish Energy Agency may lay down usage requirements in frequency permits issued on the basis of an auction or an invitation to tender. Use requirements are important so that we can ensure that all frequencies are used and benefit society. In addition, provision is made for conditions to be laid down in permits not to be transferred for a period of time to those who have been excluded from an auction or invitation to tender in order to ensure continued competition on the telecommunications market. In addition, the auction and tender rules are adjusted so that they are adapted to the way in which auctions and invitations to tender are held today and the provisions that are no longer used are repealed. Finally, it proposes the repeal of the law on the auction of licences for third generation mobile networks, with the 3G licences administered under the radio spectrum law. The law is therefore no longer necessary. Overall, the amendments introduced by the legislative proposal will help us to make more effective use of the licences obtained by the companies by auction or by tender for the development of the digital infrastructure. This is important for citizens, businesses and the public sector's ability to use digital solutions. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110640	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110649	After all, it is a good thing that the Minister attaches importance to the efficient use of frequencies. But if you look at it from the consumer's point of view, it is the result, the good coverage, that is the focus. I would like to know whether the Minister does not see that in some places in Denmark we have the problem that, with the current use of frequencies, there are therefore a number of citizens who find that there is insufficient mobile coverage in their area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110713	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110715	I fully agree with the questioner that there are areas in Denmark where there is insufficient mobile coverage. It is something that is being worked on; it is something that is politically focused; and therefore it will also be crucial for the government that when these frequencies are to be offered in the future, counter-claims must be made for better coverage. That is clearly in our intention, and that is also what we intend to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110741	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110748	I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is a full coverage of which areas in Denmark currently do not have sufficient mobile telephony coverage. Because when you're going to work on these invitations to tender, you have a starting point for making demands and finding out what to go for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110803	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110805	We have a picture of what these are for some areas where cell phone coverage is poor. And there we will have a special focus on ensuring that there will be better mobile coverage when we are going to start offering these frequencies in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110818	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110841	The debate is open. It's sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114110859	Thank you. This is, to say the least, a long story. We have also had a long process of drafting concrete legislative proposals on top of the conciliation that we reached back in our reign last April. One might say that we have now reached an agreement that is about ensuring efficiency in the financial sector, saving 1.3 billion. kr. towards 2020, we must ensure a high level of environmental, service and security of supply, we must ensure less bureaucracy, both in the organisation of the water sector and in supervision, and we must ensure a better framework for technology development. There is no doubt that, for the Socialists, it is four intentions that are equal. In other words, it cannot be said that economic considerations are above the environment or anything else. We must be careful to make legislation that meets all four requirements. For us Social Democrats, it has been important that water supply is something we have in common. Our drinking water must not be managed according to a logic whereby maximum profits must be made for some private shareholders. Our drinking water must be protected, and we must be able to make tough environmental demands together and ensure that we all have a secure supply. But of course we want low water prices. We think it is quite natural that we regulate and demand efficiency. That is also why we made this agreement to save some money and ensure a more efficient water sector while we were in government. Sometimes, and that's why I dwell a little on this at first reading, you have the feeling that some parties can have a very one-sided focus on this with efficiency. I understand that in some parts of the sector they are a little puzzled that while we are making legislation on what we have adopted, namely saving 1.3 billion. kr., elsewhere in the government apparatus, some institutes and analysis agencies have been assigned to calculate how something more can be saved than what we have agreed. It is, as it were, moving the finish line after the race has started. I understand, of course, that some people are a little puzzled about this, and that is why I just want to say that our focus is on making things more efficient and living up to what we already agreed in April. That will also be the guiding principle for our treatment. I also think it would be a mistake to focus too unilaterally on short-term savings. In other words, it is important not to forget maintenance; it is important that we do not end up pushing a bill in front of us or tightening up so much that, so to speak, there is no room for the technological development which in fact also creates jobs for the future. That is the balance we have tried to strike in the conciliation, and it is also the balance that we are going to pursue in the legislative work here and which we have pursued throughout. It is the case that the Danish suppliers, if you like, the Danish companies in this area have a lot of wind in the sails of selling water technology solutions around the world. This means that there are plenty of engineers and 3Fs and metal workers who get jobs in Denmark because our companies are best in this area. And one of the reasons why they have become so good is that they have had the opportunity to cooperate with some of the municipal water companies. It can be said that this is the cooperation and opportunities that we must also ensure that this new regulation supports and preserves. It is an almost ungrateful task to have to go through all the points of such legislation here because it is so incalculable, but I would of course like to mention a few of the things that matter most. In other words, it is of course important that, when we make regulation and try to make an efficiency, we do so in the total economy, so that we look both at what you have of operating costs and what you have of investment costs. Because it is important that it is the long-term, right solution that you choose. It has also been important when we make a benchmarking exercise that we say both that there are general requirements for the water companies, but also that there is an individual benchmarking which means that some of the companies where there is the most to come after are therefore some of those who may not have been so far ahead on the bus yet will have a demand for further efficiency if there is actually a chance to get the money home. I also think it is a good thing that, when such regulation is made, we ensure that there is multiannuality in the price ceilings, so that the water companies themselves have the opportunity to hit the target in four years' time, but not every year, so that there is a possibility of having flexibility in the investments and efficiency that are being made. Then, of course, we also have a performance benchmark, which one might say is an expression of how well the water companies are doing on anything other than equal economy, i.e. security of supply, climate, health, the environment. And it is really important to have transparency about having these high standards. But it also says in the agreement that these high standards or this performance benchmarking are not directly linked to economic regulation. It is just important to say that when we have separated the exercise of authority and the municipalities may impose environmental requirements, it must of course also be reflected in the fact that you can get a higher settlement. Last but not least, we think it's important to focus on this total cost of ownership, i.e. to encourage the right choice. It is also included in the agreement, but there is still uncertainty about notices and guidelines. How do you ensure that people choose the pump that has a low water loss and low energy consumption and that lasts longer so that you don't have to dig up the road so often and make maintenance? In other words, how can we ensure that this is in fact the cheapest investment in the long term? At least in the committee's work we will also be discussing how to get it written in a notice, so as to ensure that it lives up to it, even though it may be difficult to make hardcore legislation requirements on what it is exactly it has to live up to. So standards are not always enough in benchmarking, we must also take into account some of those that are best. Then I have promised to salute from the SF and say that, as part of this conciliation, of course, they also support it, but indeed, like the Socialists, they will pursue some of these opportunities for technology development and technology management.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114111511	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114111518	Thank you. This bill translates the agreement reached by a very broad majority in the Folketing on 29 April last year on a new and improved regulation of the water sector in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party are very happy to be a part of that. The aim of the agreement is to create basically better framework conditions for the Danish water and wastewater sector, so that we can achieve as rational and safe a service as possible. This is among other things. The aim is that the new regulation should lead to improvements in efficiency in the sector, which will benefit Danes in terms of lower water prices. The new scheme for the water sector contains a wide range of elements, each aimed at improving the conditions of the water companies and providing incentives for rational operation. For example, companies are required to be more efficient, but the requirements are differentiated according to the size of the companies, so that the small companies are not burdened by excessive administrative requirements. In total, efficiency improvements are intended to yield a minimum gain of 1.3 billion. kr. in 2020. In addition, there are good opportunities to merge more water companies into larger entities if this is considered to provide economies of scale and a better framework for investment in the development and exploitation of new technologies in water companies. In the Danish People's Party we are happy to be part of the agreement and we look forward to being able as a society to reap the benefits of the improved framework conditions provided by the agreement. Therefore, the Danish People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114111645	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114111654	Thank you for that, President. In connection with the discussion of L 91, I can say that the Left will, of course, vote in favour of it. The draft law involves a number of changes in the financial regulation of water companies and of regulation affecting the management of water companies. The aim of the bill is to ensure that water and waste water supply is operated in an efficient way that is both transparent to the consumer and provides the lowest possible and most stable price. It will benefit all water consumers. There is a great deal of efficiency in the water companies, and we must, of course, achieve that. With this bill, we are precisely ensuring that the efficiency potential of at least 1.3 billion. kr. achieved by 2020. The potential for efficiency is achieved by reducing administrative burdens, more flexible rules for the organisation of water companies, differentiation of water companies' funding of the supply secretariat and the introduction of universal service obligations, the possibility for companies to set differentiated tariffs, and the possibility of setting up a private industry complaints board for consumers and businesses. With this legislative proposal, we will therefore come up with a large number of measures to meet the efficiency potential. It is the companies themselves who decide how best to make the efficiency improvements. The surplus must remain in the sector, and thereby consumers and water-consuming companies will all the other things equally achieve a lower water price. We must ensure a high level of security of supply, we must ensure clean water in the taps and we must ensure that consumers and businesses can dispose of their waste water in the best and cheapest way. On the basis of these words, I can say that I support the motion by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114111854	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114111900	Thank you. I would like to take the day to welcome the fact that Enhedslisten helped prevent us from privatising the water sector in Denmark. I think that is most welcome. There are frightening examples in the world where there are companies that take over the local water supply and where poor people subsequently experience water prices rising sharply. I think it is very good that we in Denmark have ensured that this is still a supply where we cannot simply turn up the profits and that we can continue the water sector that we have, where there is a great deal of focus both on providing clean drinking water to consumers and at the same time managing waste water in the best way environmentally. Then new demands have come as a result of this intense weather that we are experiencing in Denmark. This presents challenges in maintaining a drinking water supply; it presents even greater challenges in handling rainwater in large quantities, and it causes problems in some places in handling our waste water when we suddenly experience plenty of rainwater. There are some efficiency requirements that have been introduced now and that need to be implemented, and there is a great deal of focus on this. I hope that the focus on efficiency will not be so great that there is no surplus in the water sector to relate to the huge export opportunities that the Danish water sector has. I think it is so important that we are given room for our supply sector to help export the solutions in cooperation between the municipal and the private sector, so that we can spread out to the whole world, that we in Denmark have some good solutions for waste water management, and that we in Denmark have some good solutions for ensuring clean drinking water, and also solutions based on the fact that you do not have to clean your drinking water in order to be able to drink it. I think it is a little uncertain whether these efficiency improvements are so significant that they do not give the sector enough air to be able to have the vision of the future and the profits to be included in cooperation with private companies, so that we can export more waste water solutions and drinking water solutions. That's my concern about this coining of our water reconciliation. But we must follow this up in the conciliation circle, and we must listen to the sector to hear what concerns are spreading out there. There are a large number of consultation responses here, and you can see that the sector is somewhat concerned about what it is they will be faced with in the future. So we will follow it very closely in the Enhedslisten and focus on whether there are some inappropriate ways in which the settlement is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114112156	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114112206	As has already emerged from the debate, this is an extremely large and complex legislative proposal, a matter which has been going on for a long time and many will think too long along the way. But now this is being treated. The Liberal Alliance was not involved in the old conciliation and has therefore also not participated in the negotiations, with the exception of perhaps the setting meeting. This should not prevent us from signing for the clear improvements contained in the proposal. And, yes, it could hardly be otherwise, since the old law quickly turned out to be true in bureaucracy and could kill even the most persistent waterworks board. However, if we are not on guard in this matter, i.e. by this bill and by its implementation, it may well be a partial repetition with a lot of good intentions for efficiency. We have just heard about it and with a rewarding hope that we will have the reality that the politicians in here see. But there are a lot of middle bills before we get there, and what I fear the most is that bureaucracy will automatically take over. We believe, for example, that it is imperative for companies of less than 800,000 m3 to make sure that the accounts are adequate so that we do not leave it to the Supply Secretariat to decide when there are special conditions in place, which means that we must again spend all our time on reports rather than providing cheap water of good quality. That's what you want out there. We need to learn from the experience of the 2008 Act. If bureaucracy gets the right of definition, the piles of cases will rise and the regulations will continue out there. The cost of monitoring can easily appear out of proportion with the gain you hunt, especially in the small companies. And then I think that the competence should lie with the boards of directors and not with the municipalities, when the small works want to make changes in the operation, which may mean that the water becomes more expensive. In the Liberal Alliance we have more confidence in the local, responsible boards than in the djøfs, who sit at the town hall and cut everyone over a comb. There is something valuable and very Danish in the democratic elections to boards, and I do not think we should break that. When the efficiency requirement is then rolled out without taking into account individual circumstances, this means that the DJs in the Supply Secretariat actually say, figuratively speaking, that an anorexia patient and an overweight both should lose weight, let's say 10%. It is the efficiency, that is to say, to reduce the average weight by 10%. That is logically correct, but it is not certain that it is appropriate that the anorexia patient should also lose weight. This must be done better by using some of the data contained in the system so that more individual consideration can be taken into account. Another concern is that the large companies will tend to insource activities so that we communalise tasks that have previously been private. You can, for example. well imagine that one is tempted to establish one's own construction department, electrician department, and what do I know. I think we should do that in a visible way and perhaps measure it in some way, because I do not think it can be a bourgeois government that thinks it is fantastic that we should turn a lot of private companies around because it is now the public sector that is taking over. A little in the same sphere lies the possibility that the big companies will now find the opportunity to export it has also been said here from the platform to the large foreign country, as we have already seen in this law. For example, I have. here is an article that says that Aarhus Water will take the United States. Is it now appropriate for public funds to be invested in the large world? Of course you have to cooperate, but is this a public task? We do not believe in this, just as we are very surprised that the concept of unavoidable overcapacity can be used, a very important concept. Why is it not the private suppliers that are drawn upon if there is something inevitable, whereby costs can be made variable. It sounds extremely worrying to let public monopolies themselves define what is inevitable, and then they can get good ideas with what they would like to set in motion. I think the tracks are scaring. I am thinking here, for example. in the energy companies, when they have been out on the consumer's account in big billions of adventures that have later turned out to go really wrong. We do not need to repeat this in this legislation. The companies must, like, stand by their reading. With these concerns, I would like to say that the draft law is moving in the right direction, no doubt about it, but as it appears, we have some clear desires for improvements in the work of the committee and, of course, before we do the math, I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is any possibility that the Liberal Alliance might enter into the conciliation and, finally, I hope I can have some comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114112741	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114112748	When you ask the Danes what matters to them in the environmental field, there are many who say: clean drinking water. That's one of the most important things. It's like a baseline for life, no matter where you live in Denmark. We have a very special water supply in Denmark. We drink in the vast majority of places our groundwater virtually uncleaned, and that's how it's supposed to stay. We also have a very exciting sector that works well. The alternative is outside this conciliation work, but we've been watching the work and we think this is exciting. As we see it, in the round of this bill a lot of improvements have been made, but we are very concerned about one thing, and it is the balance between efficiency and getting the price down and all the other things, for example. development of new technologies, security of supply, environment and such things. That is why, from the outset, we are a little sceptical and a little concerned. We hear and read in the hearings that there is a concern about the relatively massive savings to be made across the board, and also about the fact that this demand has been raised from 1.3 billion. kr., we saw, because you have the 800 million. kr., which has already been reached and which needs to be added, is now talking more about 2.1 billion. kr. in savings. So we hope that in the committee work we can have a look at these things and perhaps also get a greater focus on the fact that there is a longer time horizon in the work. We hear from certain actors that there may be a tendency to save now and here, and then some problems arise later because they have not maintained it well enough. So we would like the focus to be more focused on the way in which waste water is worked in Denmark and especially on green technology development. So we are sceptical and directly opposed to the proposal because of the tough demands for savings, but let us look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114113028	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114113039	Then it's the day of the Water Sector Act, and in return I think I have the 8th anniversary in it. It is a rather complex and complex law and, like the Socialist rapporteur, I am not going to stand here today and go down in all the finer details of the conciliation we have made and which is being translated into this draft law that we are discussing today. On the other hand, I think it's worth talking about our water sector. Because, of course, we all have an interest in the fact that the water in our society is as cheap as possible so that citizens and our businesses do not have to pay anything unnecessarily. But we also have a very great interest in having a water sector that can do what it can in Denmark, and it is not so little that our water sector has to cope with. You have to be able to handle waste water in all kinds of shades, from water from hospitals to water from cities; you have to be able to cleanse the water and transport it around; and you have to be able to ensure that it turns into groundwater and that we can get clean water back up and clean water in our taps. You have to be able to monitor if there's a contamination coming all of a sudden. Some may recall that a few years ago there was pollution in one of the large plants on Nørrebro, and there it was very important that people in a particular area could be told quickly that they were not allowed to drink the water. Therefore, it is also a very exciting sector that can use new technologies very quickly, so that you can simply online measure water and see if there is a pollution somewhere and where it comes from so that you do not have to close off an entire city. It can be very expensive for companies and citizens if you are going to shut down an entire city because you do not know where the sources of pollution are. It is also the water sector that is currently helping us with one of our biggest problems, namely the new weather, where, because of climate change, we get much more rainfall at once in the same places. Here the water sector has begun to do something that I have not seen anywhere else in the world, namely that it can simply be seen with sensors and technology through DMI's measurements that there is now going to be rainfall in a particular part of the city, so that you can get the water away and into another part of the city where the sewage plants are ready for it. Many, many new, exciting solutions have been found for dealing with a very large rainfall like what we saw in Copenhagen in 2011 and as has been seen in Greve and many Jutland cities in recent years. So it is also a sector in which 17,000 get up every day and go to work and make sure that we have water in Denmark, but also in the rest of the world. For it is actually a sector that creates a great many jobs and which offers great export opportunities for Denmark. So, the fact that, like all the time, we have very high requirements and high standards, while also trying to keep prices at a reasonable level, must be the right approach. And that is what makes legislation in this area really, really difficult, because you always have to walk on two legs. That is why it is good that we have achieved quite a broad settlement and that we can find each other. On the one hand, perhaps more pressure has been exerted on savings, while on the other hand pressure has been exerted to ensure the development of technology, and I believe that with this bill we have taken some really important steps in getting in the right direction. There is one thing from the negotiations that I am still not entirely sure is clear in what we are legislating on today. It is all about the total cost of ownership, and it is therefore important for the Radical Left to ensure that when there is bought into the various supplies, you have a look that it may well be, it is one of the cheapest right now, but if in just 2, 3, 4 or 5 years it is the most expensive model, it is not certain that that is what you have to buy. Then it may be that you have to look at something that, during the lifetime of the plant or technology, will have a completely different and cheaper function for citizens. It is important that it is a sector that you can invest in so that you do not buy cheap solutions and wear it all down and those who have to pay the water bill in 5-10 years will then pay a higher bill. It is important that we get the right investment in our water sector. Unlike Enhedslisten, I think it's good to get some more professionalisation and more cooperation with some private people into this sector. It has, of course, been a difficult balancing exercise to ensure that it is still part of the public supply around, but that it, like, gets the dynamics and drives of the private sector and can help to create export and technology development. I think it is an exciting balance that we are about to find here, and instead of saying that we have taken the worst of both worlds, which I think some might think is that we have taken all the bureaucracy and not necessarily the private drive at the same time. I think that we are now getting to where we can actually get the public and the private to be in a really exciting interaction. For when Denmark can solve it and get the public and the private to work together, the Chinese listen because they have the public very far behind the handling of their water companies. So when our Danish companies come with the public in their hands, it is something that opens doors in China and makes it much better for us to sell our things to them. So I think that here we are developing something that is more exciting in the good way, and not so much on that, no, where is politics sometimes exciting-way. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114113534	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114113541	Thank you. While the previous rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken, has eight years of experience in this area, I think I have more than eight meetings' experience in this area. It is quite complicated matter, and I think I have experienced that too in the series of meetings we have had. Fortunately, this is a broad settlement and, as others have said, there have also been things that should be voted on in that process. But I think we have managed to find compromises where we find the balance in this very complicated area. So I would like to thank all the parties for this, but also the Minister who has led this work. The goal for us Conservatives has been to have simpler and simpler supervision to ease the amount of bureaucracy and administrative burdens. We hope that this legislation has succeeded, although we have also listened to the concerns that have been raised by parts of the industry. We insist on the objective of regulation leading to efficiency gains of 1.3 billion. kr., when we round 2020. We are also very much looking forward to following this new environmental performance benchmarking, where one is created, it has to be said, more transparent benchmark across the water sector. We hope that this can be a good tool, both for the water sector and, of course, for the municipalities as well. So we thank you for a good and constructive course and can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114113712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114113718	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments, and I would also like to thank them for the cooperation that has taken place in the conciliation circle. This bill, the entire water sector settlement was something that was made under the previous government. It was a very, very broad agreement that was to be implemented afterwards, and this is where I have been responsible for leading the coinage. But that would not have happened without good cooperation with the rapporteurs, and I would like to take this opportunity today to thank you for that. There are many considerations that need to be weighed down. The Conservative rapporteur mentioned this and it has not been an easy task, but fortunately it has succeeded. I would also like to thank you for the comments made by the Liberal Alliance. Something might suggest that we could have an even wider agreement if the Liberal Alliance would also join the agreement. But it is also true here that there are many considerations in this agreement and that many things have been weighed down. I can say that the prerequisite for entering into the agreement is to respect the agreement that lies where considerations are very much inclined towards each other. It has also been quite difficult negotiations in relation to bringing this into effect, but fortunately it has succeeded. Citizens and companies and institutions in Denmark are dependent on well-functioning supplies every day. This also applies to the supply of clean water and the disposal of waste water. The Danish water companies supply this product every day. We have a sector with high security of supply, high environmental and health standards and high ambitions to contribute to the development of water technology solutions for the benefit of Danish companies and jobs. We in the conciliation circle agree that water prices must be as low and stable as possible to the benefit of the competitiveness of companies and the public purse. In order to ensure this, we will continue to make demands on water companies for efficiency, and we will, because companies are natural monopolies without competition. Efficiency requirements ensure that consumers are not charged more money than necessary. It is already required today that the economy of water companies should rest in itself and that a ceiling should be set on the amount of money that water companies have to charge to consumers. However, there is still a significant potential for efficiency in the sector. The draft law here ensures that future efficiency is not limited to the operation of the companies, but that in future the companies will have to decide for themselves where the efficiency is best achieved in the overall economy of the companies. It has been crucial for the conciliation parties to ensure that efficiency is not wasted with unnecessary administrative burdens on companies. In addition, the draft law states that only the largest water companies will be required to report information in the future for the purposes of total economic benchmarking, and that in future this report will only be made every two years instead of each year. The smaller companies also need to be more efficient, but where they are now also subject to benchmarking, they will in future be freed from this and thus work on reporting the benchmarking, and evidence of compliance with efficiency requirements will in future be much simpler. The draft law provides for administrative relief totalling more than 10 million. kr. annual for the companies. As a new feature, the draft law states that in future there will be greater transparency and public accessibility, comparable knowledge about the influence of water companies on water companies, among others. environment, energy and climate. The efficiency of the sector must not go beyond the quality of our drinking water and the treatment of our waste water. The draft law here also gives water companies a number of new opportunities to contribute to the development of new Danish technological solutions for which international demand is high and increasing. The development of new and better technologies optimizes the operation of the companies, and the company's knowledge and experience are therefore important for Danish developers and exporters of the technologies. The draft law provides a better framework for the water companies' own investments in technology development and for their use of technology within the company. This means, for example, that companies will have better opportunities to use residues for energy production. I believe that there is a business decision that is best taken in the individual company when it comes to investing. In this context, I would like to call for companies not only to look at the price, but always to look closely at the lifespan of investments, energy efficiency and sustainability. That is common sense, and in order to support the companies in their deliberations we will provide guidance on this. It is a broad conciliation behind the draft law and it is broad considerations that are balanced in the proposal. The proposal balances all four principles we politically want to make clear for a continued strong water sector in Denmark: efficiency and low prices, as few administrative burdens as possible, as good a framework for technology development as possible and a continued high Danish level for both the environment, energy, climate, health, service and security of supply. I mean, the bill makes it all around. With these comments, I hope that Parliament will take positive action on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114339	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114348	Thank you. I would also like to begin by thanking the Minister for his cooperation and then signify that the Minister also mentions in his speech here the guidance on how to ensure that not the cheapest, but perhaps in the long term bad, investments can be made. What is stated in the agreement is that it includes the total costs, both energy consumption and maintenance, all those things that the Minister mentioned, but how do we measure it up to the Supply Secretariat's ability to approve individual investments? In other words, what I fear is if you are too standardized in your product ranking, because then some of those who are better than the standard will, in a benchmarking, so to speak, not be allowed to be more expensive, i.e. if you just assume the standard. So how do we ensure that balance so that we do not get short-term investments?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114447	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114450	This is one of the things the Supply Office will be working on. We are quite concerned that we ensure that there is also sense in the investments made in individual companies that it is not just a matter of ensuring a short-term economic gain. That is something of the balance we have been talking about in the discussions. This is precisely why we have chosen to do this, and it is also the reason for the political signals that have been sent out, including the signals that have been sent out from the sector and from the trade organisation to provide guidance on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114524	Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114527	Thank you. I think we can certainly agree on that too. I just wanted to flag this, because that is one of the things we are going to pursue in the committees, perhaps also with some questions on how to ensure that we land properly there. Then I would like to hear from the Minister about the further efficiency that has been described in the press, where it is said that we have now made a more effective benchmark and now we want to make reforms more effective. I think that people in the industry feel that they are making a lot of reforms and that things are going pretty fast right now. That is why I just want to know what the Minister's intention is if the minister has been in charge of this or what the government is thinking about these new reform considerations that will come before we actually finish the last reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114617	Thank you to the questioner. After all, nothing stands still, and neither does the water sector in Denmark. Now we are making a number of efficiency improvements towards 2020. There is also a period after 2020, which is why it is also my job as Minister to ensure that we have a sector, be it water, district heating, gas, waste, incineration, etc., which is as efficient as possible. That is why we are undertaking a work to see what opportunities will be created after this has been completed and we will come on the other side of 2020 to implement further efficiency improvements in all sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114652	Thank you, Minister. There's one more questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114658	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, I expressed some concerns about bureaucracy, and I am quite sure that if we rolled back to 2008, when we were given the last law, there were many of the same intentions for more efficient units, greater professionalisation and so on. And I'm worried that we can have a certain repetition. Now the Minister is quite right to say that it is only the big ones who have to report that I also think that half of it is going away, but how can it be that the bureaucracy is still growing in the Supply Secretariat? So, I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister not agree that if the tasks are reduced out there, bureaucracy must also be turned down centrally? Otherwise, it is like creating tasks for itself, and then we can find ourselves in a situation that is very similar to the one we are today, where new rules are constantly coming from bureaucracy. And they themselves, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, must define when these are special circumstances. I'm very worried that it's kind of growing on its own. In other words, the question is: if we are young people half the tasks out there, should we not also have to halve the tasks in the central administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114814	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114816	Thank you to the questioner. In fact, it is my clear opinion that this bill minimises the bureaucracy in the water sector, i.e. there will be less bureaucracy, less reporting, not least for the smaller companies. But it is also clear that we are dealing here with a new area, and that is why at least initially we need a supply secretariat that is able to handle that task and also have some eye to see that the efficiency agreed is implemented, that is to say that the companies are handling this task in a way that will allow us to get as low water prices as possible. That is why, at least for a start-up period, a secretariat of a certain size is needed. But it is also my clear intention that, along the way, of course, we should ensure that this secretariat is cut to and will be as effective as possible, and also that, when we look forward to the future, the costs will fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114907	Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114114912	When the companies get bigger, and we have to expect them to do so in the long run with this bill, there is also a possibility of undermining other tasks. There is a possibility that you want your own departments resourced in different ways with the bottom line that the public sector is growing. I myself mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that Aarhus Water will take the United States, in other words that the public must also export. My question to the Minister is: can the Minister accept such a development where we get a larger public sector by means of this legislation in this area, rather than we outsource more? And can the Minister imagine that it should be visible what tasks are going on, what tasks the companies are taking on, and what tasks they are trying to sell out in the big world? So you know what things are going to look like? when we now give these very large companies free rein to define many of their own tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115026	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115029	For the government, it is crucial that it is the business community in Denmark that operates the business activities in Denmark. This bill allows companies to contribute to a certain extent with technology development beyond Denmark's borders. I think that is quite reasonable. There may be good sense in private companies going out with the water companies and showing what we can out there in the big world. But running the company and producing the products is the responsibility of the private sector. The draft law here gives clear guidelines on what companies must be involved in, that is, what water companies must participate in and what they must not participate in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115108	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. This means that the proposal goes to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115139	The debate is open. This is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115145	After all, electrical products have become an important part of our everyday lives, which is why it is also crucial that the rules are updated so that consumers can be comfortable using electronics. The legislative proposal implements a number of EU directives which mean that the rules on the sale and use of electrical products, which can often be quite incalculable, are now being standardized throughout the European Union. And we basically think that's good. It should be stressed that the draft law here does not go beyond what is required by the European Union. We want to help ensure the best conditions for Danish companies, which is why we think this is the right way to do it. This means that better conditions of competition are created across EU countries, and this is beneficial for Danish companies. This also makes it a little easier for companies when the rules are understandable and when it is clear what responsibility they have. The Socialists can support the proposal, and I must say from the SF that they believe the same as the Socialists and also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115251	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115301	Thank you. This bill is about laying down and clarifying rules for the use of electronic appliances, radio equipment and fixed installations, and that can be done, among other things. be appliances such as: Microwave ovens, vacuum cleaners, television sets, baby alarms and many other things, but they can also be larger plants such as these. milking facilities, etc. The draft law states that the aim is to make it easier to understand and comply with the rules, and we must say that this is a worthy purpose. The draft law implements three EU directives, and for a DF it is usually something that makes the alarm bells ring, that is, when it comes to EU directives being implemented in the legislation. However, as I read here, it is to a large extent merely a continuation of the existing legal situation, trying to reflect the new structure in directives where the framework is clearer. And that is quite positive. One of the things I would like to highlight in the draft law, which is good, is that a clarification of the role and responsibilities of operators is being made. Among other things, you get... In the end, it is the distributor who has a little less responsibility than the others, which is quite positive. It is also clear from the proposal that radio equipment, apparatus and fixed installations must not, of course, interfere with other products so that they cannot be used, and that therefore makes a great deal of sense. It's hard to imagine a situation where you set up a baby alarm to hear if the baby is crying, and every time you turn on the microwave, the baby alarm doesn't work anymore. It is clear that there must of course be a framework so that you are sure that they do not disturb each other. So all in all I can say here in conclusion that we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115456	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115503	Thank you. After all, the key issues covered by the draft law have already been described. These are three EU directives. And I think I can say to Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær's reassurance that this is to a large extent what we have to call the internal market, that is to say uniformity, in terms of how products are approved and that we ensure that the market operates sensibly. This is, after all, a little in line with the discussion we had during the previous draft law on spectrum. This is a bit on the same ball street when it comes to radio equipment and electromagnetic conditions. We should not all run around with a silver hat on our heads and fear that when the mobile phone rings, the microwave goes off and other funny things you could imagine if there is no guarantee that the products meet the standards that are and do not interact with each other. So it makes great sense to implement those directives and this bill. As has been said, it is of course also a question of ensuring that the competitive situation is strengthened and that there will be a uniform possibility of control by both traders and producers, regardless of how they have chosen to organise themselves, so that of course it is also possible to look at the things we want. So it makes really good sense. The Left supports the bill, and I have promised to welcome it from the Conservative People's Party and to announce that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114115623	Thank you for that, and I shall now postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00. It's just a lunch break.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130009	We will resume the sitting and we have reached Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130019	Thank you. It is L 92 that we are discussing and I can say that the Enhedslisten is in agreement with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130027	Then it is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130035	Thank you. The legislative proposal is the implementation of three EU directives which make it easier to act across borders and thus be part of the internal market, and that is something that we in the Liberal Alliance think is very good about European cooperation. The implementation of this does not unduly tighten the screw in relation to the content of the EU directives, and we think that is very good too. What is being done is to clarify the framework for the sale and use of electrical and electronic equipment. This will simplify the rules, and we think that is a good thing. So all in all, we think it is a fine bill and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130129	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130135	Thank you. This is the implementation of three directives, and I have looked at the hearings and found no reason to comment critically. So the alternative supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130156	Thank you. Secondly, it is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130203	Today we are dealing with L 92. It has been examined a few times what is in this proposal, however, a rather superficial review, but since it is three EU directives that we are implementing, and the political discussion has very much gone ahead, not least in the work you do when making the directives, and since none of the interested parties around have found reason to protest about the way in which it has been implemented in Danish legislation, it is clear that there is not so much to discuss today. So the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130240	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130246	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. There are indications that we can bring together a united Parliament here. As has been shown, the purpose of the draft law is to lay down the framework under which operators may sell and users may use appliances, radio equipment and fixed installations. The draft law must ensure that, for example, radio equipment and apparatus shall be designed in such a way that they do not interfere with other products so that they cannot be used. In addition, radio equipment shall not endanger the health and safety of users. The presence on the market of appliances and radio equipment which do not comply with the rules must be avoided, both for the sake of consumers and for the sake of fair competition between economic operators. The draft law implements three directives in this area. The draft law does not contain requirements that go beyond the EU framework. As a new feature, it is proposed that the Danish Energy Agency may include or receive an apparatus or radio equipment from e.g.: a manufacturer or importer where there is a particular reason to examine the products further. It will also allow the supervision of products traded by Internet shops. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today. I look forward to the continued discussion on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and I hope that the House will approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130431	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130454	The debate is open. And this is Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130508	Thank you. On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to expand the energy supply with renewable energy. We believe that green energy is the way forward and, just last month, at the Paris Summit on Climate Change, we also received a global agreement which emphasises that the future is green. Fortunately, we are well ahead here in Denmark, but the leadership does not come by itself. That is why we must continue to develop modern environmental and climate-friendly energy sources. This is common sense both for the climate and for the bottom line, because Danish companies actually deliver solutions in world class. In other words, we have shown that we can choose a path that is both green and at the same time means growth and jobs. That is why we must keep the level of ambition high rather than cutting back, as the government unfortunately is doing now. The case here is a case that has been a while along the way. In Denmark, we are doing it so that the PSP helps to finance the expansion of renewable energy. This is considered by the European Commission to be discriminatory against foreign electricity producers because the electricity they produce and sell in Denmark is charged to the PSP while they do not benefit from the aid scheme financed by the PSP. The proposal for a pilot offer that we are discussing today is therefore a way of giving foreign electricity producers the opportunity to bid on part of the solar pool that is now being put out to tender. It is therefore a temporary solution to the problem. Specifically, we offer 20 MW and allow foreign producers to bid 2.4 MW. Although the consultation process has been a little bumpy in that the draft law has had to go through two hearings, it is positive that the draft law is addressed and that it has listened to previous consultation responses. It makes sense that the legislative proposal is in such a way that it aims at competition, so that consumers can get the lowest prices, and that we can continue to receive PRS funds for the green development of energy. It is also sensible to have a mutual cooperation agreement, which I understand is also being worked on. Then we will have to find a more permanent solution to the PSP for 2017 and beyond. In this respect, I hope that we will soon have the part of the grant and tax analysis that is about the PSO. Then it is also important for us in the Social Democratic Party that we continue to secure a broad majority in the green area, just as we do today. So when the Minister announces in advance that he does not need the entire energy conciliation circle to make a permanent or long-term agreement on the PSP, it is of course a pity. When it comes to something as important as the financing of the green transition, we must go for a broad consensus. It is also very important for green investment in the future. But here and now we have found a good temporary solution for the PSP, which takes account of the European Commission's objections. The Social Democratic Party therefore supports the proposed bill. I have also promised to welcome both the SF and the Radical Left and to say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130806	Thank you. And so it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130814	Thank you. The bill here introduces the requirements that the European Commission has made for its temporary approval of the Danish PSP system for the years 2015 and 2016. The reason is that the Commission has rejected the Danish renewable energy aid scheme, the so-called PSO system, as being discriminatory against foreign renewable energy producers. The Commission has requested the current scheme to be changed from the entry into 2017, but has accepted that the scheme in its current form will continue until the end of 2016 with the adjustments introduced by this bill. In the Danish People's Party we find it quite unreasonable that the Commission has interfered and overruled the arrangements for the PSO system which a very broad majority in the Folketing has decided and which have been introduced by law. For us, this process underlines that the European Union has far too much power when it has the right to overrule fully democratically adopted legislation in a Member State. Because of the Commission's decision, we in Denmark will shortly have to set up a new PSP system which will replace the current system from next year's change of year, but we are already dealing first with the legislative proposal which introduces the requirements that the Commission has put forward to temporarily accept the existing PSP system. In concrete terms, this bill will provide 20 MW of solar cells, of which 2.4 MW will also be offered in a neighbouring country to which Denmark has an electricity connection. Denmark has thus complied with the Commission's requirements. In the Danish People's Party, we have supported the implementation of this temporary arrangement as part of the energy reconciliation circle, so that the current and well-known PSP scheme can continue until a new scheme enters into force in 2017. And on that basis, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114130953	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131000	Thank you for that, President. In the context of the examination of draft law L 93, the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal, and I shall begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. The draft law provides a basis for Denmark to implement a temporary solution to the potential problem of discrimination in relation to the Danish PRS system, as the European Commission has pointed out. The temporary solution was a prerequisite for the approval by the European Commission of State aid schemes for solar cells and household wind turbines in autumn 2014. With this bill, we ensure that Denmark meets its obligations under the agreement concluded by the previous government. With regard to finding a long-term solution to the problem of discrimination with the European Commission, this is running on a separate track. The long-term solution shall apply from 1 January 2017 at the latest. On the basis of these facts, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131113	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131119	Thank you. We agree with the Danish People's Party that it is untimely for the EU to interfere in how we develop our renewable energy in Denmark. If this is to be the case, and since this is the case, it has to be said that this is a way of trying to deal with it during a transitional period with which we must then try to live. I have some critical comments to make on what is not included in this bill. For now it is being proposed that a supply of these 20 MW be carried out, and it is of course very important what kind of tender is chosen for example. chooses that there should be enough time for more players to get ready to bid. There are some critical comments on this in the consultation answers that I do not think have been properly answered because it is simply referred to as not being dealt with in the detail of this bill. However, I do think that this is important about the time schedule and the way in which tenders are chosen. I also think it is important to note what trends have been in recent times, and it is in this way that large solar installations are put up on agricultural land. A plant of 80 ha has just been set up at Kalundborg. In other respects, the government is very zealous in increasing the agricultural area, and then you see a solution where you take 80 hectares of agricultural land and use it to set up solar installations. I do not think that is the best solution. There are so many roof surfaces in Denmark that it is quite obvious that we use the roof surfaces for solar installations. I fully understand that there are some places around the country where there is an expansion of decentralised cogeneration and where you have solar collectors set up on the ground and thus arrive at an energy supply where you take advantage of the sun. However, as far as solar cells are concerned, I think the most optimal thing is that we use roof surfaces in Denmark. I also think it is important that this procurement process is handled in such a way as to allow for the use of roof surfaces. It may be housing associations, it may be shop chains, it may be municipalities, it may be larger sports facilities, it may be agricultural buildings that have roofs that are suitable for it. That is why it has something to say about whether one chooses a form of supply in which one envisages that it can just be a few mega-size plants set up on the ground, or one lays up for a form in which, for example, it is. may be larger housing associations that establish it in a number of departments, or store chains that across the country take their shops and say: Now we want as many solar cells as possible on our rooftops. So there are, in fact, some things that are not included in the draft law and that I would like to comment on. I think it is important that it is implemented in a way that will enable us to achieve better solutions than just having it on an area of some farmland and involving agricultural land for solar cells. I do not think that would be the best solution. So I think that in committee we should have the opportunity to discuss what the tendering process will be, following on from this. And if the Minister thinks that it should be taken in the energy conciliation circle instead, I am quite open to that being where we are taking the discussion and trying to find a good solution. I think it is important that we get more players on the field who can own these solar installations and that we look carefully at what this is for an expansion of renewable energy, which is most optimal in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131450	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131455	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is of the opinion that it is a good idea to embark on a form of supply in which the market determines the amount of the subsidy. We also note that attempts are being made to make as few demands as possible in the organisation so that a sharp price can be obtained. In fact, I have no doubt that a great deal will also be done in the field of solar cells, and we actually believe very much in this technology. However, we have a concern and it is about the fact that if, for the sake of the European Union, we are now going to start a whole new support regime, which means that Danish support crowns must go to foreign tenderers, then we have come out on a sloppy level • let me put it this way. Danish consumers pay generously in PSO, which has exploded in recent years and has blown up every conceivable budget. Should we now also give foreigners these forced taxes from Danish citizens? I'm just asking. Is that really the principle we are setting out? Now these are small numbers in this situation, but you can imagine the wind farms at 10-15 billion. kr. kr., maybe 2.5 billion. kr., we send abroad. There must be a solution to this in the draft law. We also see that, like pre-discounts, a future permanent solution, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. It is therefore temporary and, if it does not succeed, it will be subject to the Finance Act. There's been a lot of discussion about this with the PRS in the Finance Act. I think it is important to stress that the fact that the tax is included in a state law rather than collecting it on the electricity bill does not make it less discriminatory. In other words, state aid is not being reduced by the inclusion of the tax in the Finance Act. Then we also see some problems in how we should actually, in other words physically, be able to prove that we are talking about imports, because there has to be. I don't know how to separate the current in a wire like that and find out what's coming from there. So my proposal is actually that we stop all these many invitations to tender until we have clarity. I think it's too much of a risk to take. Let's get some clarity about what we can and must do in this area before we start any more projects, even if they're small numbers in this case. There will be Krieger's Flak later, and so it is a lot of billions that we are talking about sending abroad. So for that reason and also for many other reasons, I think we in Denmark could use a break in this subsidy regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131752	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131759	I have just seen a study showing that it seems that Swanson's law is going to keep the one who says that the price of solar installations is going to be 20 per cent. down for each doubling of capacity installed. And this is a good development because we need more solar energy in Denmark, both solar and solar, and we need to continue to help it along the way until Swanson's law takes over and makes it market-clear, so it makes it competitive in relation to the existing technologies. The alternative, as a starting point, supports this proposal because we get more solar energy out of it, and we need that, we need it in our energy system. This way, of course, we can have some reservations about. We have heard from the industry that it is a pity to be in the situation of having such a stop and go effect all the time: when will the next portion of money come? And then you have to be quick, and then you have to bid in, and then, you know, the money's spent up. It is a pity that it has to work in this way, but I can see that it is needed for a transitional period until we find a new PSP system. I am thinking in relation to the PRS scheme, which we have to adjust according to the EU's request, that if we are going to do so in Denmark, our neighbouring countries should also do so on similar arrangements, because in this way the money we are going to send out of the country will have to come in the other way that Danish companies can offer to solve tasks. So I hope that we will find a good solution to a new PSP scheme and the alternative will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114131959	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Thus it is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114132008	Thank you to the President-in-Office for that. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception of this bill. I look forward to the debate in committee. As has been shown, the bill must authorise a pilot offer of price surcharges for electricity produced on solar installations with a total installed power of 20 MW, of which 2.4 MW can also be won by projects outside Denmark. The bill is intended to ensure that Denmark can implement the temporary solution to the PSO problem, which my predecessor on the post of Minister for Energy and Climate Affairs agreed with the European Commission, and which was a condition for the Commission's approval of the support for, among other things. solar cells, household wind turbines, experimental mills at sea and Horns Rev 3. With the partial opening of the pilot call for projects in at least another EEA country, Denmark will remedy the potential discrimination identified by the European Commission in the Danish PESO system. The draft law thus helps to ensure that the European Commission can consider the Danish PSP system to be compatible with the Treaty in the years 2015 and 2016. This is the first time that an offer of aid for electricity, for solar installations, is being made in Denmark. The draft law provides the necessary authority to organise the tender, conclude contracts with the winning tenderers and subsequently grant a price surcharge on the basis of the contracts. The law will only be put into effect and the pilot tender will therefore only be possible once the European Commission has approved the tender. The offer will be held in 2016, and the price surcharge will not be paid until 1 January 2017. I welcome the interest that Things has shown in the proposal and I look forward to continuing to benevolent in dealing with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114132226	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114132304	The debate is open. The rapporteur for the Socialists, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114132317	Thank you. This bill, which deals with the parental responsibility law, is not about all children in Denmark, and it often does when we deal with exactly that legislation. Here we are talking about a small group of children, but on the other hand we are talking about a very vulnerable group of children, because we are talking about the children in which one parent caused the death of the other parent. And there are unbelievably many different, but almost always unhappy stories behind this, from the husband who kills his wife to the wife who kills the husband sometimes through long violent relationships. Some children are caught up in this, and there has been a primacy that the present parent has been able to acquire custody of the child. It is not in all cases that this is the smartest thing to do, and that is why in practice it has also been the case that in many cases the biological parent has been disregarded and custody has been given to some others. But, of course, the primacy of legislation is not appropriate, so the legislation must be brought into line with what has actually proved to be the practice of taking a stand on the child and the child alone: what is best for the child? That is one part of the draft law, and we think it is entirely appropriate. The second part, which is quite small, but also very important, is that there has not been automaticity in raising matters. In other words, there is a situation in which one parent has been killed by the other parent and no one outside has volunteered and said that he would like to be the one who takes responsibility for the child. Then there has just been the biological parent who has killed the other, who still has custody. And there is therefore the automatic fact that when the police receive cases of this nature, they start a case to find out and determine whether there is anyone who could take custody of the child and who would be better at it than the remaining parent. So all in all, we think you hit this incision really well. We have also had very thorough discussions on these very unfortunate matters, where some children are in an incredibly unhappy situation, but they will also get into trouble if we do not have proper legislation. And I would just like to say that some of what I admire is that, despite the fact that the legislation has not actually been appropriate, it has, in my opinion, managed to make the right decisions. We were given a review of the cases that have been in this area, and it is to the credit of the people who work in the field. I think that is something that should be remembered from time to time from the platform of the Things. As I see it, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114132555	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114132601	Thank you. As a starting point, we in the Folketing are making legislation and political agreements based on the conviction that it will improve some given areas. It may also happen that even with more recent legislation in hand you can see that there is something that has not been adequately taken into account, and if so, we, as legislator, must, of course, correct it so that it will work as intended and so that it is for the good of the citizens. I am sure that when the parental responsibility law was created, when there was also broad political support for making this law in the family law field, there was a perception that this would be the foundation for many years to come. In fact, I believe it is, and I believe it has been, but some adjustments have had to be made. There is also the proposal that we are debating today. Unfortunately, the reason for changing section 15, which deals with custody in the event of death, is some sad circumstances. It may be difficult to understand how a person who has loved another person with whom he has had a child may end up killing him or her. It is as horrible as anything can be, especially because there are survivors, for example. close relatives, and there may also be children who have to live with a grief and a lack and a certainty of what has happened. No matter how terrible it is, and no matter what the reasons for the action are, there must be a legal authority which clearly knows how to deal with the matter. And when it comes to custody, it is always important that a decision is made on the basis of what is best for the child. A definition of what the child's best is can be difficult to make, because we may sometimes have different perceptions of it, but it must always be a concrete and individual assessment that underpins it. This has not always been clear enough, and that is why the child's perspective needs to be strengthened, and it must be so that the state administration checks what is best for the individual child. In order for this to happen, it is necessary to amend the law in order to derogate from the statutory preference of the survivor in situations where one parent has caused the death of the other parent. There is no doubt that whatever is at the root of a homicide is a very vulnerable situation for the child. There will never be any doubt that the surviving parent is a parent, but questions may be raised as to whether he is the right person to carry out the parental responsibility. If he or she is not given this task of authority, he or she may, again if it is considered to be best for the child, continue to have contact with the child. For the Danish People's Party it is very important that if the child is able to be involved in the decision as to whether it is best to maintain this contact, then it must be done and if the child wants to be contacted, it must be possible to do so. It may also be that the child does not benefit from, for example. to visit a prison, and if so, it shall not take place, even if the survivor so wishes. The Danish People's Party, as we have said many times, including from this platform, is very concerned in the field of family law about how the network can be involved in order to ensure a good upbringing for children. And it is very important that we look here at the opportunities that lie in the network. As regards the obligation to care for a child who has been exposed to the loss of a parent because the other has committed a murder, it is very important to focus on ensuring that it is met. If it can be dealt with by close family members, it will be advisable, but if it is not possible, because it is not for the child's good, then there must be a different decision, and every decision must and must always be made on an adequate basis, as has, of course, been clarified in this draft law. It is important to make it clear that this change of law is not impossible for the surviving parent to acquire custody. It may in some cases be that it is actually best for the child, and the reason for the killing may have been to protect the child. It is always special when it comes to making such legislation on a sad basis, but it may be necessary. I also know that it is very sensitive when discussing such things, but I think that when we have done this, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, we have had some very intense discussions on it, and I think that we have at least made a very good step in the right direction, and that is why the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133010	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133025	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to deal first with L 76, which deals with a change in the parental responsibility law and the social services law. The bill is the implementation of the political agreement of 9 September 2015 between the Government and all parties in the Folketing. However, tragic circumstances are at the root of the draft law. The proposal is the result of a popular and political wonder after a 39-year-old woman was killed by her ex-husband in 2014, after which the ex-husband was given custody of the couple's two sons. So far it has been the case that Article 15 of the Parental Responsibility Act states that parents are initially granted parental rights, even if one parent has caused the death of the other parent. This has meant that the remaining parent almost per year. automatics has been given custody. That's what we're gonna do today. This bill removes the priority in legislation so that the State Administration will make a concrete assessment of whether it would be best for the child that the longest-lived parent has custody or whether it would benefit the child in the future if a third party were to be given responsibility. It should be added, however, that parenthood is maintained in cases where one of the parents dies of natural causes or due to an accident. However, the sharpening of the law does not mean that murderers per. Automatically loses custody. All cases must be assessed and there may be cases where it is in the best interests of the child that the remaining parent is given custody. However, it is up to the State Administration to provide thorough case information and to clarify all the relevant facts of the case and on this basis to decide who is to be given custody. It is important for all parties to agree that this bill makes it clear that the basic principle of the law is that all decisions on parental responsibility must be made in the best interests of the child, including when deciding on parental responsibility in cases where one parent has caused the death of the other parent. We have secured this with this bill. The draft law also provides for the possibility of transferring custody to a cohabiting couple and for the state administration, after the death of a parent, to give custody to a cohabiting couple. This equality between couples living together with spouses brings the rules into line with the rules applicable to couples living together in the field of family law. In conclusion, this draft law, in short, ensures that the best interests of the child come before Mom and Dad's claim to custody, and therefore the Left votes in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133330	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Skipper, to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133334	As others have already said from this platform, in 2014 there was a very, very horrible and scary case that the media told us about. A woman had been killed by her husband in a bestially manner, and as the explanations of what had happened, the man, who was also the father of her two children, had even driven the children in the back seat and the killed one in the trunk. It was by no means nice reading over the morning coffee, not at all. The reason the case got so much attention was that the murderer, who had been convicted, had been given custody of the two children, because the legislation was in fact still away so that it happened automatically when one parent had caused the death of the other parent. Yes, it did not happen automatically, but there should be good reasons for depriving the surviving parent of custody. I am generally opposed to such individual legislation. But this is certainly not a matter of individual legislation either. It is a matter that has brought to our attention a general problem. It is therefore not the case that we are now turning around and saying that just because one parent has caused the death of the other parent, it can never happen that this parent is given custody of the children and that it can never be the best thing for the child to stay with the surviving parent. On the contrary, this bill takes very good account of the fact that we do not, in the context of the parental responsibility law, make criminal policy. This is something we do in relation to the criminal code, where we decide how to punish if you commit crime, including if you kill your partner or spouse. In the context of the Parental Responsibility Act, we must decide what is best for children. Therefore it will now be the case that what is the starting point is what is best for the child, and it must always be assessed. It is also not very difficult to imagine and it has also happened in Denmark that there are women who, after years of mental and physical terror, have killed their partner or spouse, who is also the father of her children. This has happened before, and it does not necessarily mean that it is bad for those children to stay with that woman. Therefore, it is so important that we now also get this part of the parental responsibility law updated and very clearly said that whatever has happened and what the criminal law says the consequences of it should be, we need to make a specific decision on what the best for a child or some children is after they have been through something that, whatever the circumstances, must be very, very terrible for children to experience. At the same time, there is the second part, which has also been mentioned by several speakers, namely that the draft law also provides for equal treatment of spouses. And it is probably not so much more than a natural update in a modern world that being together or having said yes and amen, or whatever you do, is, of course, the same when it comes to whether you are a family and love your children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133702	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133708	Thank you. In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I have to say that we support this bill. When a parent causes the death of the other parent and legal decisions are made on custody, this bill, as has already been mentioned many times, makes it clear that the starting point must always be the child's best interests. Specifically, this is done by deleting the priority for the surviving after the death of the surviving parent. In doing so, the State administration must at all times verify what is best for the child. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that this should always be the case, and that is why we welcome the political agreement that has been reached and which this legislative proposal is putting into effect. As I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133800	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133806	I think that the history of this bill, the perspectives and the content has already been excellently explained by the rapporteurs across the Chamber, so I will be very brief. In the alternative, we believe that, in every conceivable situation, we must always verify what is best for the child, so we are in favour of the child's best interests. Therefore, we certainly also believe that when one parent has caused the death of another, the best interests of the child should also apply here. You should not be given priority over custody if you have killed the other parent. On the other hand, it is good that cases of this type are in future assessed and verified in the State administration. At the same time, we think it is wise that, should this bill be adopted, cohabitants should be treated equally with married couples in matters of parental responsibility. So the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133856	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. So it is the rapporteur of the SF, Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114133903	Thank you. Sometimes we in the Parliamentary Assembly have to deal with legislative proposals that affect very few people, and I would say fortunately in relation to this bill. We are talking about cases where one of the most serious family tragedies takes place, namely that one parent causes the death of the other parent, thereby depriving the child of his closest caregiver and associate. This is a serious failure of the child and the surviving parent should therefore no longer have a legal advantage over custody. Instead, it should be a concrete assessment of what is best from the child's perspective and best interests in relation to parental responsibility. At the same time, the bill also provides for the equality of married and cohabiting couples, so that the possibility of taking over custody does not depend on marriage, but on caring for the child. The SF supports this bill, which is the implementation of a political agreement between all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114134009	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114134014	Let me start by saying a lot of thanks to the whole range of rapporteurs who have given very, very clear support to this bill. And it is quite true that fortunately it is not a legislative proposal that affects a lot of people, but it is an important legislative proposal. I also think it is appropriate to mention the very constructive yet rapid process that we have been through, to which all the parties have contributed, in relation to reaching this agreement in order to resolve an important issue. It is important that we can find out something like this, and it is, of course, for the sake of the children affected. I have also noted in this connection that, throughout the consultation process which has obviously preceded the first reading here, various associations and organisations have stated that it is indeed a good job that we have done and that it is a job that will benefit those children who unfortunately experience losing a parent in this way. There should be no doubt in the legislation that the child's best is paramount in matters of custody at death, and this was also at the heart of our discussions. The amendment of the law here must, of course, make it quite clear what is governing matters. If one parent causes the death of the other parent, in each case, as several of the rapporteurs have said, a specific assessment must be made as to whether it would be best for the child to have custody of the longest living or whether the best thing for the child is for a third child to be responsible. There should no longer be a legal preference here for the surviving parent. At the same time, of course, we stick to parenthood when one of the parents dies of an illness or dies of an accident. Of course, if you lived before the death with the family and you shared custody of the child, the surviving parent simply retains custody. In this situation, the child did not live with the surviving person and, for example, seeks. Of course, a substitute for custody must continue to be included in the assessment that this is the child's only remaining parent. With this proposal, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, we will also ensure the equality of couples living together with spouses, so that custody can be transferred not only to spouses but also to couples living together. In this way, the rules are brought into line with the rules which we also have in relation to couples living together in the field of family law. And I am very pleased that we also got into the discussions and can take that into account here. I will, of course, be available if there are any questions in the course of the committee's proceedings and if there are things that you want to clarify further. But here and now I would like to thank you for the clear statement that there is full support from the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114134316	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be passed on to the Committee on Social Affairs and Internal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160114134335	There is therefore no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 15 January 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
